i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-3	Madam President, I would like For time winning, I only ask for reservation No 1, but we Moderates naturally support all our reservations. Madam President, I would like The motion for a resolution we are discussing now covers a very wide range of areas, including civil committee measures. I was going to briefly review the four reservations that we from the Moderates have on a number of different issues. Our first reservation deals with the fact that foreclosure of movable property such as jewellery, cash, cars and more today may be done by the Swedish Enforcement Authority or through the agency by means of so-called distance measurement. It has turned out that it is not always possible to carry out these distance measurements. The consequence of this may be that if the police stop a criminally charged and indebted person with a valuable car, you cannot take care of the car. Both the Police Authority and the Enforcement Authority have paid attention to the need for a change of legislation and pointed out that a change in the law could lead to much more property being foreclosed. We believe it is important for society to send a signal to the members of the criminal gangs that their lifestyle does not pay off in the long run. That is why we want to see an amendment to the legislation so that the Swedish Enforcement Authority can carry out distance measurement in far more cases than is possible today. Madam President, I would like Our second reservation is with the Centers, Liberals and Christian Democrats. It is about the urgent question of shortening the overall period of over-indebtedness of debtors, so that they can become economically rehabilitated as quickly as possible and return to a more normal social life. It is better to be relieved of debt quickly than to be offered time-free periods during debt restructuring. Furthermore, we say that the regulatory framework for debt restructuring should be fair and predictable. In this context, Madam President, we believe that, as a general rule, the payment plan should be set at three years instead of five. As I said before, there is no reason, moreover, to allow two months a year to be free of payment. Another moderate reservation concerns the budget and debt counselling services of municipalities, which play an important role in debt restructuring. The fact that the municipalities' obligation to provide budget and debt counselling has been clarified is something we welcome, but we believe that this should be regulated in the Debt Reduction Act and not in the Social Services Act. Supervisory responsibility should be transferred to the Swedish Consumer Agency, which already today, Madam President, has the task of supporting budget and debt counselling. Furthermore, we note that access to fast credit has never been greater than today, which unfortunately also means that over-indebtedness is increasing. A strategy against over-indebtedness must therefore also include measures at an upstream level that make over-indebtedness never a reality. We believe that the debt restructuring institution should be made more accessible to people who really need it and for whom a debt restructuring process would open a way out of the debt trap. We therefore propose that municipal budget and debt counselling be given a clearer mandate, so that it can get into the process earlier and thus help individuals to get out of over-indebtedness early. A maximum queue period should be introduced to be assisted by the municipal budget and debt counselling. The possibility for ordinary creditors in the market to offer remediation loans is also something that we believe should be investigated. Madam President, I would like We also believe that the government should return to Parliament with proposals for measures to strengthen public support in order to improve debt restructuring. Our last reservation is about corporate reconstruction. Business restructuring legislation is important for more companies to have a second chance. In our opinion, a company which is deemed to be able to survive in the long term but which has been more or less temporarily in difficulty in payment should also be able to be reconstructed instead of going bankrupt. Business reorganisation is therefore a way of reducing the risk of failure, but the possibility is not used to a very large extent. In order for more critical companies to make use of corporate restructuring and to increase the number of successful resolution operations, creditors need to have confidence in the institution. If this is our last reservation in the report, Madam President.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-14	Madam President, I would like A basic factor in feeling safe and healthy is having sufficient finances to have food for the day and shelter over your head. Long - term debt is so high that you can't handle the most basic or something a little extra sometimes toils on people, and their health deteriorates. To get into debt can be done by a lot of people. It's not just about being sloppy. Many of those in debt are affected by a longer period of sick leave, unemployment or divorce. It may be that the company you started did not carry wings or that you made a bad housing purchase. It may take many years to pay their debts, and sometimes new loans are needed to pay the first debt. Madam President, I would like Today there are many people who have been heavily in debt since the 1990s and who have lived on the poverty line since then. They're having a very hard time getting out of their debt. Children in these families are at risk of not being able to participate in any leisure activities, which in turn can lead to poor health and ill health. For some years now, the number of people entitled to deleveraging has increased, and that is a good thing. It is good when people are helped to get back on their feet and get an ekonomi that bears the necessary expenses. We want it to be simple, and the changes that have taken place have made it easier. However, it is important to follow so that we get what we are asking for. It should not be easy to have your debts written off, but it is incredibly important that those who are over-indebted and have been it for a long period get support to come back to a life where they can manage food for the day and shelter over their heads. Madam President, I would like I think the Moderates have a point when it comes to the need to increase the budget and debt counselling of municipalities. It is important for people to get help, hopefully before it has gone as far as debt restructuring. Where responsibility should lie for this we can discuss more. I want to see it in a holistic way and am not entirely convinced that the best solution is to transfer responsibility to another entity. Many of those who suffer from debt do so by other things in life happening, such as division of property, unemployment, sick leave, and more. Being in charge of social services can bring benefits when looking at the life situation of the whole family. But as I said, we can discuss this more. Once you have taken the step of applying for debt restructuring and it has been granted after an investigation, I and the Center Party believe that it is important that it is quick to get its financial rehabilitation. We do not see anything positive about continuing to drag on on something that has been going on for many years. The children in these families are worth getting back to life in a short time where debts do not overwhelm everything. Since 2016, when the new deleveraging act was adopted, five years – with the possibility of some non-payment months – is the rule for deleveraging. The Center Party thinks it's too long. We want it to go faster. It is important to help the person get on his feet as soon as possible. We recommend that it be a general payment plan of three years instead of five. Here I want to ensure the focus of man to once again be able to cope with the basic security with a sufficient economy to have food for the day and shelter over his head and to be able to treat themselves to something extra. Madam President, I would like Sweden is dependent on entrepreneurs and innovators. Without the companies, Sweden stays. I therefore welcome the fact that the new legislation makes it possible to obtain help with debt restructuring, even if it is for business reasons that debts have arisen. In the event that the debts have become personal due to F-tax companies or that there are still debts after reorganisations and bankruptcies, this may be a basis for debt restructuring. It is important that innovators dare to invest in their business ideas in Sweden so that we can continue to have a growth in jobs, which gives increased tax revenues to school, health care and care. This is possible today thanks to the initiative of the Alliance Government in 2013. I would like to express my support for reservation No 3.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-23	Madam President, I would like Our economic decisions in life can be lucky but also the most disastrous thing we can do. Sometimes you are quite responsible for bad decisions yourself and sometimes there may be circumstances that make you have to make them. Yet you will have to live with them. Being in financial distress is extremely difficult for all of us. The fact that the economic situation becomes so difficult that you get a salary foreclosed means that you put yourself not only in a difficult situation but also the family you have. The amount of the reservation should then ensure that you can live reasonably normal and have the basic security pure oak unnomical that we all need. In these contexts, the amount of the reserve should be so large that you can live a normal life with your loved ones. Those who may be closest to you and who are directly affected are your children. They live with the decisions you make as a parent. An especially difficult situation is for those who do not live with their children but have regular association. Today, visiting parents with a salary foreclosure may have to refrain from meeting their children for financial reasons, since the costs of dealing with children are not taken into account in the wage foreclosure procedure. It is not in the child's interest for parenting to be limited in this way. As a parliament, we should protect children as far as we can. The fact that one parent must refrain from seeing his children because of the economic situation should be something we want to avoid in a reflex way. According to an authorisation, the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten annually issues regulations on determining the amount of the reservation in connection with the attachment of wages and salaries and more. The Swedish Enforcement Authority also issues general advice on determining the amount of the reservation. According to these advice, no additional amount should be added to the normal amount for the costs of dealing with children who do not live permanently with the debtor. For me it should be obvious that these advice should include an addition to the normal amount so that you can afford to see your children regularly for the sake of the children. The Supreme Court has decided in a court case in 2015 whether costs incurred in connection with a child's regular stay with a parent should be taken into account when calculating the reserve amount for salary measurement. According to the Court, when determining the amount of the reservation, account should be taken of the fact that children who do not reside permanently with the debtor also belong to their family. Costs arising from the child's recurrent presence with the parent cannot be considered to be included in the normal amount for adults. According to the Court, therefore, it is appropriate to take into account costs which are fixed at a flat-rate amount which depend on the extent of the visit. The Court's decision is in line with our request, that is to say that one should not have to refrain from seeing one's children for economic reasons. It is important for children to meet their parents, and we have to start from that. There is also an investigation from 2016 that has proposed this. I therefore have very little sympathy for the fact that the government has not put forward any proposals on this. The Supreme Court has established this, and there is an investigation that already in 2016 has given the government the necessary evidence. My question then is: do you not want to? Does the government consider that both parents are not as important? Is the rights of the child so far down the priority that it is thought that it can wait a few more years? Furthermore, as onions on salmon, Parliament is rejecting a motion which proposes this particular amendment, which I find incomprehensible. I think the only right thing for the children's sake is to make it easier for the visiting parents by including these costs in the reserve amount. In the same spirit, it is quite obvious that the over-indebtedness period of those who have come so far below them should be shortened. The main rule should be three years instead of five years. For a person with these financial problems, three years is a very long period. But it is short enough for the person to see the goal and be able to come out on the other side and live a normal one again. When a person has come so far into the economic situation, it is important to see the light in the tunnel. We Christian Democrats believe that three years instead of five years will help with this and will allow for a better outcome in the long term so that people can go back to normal life. I therefore support reservations 3 and 9.
i-GJRu27e2iQhqQCKF1HxdXo	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the civil committee's report CU6 Compensation and Insolvency Law. I would first of all like to support the committee's proposal in the report. I would like to start by talking about one of the most central parts of the report. It's about over-indebtedness. It is not only people who have made bad private economic decisions and who have over-consumed who are affected by this. Everyone could end up in debt. Many times it happens when life changes. You may lose your job, fall ill or have a divorce. These very reasons are very common. The consequences of these events can lead to a crisis not only for you but also for your economy. It is a major social problem, and we need to work extensively on measures to get to grips with this. We must be able to help people who are in a vulnerable situation. First of all, we need to work preventively. That is why we Social Democrats are pushing for measures that affect economic security. It is good for the individual, and it also counteracts the indebtedness of society. That is one of the reasons why, for example, we increased child benefit during the last parliamentary term. In the near future, it is worth mentioning the January agreement which abolishes the unfair pensioner tax in 2020. That politics does what it can to ensure that everyone has a decent economic life, even if life changes drastically, counteracts indebtedness. However, for those who are still in over-indebtedness, we have improved the way out of that situation and want to continue to do so. As I mentioned earlier, the problems that have led to debt are sometimes more important than the debts themselves when deciding on debt adjustment. Sickness, divorce and unemployment are factors that today increase your chances of getting help. As of 1 November 2016, new rules on debt restructuring apply. The enforcement officer will now inform debtors who have been executed through the enforcement code that help is available, and they will know that they can turn to the municipality's budget and debt advice. It is also made clear in the new Act that municipalities have an obligation to provide budget and debt counselling to debtors. This has made it easier for people to apply for and undergo debt restructuring. According to Kronofogden's statistics, the number of debt restructuring applications has increased considerably since the introduction of the new debt restructuring act. The number of applications has increased from over 12,000 per year in 2016 to over 19,000 in 2017 and 18,000 in 2018. Madam President, I would like I visited the budget and debt counselling service in my municipality of Östhammar on Monday. There are great improvements after the new law came into force. It is easier for citizens to apply, and it is quicker to get started with debt restructuring. More than in the past are able to handle the application, and the non-payment months are perceived as a great advantage, not least for families with children. I have now spoken about debt restructuring as a way out of over-indebtedness. But many indebted people are not involved in debt restructuring, but they go for several years under wage foreclosure and live on the poverty line to get rid of their debts. It is therefore important that we look at how we can make their situation and their families a little more bearable. The enforcement investigation has submitted its report. It proposes changes that are positive for those under wage foreclosure. Among other things, it is proposed to increase the normal and reserve amounts for families with children. The obligation to take into account the best interests of the child and the principle of proportionality is enshrined in law. The procedure is becoming more legal and even more modern. Madam President, I would like The report also deals with the high-profile issue of vehicle goaltenders. The statistics of the Swedish Enforcement Authority show that a year ago there were about 100 vehicle goaltenders who accounted for SEK 400 million in vehicle debts. The investigation memo on measures to access vehicle goaltenders was completed in July and is now being referred and further prepared within the Government Office. The amendment to the Act on the Moving of Vehicles is found to have had an impact, and the memorandum proposes a number of improvement measures in this area. Among other things, a ban on the use of vehicles with unpaid parking errors of SEK 5 000 should be introduced together with a possibility for the police to de-sign such a vehicle. In addition, the police should be given more scope to intervene against vehicles with vehicle-related debts. Among other things, the police should be given greater opportunities to take care of vehicles and destroy vehicles of small value. The work on getting to grips with the problem of vehicle goaltenders is therefore under way. The government has also taken other measures pending legislation. Among other things, SEK 25 million is allocated annually in 2018 – 2020 to the municipalities in order to handle the scrapping and removal of cars. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to follow up on a previous announcement made by the committee concerning the removal of illegal settlements. The Government has carried out work to follow up the legislative changes in this area and has also given a mandate to the Swedish Enforcement Authority and the Police Authority. The applicant's liability for basic fees in cases of removal has been limited to a maximum of SEK 3 000, and the basic fee for the enforcement of a removal is now SEK 300. According to the Swedish Enforcement Authority, the rules on removal have meant a better adapted process that in a simpler, cheaper and more legally secure way allows landowners to regain their land. The enforcement authority considers that the intentions of the legislation have had a clear impact on the practical application. The government parties, made up of the Social Democrats and the Green Party, have taken a number of initiatives in the area dealt with in the report in recent years, and we look forward to working on reducing social indebtedness. We do this because it is something that is good for the individual's well-being, but it is also important for people to be able to participate fully in our society.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-46	Madam President, I would like I have a few questions, or rather a question and a statement, regarding Sanne Lennström's speech. Firstly, I wonder how 65 billion in tax increases in previous mandates have helped over-indebted people. It would be interesting to have a comment on this, especially when reference is made to the January agreement, where taxes are reduced only for the richest in Sweden. Secondly, I have a question that is really about one of what we have seen gets many people into the debt trap, namely the sale of tickets by telephone. We've already tightened up the phone sales. But here the Social Democrats wanted to make an exception for the lottery sales. We know that online lottery sales are a safe way of getting people into a debt trap, but here the Social Democrats wanted an exception. It was something that we ran over in committee. We note that the Social Democrats have their own lottery, where they are very successful when it comes to selling lottery tickets by telephone. So, if you are to be mean, it is not surprising that the Social Democrats want an exception for this very thing. I would like to ask the question: how do you comment on this in this context? Why can we not now ban the sale of tickets by telephone from an over-indebtedness point of view?
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-50	Madam President, I would like Mats Green points to something important. Gambling policy is important when discussing things like over-indebtedness. This was a question that was discussed at Parliament's Question Time last week, which I do not know if Mats Green followed. This question was then put to Mr Ardalan Shekarabi, who is Minister of Civil Affairs. He explained that it is important to make demands on gambling; they should not lead to people becoming over-indebted. This is why we have a new gaming team from 1 January to counteract overexposure of advertising and other things. The advertising shall be moderate. High demands are now being placed on the gaming industry that they should not have the kind of gambling advertising they have today. Question was also asked to Ardalan Shekarabi regarding lottery tickets. He said, of course, we should set high standards for lotteries, just like any other game.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-53	Madam President, I would like Thank you, that was probably an answer to some question, but that was not the answer to my question. When we have discussed the Gaming Investigation and we have raised the issue of telephone sales of lottery tickets, we have always been told: No, it does not belong in the Gaming Investigation, but it is in consumer law under the Civil Affairs Committee. And when we have discussed the issue in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, we have been told: No, it should not be dealt with by us, but it takes the Gaming Investigation. All this has been done to obtain an exception for a Social Democratic lottery sale. It is a lottery sale that has been criticised in very sharp terms and from a number of consumer protection organisations. I have to say that I have full respect for the commitment of Sanne Lennström, but it is a hypocrisy of the Social Democratic Party. When it comes to income for the Social Democratic Party Treasury, there is absolutely no problem whatsoever in putting consumer protection on an exception. It simply seems to be okay, Madam President.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-56	Madam President, I would like I can only point out once again that the issue was raised at Question Time and that our party has no intention whatsoever of exempting our own lotteries from the legislation. High demands must be made regardless of what it is about. This is not about parties or their own interests, but about the well-being of the citizens.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-57	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I discussed a lot about the allowance and what applies if you do not live with your child and still have continuous association. It is not included in the reserve amount, which allows people to refrain from having relations with their children. Nevertheless, I would like to believe that the Social Democrats share my view, that is to say that it is unfortunate if a parent is allowed to refrain from associating with his children for economic reasons. Now, however, we have a situation in which the Supreme Court has taken a decision, and as I said, we have an investigation from 2016 into what this might look like. Yet there has been no proposal. In my speech, I put the question to the government: do you not want this, or do you not prioritise it? My question to the Social Democrats is: Which of these conditions is correct?
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-60	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder is absolutely right. Of course, one should give priority to the parents' association with their children. That's why we've had the investigation that Larry Söder mentions, a more modern enforcement procedure. In the investigation, there are exactly the suggestions Larry makes. It is simply a matter of taking into account the costs of dealing with children in wage-earning procedures. There are many texts that can be attributed to what Larry said in his speech. This is an extensive investigation. It not only covers what we are discussing now, but it is an investigation which, as I understand it, consists of three bands. It was completed in 2016. It took a year to refer it because there were so many referrals. Then there was simply no time before the elections. It was also a very long time before we got a government in place after the elections. I believe and expect that my government will now give priority to this issue. It is important for parents and children to have time together.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-63	Madam President, I would like It is nice to hear that we have the same idea of the issue in essence, that is, that children should actually be able to meet their parents. From the child's perspective, it's the very best. However, I am not satisfied with the answer. The report had been submitted in 2017, we are now in 2019 and they have still not delivered any proposal. I cannot interpret it in any other way than to give priority to other issues, which I find boring. The children are important. We will soon have a Convention on the Rights of the Child in place in the Swedish Parliament, and I am thinking about how the government thinks this rhymes with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I do not think this is something that rhymes with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I am not really happy that the Social Democrats are saying that the bill will hopefully come. We have received the bill list for the spring, and there is no such list. I am therefore sceptical that this is a priority for the government. Now, of course, there is also a 73-point programme to be implemented with the cooperation parties, which I believe will bring this issue even further down. If there has been no proposal on this issue in September 2019, can we not agree to write a joint motion in which we ensure that we put even more pressure on the government with an announcement that the government must do so?
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-67	Madam President, I would like It should also be mentioned that although this investigation was completed in 2017, it was in November 2017, i.e. quite close to the election. Until we have legislation in place, there is also the ruling from the Supreme Court in 2015, I think, as Larry mentioned earlier and also following the intentions that Larry outlined, that is, that children should be able to socialize with their parents even in such a situation. I think the question is very important. I can give Larry my word that the government parties will follow it very closely. So we will come back to it.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-70	Madam President, I would like How many car collectors are there in Sweden? The question is justified when you see how many people own really many cars in Sweden. Many people own hundreds and sometimes thousands of cars, and it is more the rule than the exception that the cars are also associated with debts and unpaid taxes and charges. Had it really been a question of car collectors doing the right thing and caring for their cars, it would not have been a problem, but now it is not. We believe that it is necessary for the government to act forcefully and as quickly as possible to prevent them from continuing their criminal activities. There is an investigation that proposes some measures, and at the same time, cooperation between authorities such as the municipality, the police and the enforcement authority has led to bankruptcy, seizure of cars and enforcement of fines. Despite this, the car goalkeepers phenomenon does not disappear, even though, for example, newly issued fines have been reduced. If you only look at the 30 who own the most cars in Sweden today, you can see that they are added about eight cars every day – still. More action is therefore needed. We do not understand that it should be so impossible to prevent people who are clearly using our system from continuing to do so. It must be possible to access arrangements designed to escape liability and deliberately defraud the State of taxes and charges. The measures proposed by the investigator should be introduced as soon as possible, both a modified registration procedure and a ban on use and increased possibilities for the police to intervene. The society we have is based on the fact that all people are good and want to do the right thing. For this very reason, we are faced with problems when individuals do not want to do the right thing. It would be better to build a society on the basis that people do not want to comply with the rules and create clear consequences for those who then violate the intended rules. First, you can have laws and rules that capture those who exploit them. However, the problem of individuals who do not behave is harmful to the whole of society, as this spreads like decay among apples. A healthy society does not allow anyone who owns thousands of cars and has millions in debt to continue buying more cars. A healthy society has authorities that react much earlier. In some other countries, if you start to have an abnormally large number of cars, you get easy visits from the authorities. Then we're not talking about hundreds. We're talking about five or six. Not because the cars themselves are illegal, but because they want to check that the cars are kept in a good way, that they do not take up parking spaces for others and that there is no illegal rental of the cars. If you have that control, of course, you don't need a maximum number of cars you own, but surely the authorities should be able to prevent more cars being set up on someone who is involved in criminal activities. There is a need for strong action against those who misbehave. We expect the government to now demonstrate its ability to act, even if our experience is the opposite. Sanne Lennström from the Social Democrats just mentioned this in her speech, so hopefully something might happen – in a few years or so. Finally, Madam President, I would like to comment on reservation 3 of the report, which deals with debt restructuring. It is a reservation from the previous Alliance, which wants to reduce the duration of the payment plan from five years to three years when debt adjustment is carried out. It may sound like a very nice and grateful proposal for those who have ended up in a difficult situation, but what one does not think of is that such a reduction would affect the ordinary borrower. After all, it is not for us in the state to pay the difference. The person who pays the difference is the ordinary Svensson who has borrowed money with the intention of paying back his loan. The usual Svensson will get an increased interest rate. The usual Svensson will find it more difficult to borrow. Of course, creditors must protect their loans, and it will be more difficult for them to get the money back if time is shortened. They will then get a smaller share of the money back during the deleveraging process. They sit all the time and count on this: A certain number of their customers will end up in debt restructuring, and then they get less of the money back. In practice, because it is already difficult to borrow and is now even more difficult, it is only the person who already has money or assets who has the opportunity to borrow money. If you need money, you don't get any loans or credit. Then someone might think: Yes, but there is not so much difference, five years or three years. And in the five years, there are also a couple of month-free months each year. The difference is between 36 and 50 months. So there is a difference of 28%. For me, there's a pretty big difference. In addition, one might ask whether there should be no differences of any kind between different cases. Tell him I'm an entrepreneur who goes bankrupt because of things I might not be able to control myself. Perhaps the one I deliver to goes bankrupt, which in turn means that I don't get any income, and so does my company. Should I not have any advantage over the individual who, knowingly or unconsciously but at least with an opportunity to avoid it, has put himself in a situation of debt? Entrepreneurs should have some form of better conditions and better rules. That is why we do not support reservation 3 but support the committee's proposal.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-84	Madam President, I would like For time winning, I only ask for reservation No 1, but we naturally support all our reservations on the part of the Moderates. Madam President, I would like Can you afford the unfair rents of the Moderates? This was the argument in the election movement during the previous year by the Social Democrats. The last two weeks before the elections, the Social Democratic election general Anders Ygeman decided to campaign only on this theme. The housing policy debate during the election movement was largely marked by the high tone of the Social Democrats and Tenants' Association regarding the Moderates' proposal to work for a better functioning rental market. None of these parties hesitated to slip on the truth and contribute a widespread smudge of obvious lies about the policy of the Moderates. It was smudged by claiming that there were proposals that did not exist and that they meant were about a rental shock. That the Moderates would have pushed for market rents in the existing rental market is a lie taken out of context. At the same time, they made their own proposals on how to solve the acute housing shortage and the problems of the dysfunctional housing market. The simple solution was to lie about the politics of others. When the fog after the election movement has disappeared and a new government has taken office, the situation is suddenly different. It is the directly opposite, Madam President. The Social Democrats, together with their partners, have agreed to introduce free renting in newly built rental apartments. The opposite is a fact and cuts right through the systematic smear campaign that was conducted side by side with the Tenant Association just a few months ago. Hypocrisy knows no bounds, Madam President. The unserious twitchiness of the Social Democrats in housing policy does not contribute to the joint effort needed between parties to overcome the problems in the Swedish housing market. One moment running campaigns full of lies and then wanting to implement proposals that we just thought would be a killing of tenants is disrespectful to voters and is basically something that seriously damages political debate and confidence in politics. In an article in the journal Hem & Hyra you can read about how the Tenants' Association has decided to demonstrate against the Social Democrats when they hold their large party congress in Conventum in Örebro. The Tenants' Association says this: We want to show the Social Democratic Party that there is an incredible frustration and anger after the failed election promise. The party was only a few months earlier very clear that they will never introduce market rents. That's why this is bad, really bad. Now the Social Democrats will be standing here with a heel kick – a rather happy one – saying: Now we are taking responsibility for the country! With that argument, you will be able to dismiss just every election promise and just every breast tone that you have gone to elections in the last hundred years in Sweden. If someone else and if the Moderates had done the same and said that we take responsibility for Sweden in one way or another, Social Democrats would have stood and mocked their frustration, even if it had been false, in the pulpit of the Riksdag. I have a number of questions for your Social Democrats here in view of this. In view of all the breast tones and solemn promises made across the country in all contexts and at all political levels, I wonder: How does it feel now? I would also like to ask what benefits you see in this. What are the advantages of free leasing in new production and that the existing stock should also be targeted? We see advantages in the fact that this is now beginning to loosen up, but it would be interesting to hear what the Social Democrats see as the benefits of this because it is probably one of the government's main points and also something that Stefan Löfven began his government declaration by saying is one of the main reform proposals. It is interesting in the light of history – I could describe it in other words as well. I would like to know what benefits you see in all of this. The third question to which I would like answers is: how do you think this affects confidence in politics? I know, once again, what you will say: we take responsibility for the country. Point. But how do you think it will affect politics when you so obviously go to elections on something and then not only accept something else but you are going to do the opposite? I can stand here and list all the comments and senders of Social Democrats on this issue, and now you are doing exactly what you promised your constituents that you would never do. I would like some answers from the Social Democrats on these three questions.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-96	Madam President, I would like Today we will discuss a number of different motions concerning, among other things, tenancy issues. I can begin by stating what the development in Sweden looks like. If we look at the population increase in Sweden, we see that the population has increased from 9 to 10 million inhabitants over the past 13 years. The population is estimated to increase from 10 to 11 million inhabitants over the next seven years. This, of course, leads to a long-term outlook in the area of housing policy in order to ensure that the necessary building is built. This has not been done so far or seems to be possible in the future. In view of today's situation, which will probably continue, I come to the motion in this bloc by the Swedish Democrats on overcrowding. The Swedish democrats have exercised to make it legally possible for housing companies to limit the number of people living in rental apartments. It is important because today there is no legal possibility in practice to actually restrict that possibility. We know what overcrowding brings, and it is about many areas. This entails costs for those who own housing, but also a deterioration in integration, more difficult homework, black rental contracts and many social, economic and other consequences. Many measures are needed there. There's a report on the area from Boverket. It is today at the Government Office where you should look at it. I hope that the government will also come up with proposals. Instead, the government has come up with proposals for EBO. There is nothing involved in this report. But it is still affected in the motion that the Swedish democrats have tabled in relation to overcrowding. It is believed that there should be a check at EBO, which means that refugees in Sweden during the time they apply for asylum should have the opportunity to settle freely in Sweden, to leave their facility. In my opinion, the government's proposal can be rounded quite simply. Accommodation is arranged according to the requirements, and at a later stage the accommodation looks completely different. So there's a blow in the air. The Swedish Democrats believe that the EBO legislation must be completely demolished. In order to solve the problems that persist in terms of EBO legislation, overcrowding and population growth, while not building enough housing, a more controlled migration is of course crucial. Then we need to look at increased competition between construction companies. In this way, you can increase construction, reduce costs and get standardization, common building rules and coordinated construction of infrastructure with the other Nordic countries. There are things that could do so that we can get started on the construction properly. It would also enable more groups to take up the housing that is being built. Those who are primarily in need of housing are the young, the economically weak households and the new arrivals. In this situation, as the government wants to do, introducing free market rents is quite the wrong way to go. I don't understand how one can think that it will lead to more housing when those who need housing cannot pay the rent for them. But that's the government's solution. In addition, free market rents were strongly debated in the election campaign. The Social Democrats went out and falsely claimed that the Swedish Democrats want to introduce market rents in Sweden today. I have pointed out several times in the speaker's chair, in a variety of surveys, interviews and the like that the Swedish democrats are opposed to market rents. Yet they went out and said exactly the opposite in the election movement. It can be thought of, how you are prepared to take power in Sweden – to stand and lie to the voters about what other parties think and think, also in an issue where the Swedish Democrats are so clear. Madam President, I would like With those words, I would like to take this opportunity to support our reservation 19 on overcrowding. For time winning, I decline to grant reservation 26.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-108	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue that we are debating in this House today. It is an issue that has attracted great interest and caused great concern. The right to housing is a fundamental human right enshrined in the UN Declaration of Human Rights, as I have always said. It is rarely raised in this debate. Society has an explicit responsibility for housing supply. Of the form of government, Chapter 1. Section 2, it is clear that the general must in particular ensure the right to, among other things, housing. In reality, however, it looks different. More and more people are being denied the right to a home of their own, despite the clear wording of the form of government. In order to safeguard the right to housing, a new housing policy, a state social housing policy, is required, in which the state and municipalities take much greater responsibility. Madam President, I would like There is a lack of housing in the majority of the country's municipalities, especially in the metropolitan regions. Every day we witness the increase in homelessness and how low-income people, young people, families with children, pensioners and new arrivals are affected by the housing situation. In my own municipality, Malmö, we see families with children – children – becoming homeless. It cannot be reasonable in 2019 in Sweden, which is one of the richest countries in the world. Madam President, I would like The January agreement between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Liberals and the Center Party contains several reform proposals concerning the housing market. One of the proposals is to introduce free renting in new production, i.e. market rents. This is something that both the Social Democrats and the Green Party have opposed in the past. This is a problem. We all agree that there is a housing shortage. We see how it affects the freedom of the individual, the growth of the economy and the development of society in a negative direction. We also see that it leads to inequality, increased divides and segregation. Instead of taking responsibility and ensuring that people enjoy that right, we propose reforms that make it more difficult for people to enjoy this social right. A fundamental problem in the housing market is that many cannot afford to demand newly produced rental apartments. In order not to further strengthen the division of the rental market, both public utility and private housing companies need to push the rents of new production. The current rental system works well. It is a democratic system, what we call the Swedish model, where both parties can sit down and negotiate. The tenants are represented by the Tenant Association. Then there are those who build, F astigence owners. They sit down and discuss just what can be considered a reasonable rent. It is a democratic issue that everyone living in the country should be able to influence their living conditions. What is proposed is to remove the very democratic right of ordinary people to influence their living conditions and to give all power to property owners so that they can determine what rent is considered reasonable. It's like we don't know how the logic of capitalism works, like that venture capitalists should wake up some morning and say, "We feel sorry for these families with children and pensioners." That's why we're going to lower the rent so they can afford to live in these apartments. It has never happened and will never happen. The logic of capitalism is based on maximising profit, nothing else. We think that the current leasing system works well. This creates the conditions for reasonable rental development with fair rents and security for tenants. There is no reason to abandon the utility value system and introduce market rents. The presumption rent model makes it profitable to build new rental apartments. Property owners are paid for their costs and a reasonable return on their efforts. Neither construction companies nor real estate companies consider today's renting to be an obstacle to housing construction. They indicate quite different reasons, such as the costs of new production, the lack of buildable land, the high land price and the planning process. None of the companies states that market rents in new production would be a solution to the problems. Property owners themselves do not want market rents in new production. They believe that the current rental model is sufficient. Why introduce a system that the property owners themselves do not ask for? Why introduce a system that research has shown will not lead to increased production of rental rights? Why introduce a system that we know will lead to more homeless families with children, pensioners and low-income people? Why introduce a system that will prevent people from moving to where their education and jobs are? It is the same self-harming behaviour to want to force a reform on the Swedish people that we know will bring terrible consequences to people. Because that's what it is. Madam President, I would like The housing shortage is not due to current rental arrangements. The housing shortage is due to a variety of things, such as high building costs, lack of buildable land and high land prices. In particular, the lack of housing is due to the lack of a government housing policy aimed at building more rental apartments with reasonable rents. In order to overcome the housing shortage, the State needs to take a much greater responsibility for financing new production, for example by increasing investment aid and offering top government loans. A changed leasing model with market rents will not contribute to increased production of rental rights. It's proven. Already today, many households find it difficult to ask for newly produced rental apartments. The rent is too high, and with market rents the rent level is further increased. As a result, even fewer can afford to demand newly produced rental apartments. Many apartments are likely to be empty. Market rents do not result in more rents and less housing shortages. Market rents only lead to higher rents, increased segregation and, by extension, social housing requirements for low-income households. The Left Party therefore proposes that there should be a government housing policy worthy of the name. It is time for a new housing policy in which the state, the municipality and the region take more responsibility and implement what is a statutory right for every person living in Sweden. We have a duty to this, and anything else would be unacceptable. Madam President, I would like I agree with all the Left Party reservations, but for time to come, I only agree to Left Party reservation 4.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-126	Madam President, I would like Today, there are far too few homes while the housing market has far too little mobility. I think we all agree on that. This also creates unhealthy markets within the tenancy part, such as black contracts. We have shown too little attention to these aspects, and I am glad that some of the motions are about that. We can discuss later how to curb black contracts. Anyone who currently lives at home with his parents or lives in a rental apartment and wants to buy a tenant-owner or a villa has enormous thresholds to overcome. Anyone who today wants to find their first place to live in a rental agreement has difficulty in finding someone. This is because it is built too little but also because others who want to move on to a tenant-owner or a villa cannot do so. Today, a household will be able to handle the KALP calculations if you want to borrow from a resident, which means that you will pass an interest rate of 7 – 8 per cent. One must also be able to amortise between 1 and 3 per cent of the loan per year and also be able to deposit at least 15 per cent of the down payment. For a household in Stockholm that will buy an apartment for SEK 3 million, this means that the bank must test the household for a housing expenditure of SEK 18 500, while the actual housing expenditure can be about SEK 8 500 or less. So there is a difference of 10 000 kroner a month, and that is something you have to do to borrow from an apartment. In addition, you must have almost half a million dollars in equity. This situation means that people get stuck in the accommodation they have, and anyone who wants to move to something else has no opportunity. We Christian Democrats have proposals such as rent purchases and housing savings that could solve some of the problems. This, together with the facilitation of credit restrictions, would open up the market. The reform of the leasing system carried out in 2011 has not worked as well as we all wanted. That can be said by each of us. Long and unpredictable negotiations create uncertainty about rental rights, and this affects construction. The attraction of owning a rental property is greatly reduced. Some property owners choose to transform the property into residential units. In new production, when the choice is between different types of leases, developers sometimes prefer the more profitable tenant-owners instead of rentals. The housing shortage in general and the lack of rental apartments in particular mean that people are forced to turn down study places and jobs. The housing shortage also hampers companies' ability to grow. The preferences that normally drive demand for housing and create mobility must not be reflected in renting, which in reality reduces access to rental housing. The January agreement contains a free lease in new production, which we Christian Democrats welcome. We think it is a good thing that social democrats and environmentalists have adopted an approach in which the housing market should be allowed to be more of a market. Free renting in new production could, in the long term, counteract the shortcomings that exist, promote the construction of more rents and strengthen the role of the housing form as the first dwelling. We are very pleased that the Social Democrats and the Green Party have studied this issue this autumn and concluded that it is a good solution for Sweden. A prerequisite for free leasing in new production is that the possession protection is strong and that the indexation of the rent is predictable over time for the hirer. I assume that the government is now speeding up its work in order to be able to return to Parliament with the necessary legislative changes to introduce free renting into new production, as there is now a broad majority in the Riksdag. Free leasing in new production should, in my opinion, be followed by a gradual adjustment of rental levels within the utility value system towards market values. There is a large group of low-paying people who are currently experiencing considerable difficulties in establishing themselves on the housing market. People with non-payment notes or who are not familiar with the labour market find it very difficult to get a first-hand contract. This group needs special attention in such an investigation. I would therefore like to try out the possibility of a larger proportion of housing in new production being set aside for social purposes. It should interest the government to take the necessary initiatives on this issue, as the need for housing for social purposes is increasing in the municipalities. There are currently no public rental statistics. The Christian Democrats' proposal for free renting in new production presupposes that possession protection is strong and that the indexation of rent is predictable over time. This also requires a public rental statistics that provide the parties with knowledge of what is reasonable rent level, which prevents the risk of usury. It is the government's task to consider and implement measures for improving rental statistics. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank It is quite clear to everyone who wants to see that the various credit restrictions that have been imposed over time are, in addition to the removal taxes, the biggest problem that we can tackle together in the short term. It is about making the market more market again, allowing the younger person to buy his or her home, families to make housing careers and eventually also the pensioner to sell off his or her home in order to re-move to a rental apartment. The measures in the credit restrictions may each look right and correct, but overall they have led to an overkill situation which has created major problems. We can discuss and change a lot, but if we do not solve this part, we will not have the mobility in the housing market that is needed for everyone to be able to get a home. I support reservations 11 and 31.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-143	Madam President, I would like I'm a social democrat. It is I because I believe that a free society is best created by people who are each other's equals. I believe that a society where everyone's rights and opportunities are respected is the best kind of society. For such a society to be possible, it's important, I think, that you don't make a difference between people and people. Everyone should have the right to a good education, everyone should have the right to a job and everyone should have the right to a good life. I am a social democrat because I believe that all people have an ability and a power. I believe that all people from the beginning have great potential and will. But as society today looks, where there is a great difference between people and people, there is grief, anger and suffering. Anyone who does not get a good education, the one who does not get a safe job to go to, the one who does not get a good cattle – excuse me, housing, not cattle; even if the Center now cooperates with us, we may not take it so far – or the one who happens to be born by the wrong parents, is at great risk of developing grudges against society and against injustice. Sometimes this can be channelled into something good, like someone engaging politically or in an idea-based organization to change society for the better. Sometimes it has devastating consequences when people make terrible choices. This is something that we clearly see in today's society. I'm a social democrat. That is why my thoughts also have political consequences. With regard to housing policy in general and rental rights in particular, I have a clear view. The dwelling is and should be a social right. The dwelling is not just any commodity. It shouldn't be like any other. That is why the very idea that, if market forces are allowed to prevail, the housing situation is so extremely wrong. I'm a social democrat. It does, of course, make some people wonder why we Social Democrats have agreed to a deal with liberal parties to introduce free renting in the case of new production. That answer is quite simple. The alternative would be much worse. In the election movement – indeed – the discussion went hot about market rents. It was about the existing stock, not about the future stock. All those who followed the debate found that if the January agreement had not been on the table, a moderate-led government had made far more far-reaching changes – even for all those already living in tenancy rights today. I'm a social democrat. Therefore, I believe that the existing stock is not affected by the January agreement on the free lease. Similarly, the free rent only applies on one occasion, namely when the house is ready. After the rent is set at that time, the renting shall either enter into a tariff system determined by the State or into a negotiation system. I honestly find it difficult to see another possible government option in this House that would choose to introduce tariffs. As if this were not enough, we are retaining investment support for rental rights. Of course, rental apartments built with investment aid will not have free renting. There will be a direct transfer of capital, and we do not want that. A large part of the apartments that are being built, because the construction now unfortunately dips, will probably not have free rents. I'm a social democrat. So of course it pains me, it hurts, that we move away from the existing and normal party system. I believe that the issue of better functioning housing policy has completely different solutions than changing the leasing system. At the same time, however, I am extremely proud that, through the January agreement, we are securing large general state subsidies to the municipalities. I am proud that we are introducing free work clothes to the employees in the care of the elderly. I am proud that we are keeping the greatest efforts ever made in this country by rail. I am proud that we have managed to reach an agreement on a major tax reform in this country. I'm proud that we're raising our pensions. I am proud that we are starting a reduction in working time, which is what family week means in practice. I am proud that we are setting ambitious climate targets and continuing the transition to a sustainable society. And I am extremely proud that through the January agreement we have succeeded in countering the conservative forces in the gate and that we can thus continue to build a society that does not make a difference between people and people. Madam President, I would like I'm a social democrat. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-153	Madam President, I would like It was heard in the speech that this is difficult. It is good that Ola Möller is proud to be a social democrat, but think of all the vows you have committed with a heel kick. Your close Tenants' Association notes that they want to show the Social Democratic Party that there is an impatient frustration and anger after the failed election promise. The party was only a few months earlier clear that you will never introduce market rents. Now you're saying you were just talking about existing stocks and you've never said anything else. Well, you've been building your argumentation for a hundred years to be against market rents. Now, if you say otherwise, it says a lot about how much you've moved. Ola Möller says he is proud of everything that is done in the January agreement. That's interesting, too. As a social democrat, you are now proud to remove the defense tax. I wonder what would have happened if the Moderates had. Ola Möller is also proud that you are loosening labour law. I wonder what the Social Democrats would have said if the Moderates had done so. You are also proud that you are introducing market rents. Again, I wonder what you would have said if the Moderates had done so. Last but certainly not least, Madam President, Ola Möller is proud that you are going to open up the Public Employment Service. That's interesting. Explain to me all the positive elements of introducing market rent in new production. Explain all the advantages! Nevertheless, Stefan Löfven highlighted this as one of the major reforms in the January agreement. Inform me and the voters of the benefits the Social Democrats see with this.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-159	Madam President, I would like I note that it is much nicer to read Mats Green's reservation where he is looking for broad agreements, seeking consensus and welcoming developments. That is the way of thinking that characterises us Social Democrats. We are trying to find solutions to existing political problems. If I had been left to decide as a Social Democrat myself, this would not have been there. But just as for you when you removed the property tax, which you were not interested in removing because you compromised with your then alliance colleagues, we must choose to compromise with our current partners. That is not good, and it is not social democratic policy. But we make up 28% in this House, and then we have to swallow certain things. It is just as our cooperation parties have swallowed up to keep investment support and to give free work clothes to those who work in elderly care. You have to give and take in a negotiation. It hurts, and it's nothing to hymn with. I'm not proud of those parts, but I'm proud of what I've brought up here and some other things. Everything in the 73-point programme is not Social Democratic policy, but you have to live with it. We honor this agreement. It's important to us. I also note that Mats Green has not mentioned his own policy for almost ten minutes of speaking time in this House. Can't you tell us what the Moderates want? At the Tenants' Association's question to you during the election campaign, you said you wanted more free renting and reform in the existing stock. We do not guarantee that through the January agreement.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-163	Madam President, I would like But the Social Democrats promised all voters, including the Tenants' Association, that you would never compromise. You promised that a Social Democrat would never compromise on this issue. You said you were stable, safe and secure in your core values. Then it only goes a few months, and then you've sold it all out. There we see credibility when a Social Democrat says that you never compromise on an issue, and then you say with a heel in the Chamber that you are not proud of that particular compromise but that it was necessary. The second point raised by Ola Möller was that the Moderates are calling for cross-block discussions and negotiations on housing policy. Yes, we do. Ola Möller also says he wants it too. That is why my question to you, Ola Möller, is: can you promise that it will be so? It is interesting, because your party friends have really wavered and said that there is no longer any cross-block discussion. And I note that your cooperation parties are saying the opposite. Perhaps you can tell the industry and the Swedish voters. Will we have cross-block discussions where we can all give and take? Will that be the case? I do not think so, because we do not have the will or the ability to tackle the challenges of housing policy together. We have moderates, and we have very few sacred cows in that work. Once again, can you promise that we will have cross-block political deliberations on housing policy, as you promised after the elections, or is it also now gone with a kick in the heels on the part of the Social Democrats?
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-167	Madam President, I would like Again, not a word about what the Moderates actually want. I think it's boring, Mats Green. Of course, I cannot promise any cross-block discussions, but I can say that I think it is reasonable that we are discussing it. I like that approach, because I think that many major issues in Sweden need to be resolved with more cooperation and not less. The advantage of this debate is that it is an audience. There are plenty of people who see it, and I don't think any of those who do it perceive that I'm taking this with a heel kick. It hurts. We don't like everything, but we honor our agreements... just as you were allowed to do when you ruled together with other parties. It's not easy to control. It hurts to control. But we are taking that responsibility right now, and we intend to continue to do so. We see the consequences when the Moderates rule. Then a third of Arbetsförmedlingen will disappear because you are making a huge 20 billion tax cut with a napkin sketch. It's all gone, and then you don't take any responsibility for how it's done. It is not our proposals to start investigating how we are going to reform the Public Employment Service, which means that 4 000 plus people have now been announced, but it is your policy. Suddenly I understand why Mats Green is not interested in talking about his policy in this House, but instead stands and claims direct inaccuracies such as that our election general would have been Anders Ygeman. It wasn't. But now you have time to sit down and google for a while, Mats Green, so now you can find out who our general actually was. I also hope that you will have a more constructive debate in the future. I am, of course, open to carrying it. The Social Democrats always are. I hope that instead of spending eight minutes accusing us of lying, we are trying to talk about our own policy so that we can meet somewhere.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-175	Madam President, I would like When I listen to Mr Olas's speech, there is much I agree with. He talks about equality, about not making a difference between people and people. But there is a huge difference between what Ola says here and the real politics, and I have a problem with that. Ola says that this is not a social democratic policy and that it hurts. Yeah, it hurts. When the Social Democrats were out in the election movement talking about this, they said that it will never be accepted, as Mats Green mentioned. I hate to agree with a Moderate, but what Mats Green mentioned here is absolutely true. If it now hurts and it is not a social democratic policy and if all research shows that it will lead to something negative, that vulnerable people will be homeless, then why do you want to introduce market rents?
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-178	Madam President, I would like First of all, you have to explain, Momodou Malcolm Jallow, how those who risk becoming homeless will be able to move into the newly produced apartments. Is it the people who today move into the apartments with presumptuous rents – which are basically where the free renting will land, according to the developers? I have spoken to many developers, and they say that this is in many ways a blow to the air because the rents are already as high as they can get today. The Tenants' Association has not taken very many battles about the presumption rents. There is an example of 22 000 for a five in Hagastaden. Should the people who risk becoming homeless move in there, and if so, how? I'd like to know. Then there is this: I am clear that not everything in this agreement is a social democratic policy. It hurts. If we had the power to decide for ourselves, we wouldn't have introduced it. But you have the opportunity to ask the parties who have pushed for this why they think it is so good. It was a price we had to pay for being able to have a government in this country that is not led by Ulf Kristersson. Here you have an obligation to explain who you are going to implement all your fantastic ideas with. I'm here for a lot of what you're saying. We're sort of in agreement. Last term we worked together, and then we know what the distribution profile of the budget looked like. It was a good distribution profile. It was in many respects bellow. I wish we could stand there again. I do it very much. But you have to explain to me how it would happen now. You can also explain to me how a first-time lease to enter a state tariff system or a negotiation system can be regarded as a market lease.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-182	Madam President, I would like I think Olas's argument is limping a little. To say that because the rents are already so high, we will introduce a system that makes them even higher is not reasonable. We have new production with very high rents, just as Ola says. Then our task is to ensure that apartments are built that ordinary people can afford and to make reforms that allow people to actually enjoy the right to have a place of residence. But to say that rents are already so high that people will still not be able to afford, so it's just as well that we introduce a system that makes it even harder for people to enter the housing market – that's a strange way of reasoning, I have to say. Another question: If Ola now believes that the home is not a commodity like others to be bought and sold in a market, that it is not an investee but a social right, then I assume that both Ola and I have a responsibility as Members of Parliament to ensure that people actually enjoy that right. How will this reform enable ordinary people, Swedish citizens, to enjoy this social right?
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-185	Madam President, I would like I note that you are not answering at all who you are going to implement your policy with, Momodou Malcolm Jallow. I do not think that we can stand and throw dung at each other on the basis of ideological beliefs and then not be prepared to go to practical politics. Then it'll be a theoretical game, and this is about people of flesh and blood-- as you well know, Momodou Malcolm Jallow. Then there is this: we have managed to retain investment aid. It is precisely the people we are talking about here that investment support is for, and I can promise you that if you ask center parties or liberals, they are not very happy about investment support. It hurts them. I'm quite convinced of that. But that's the way in negotiations, which you actually pay homage to yourself. You're celebrating the party model. What we have done here is that we have negotiated, and it hurts. You have to give and take, and unfortunately it was not possible for us to get better out of this. You cannot believe yourself that a government led by Ulf Kristersson would have done more for the people you and I protect. Hopefully, right now, we are the defense against the conservative wave. In the future, together, all of us who want to protect against making a difference between peoples and peoples, can help each other as progressive forces to create a social housing policy in this country. Even if I'm not in the government, I like broad conversations where we talk to all parties-- like when Larry Söder in a previous debate stretched out a hand and even wanted to do joint movements. It's not going to happen, but I like the initiative. I like the spirit, because in municipal politics that I come from, cooperation is the important thing. It hurts, but it also comes out of it a lot of good.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-188	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen, may I say that they are on their way out – this is a debate that concerns the young people who are leaving the premises now. It is their future and their ability to find a home we are talking about. Why does paragraph 44 of the January Agreement state that the rental model should be reformed? Yes, housing construction has decreased. Construction targets have never been achieved. From the growth of the alliance government – from a rather modest level; to be acknowledged – construction has now begun to decline again. Despite beating their chests and saying that this and so many homes have been created thanks to the reintroduction of building subsidies, no one has yet been able to prove that any housing has been created thanks to these subsidies. On the other hand – and you should have great respect for that – there is a concern about what happens when they are removed. This, Madam President, is the ultimate proof of how damaging it is to introduce construction aid: how difficult they are to phase out without immediate consequences for those facing a construction start. Madam President, I would like I have great respect for the fact that it has been difficult to conclude the agreement, as Ola Möller mentioned. We in the Center Party would rather have carried out this reform together with the alliance parties; that should also be said. But in that case it had happened with the Swedish Democrats as overcoat. When we listened to Roger Hedlund's speech, we understood how far away the alliance parties of Sweden Democrats are from this issue. It is very clear that the Swedish Democrats in this case are to be regarded more as socialists than anything else. The government parties have agreed with the Center Party and the Liberals to introduce free leasing in new production and to negotiate collectively as an alternative, as is currently the case. Madam President, I would like I refrain from commenting on Ola Möller's interpretation and refer instead to the investigations to be initiated in 2019 and conducted until 2021. But I'm still going to mention a little about our entry into this. The Center Party has been a driving force. This is one of the many successes that we will take care of in our cooperation on the 73 points of the January Agreement. A gradual reform of the way we set rents is needed if we are to cure the disease that paralyzes and prevents people from applying for training, changing jobs, moving together and moving apart and which also limits Swedish companies' ability to recruit and recruit the right skills. The Swedish housing market has been dysfunctional for a long time. We want to break that impasse and do something about it. The Swedish housing market is characterised by a major failure: there is neither housing nor market. The rental model we have today has its roots in the war years of the 1940s. It affects the most vulnerable – the foreign-born, the students, those who lack contacts and are new in a locality. You have to use contacts to get a home at all, perhaps through subletting. The black markets are growing. People live in homes with unsafe contracts and are forced to move around. It is said, Madam President, that 24 000 rental contracts are provided annually by municipalities' social services. The municipalities are thus the country's largest landlord. This shows, if nothing else, the need for some form of social housing policy, which Larry Söder touched upon. It is the people who are farthest from the housing market and who have an immediate and personal need to obtain a dwelling that will be subject to such a social housing policy. It is for them that housing is a right – not for the vast majority like me and Momodou and others, who have decent conditions to get a home on their own. But even for people who are well placed, the possibility of buying a home has been closed. Today, more people are competing for few rental apartments. Everything that is being built is therefore a welcome addition because it triggers moving chains. But as Larry Söder was also into it, it is very difficult for people who want to buy their home to do so. This also involves and competes for the few rental apartments available. The resistance of those who do not want to see change is massive, and not unexpectedly it is also full of exaggerations. There is a threat of market rents and a shock increase in the rents that affect everyone. It is said that housing companies, regardless of the demand, will want to take out usury rents. Nothing can be more wrong. No landlord wants to stand with an empty apartment. You'd rather rent it out at a loss. Many paint a fear picture of what happens when rents can be set free in new production, as we want. Nothing can be more wrong, and the whole debate is based on one major fundamental error of thought, namely that the housing shortage would be a constant state that cannot be affected. It can be changed, but it will take time. It is possible to remedy the housing shortage. We will have a location where there are apartments to choose from and where there are homes with high and low rents, which are governed not by a utility value but by how attractive the homes are, where they are and what standard they have – just like in any housing market in other countries. It is Sweden's system that is unusual. In Finland and Germany, free renting can be combined with low thresholds. There is no housing shortage, and it is possible for everyone somewhere to start their housing career and move on. More housing is needed for the removal chains to work. Today's regulation slows down the functioning of migration chains. Those who defend today's system – we have heard them speak here before – have no solutions of their own to change the situation of those who are without housing, other than more government money and more municipal and state governance. But it is gratifying that there is a broader commitment to investigating a new way of putting rents on. Free renting will not make new rentals more expensive than they are today, because new rentals have high rents. This is due to high construction costs and to the uncertainty that many feel about possible negotiations with the Tenant Association for a use value lease, or that they accept, out of goodwill, that a so-called presumption rent is charged. The utility value system, which is, after all, under debate here, has only been designed to protect insiders. Instead, the system has countered the desire to build, and we want to change that. The system of presumption rents was introduced in order to create the conditions that make it economically justifiable to create new leases. If we look at the building statistics, we can see that this succeeded to some extent. But quite soon it was realized that the time for presuming rents needed to be extended, from then on 10 to the present 15 years. The pre-payment rent is a cost-based rent, which is set to be a market rent without actually being a market rent. It does not promote cost-effectiveness when setting a rent based on what it costs to build. It does not pressure costs, and there is no incentive for the construction company to keep the rents down. On the contrary, the construction company can charge additional costs on the rental staff. So the conclusion, Madam President, is that free renting provides better predictability and lower rents initially. It is a long-term system based on an agreement between the person who will rent and the person who will rent, with full possession protection and with the same opportunities as before to try the rent's worth. After an initial period of free renting, the rent shall be renegotiated but shall remain in the system. Mobility is needed to enable young people to access housing that becomes vacant in the older population. It is important to look at renting also in existing stocks. There is an opening in the agreement to allow a Commission to identify the impact of the situation on the rents of the old stock. This is also an important way of creating transparency in the system. A newly produced tenancy can never be cheaper than one who is older, unless it is given the round subsidies we have heard of here before. We have promised not to abolish subsidies, but they must be used restrictively and only where they mean the difference between building and not doing so, so that someone who would otherwise not have been able to get a place of residence is given the opportunity to do so. We do not want housing that is financed with tax money from the state. Free renting is an important breakthrough, but it does not solve all the problems. It is not a quick fix, and the result will have to wait for it. We need simpler building rules. Stop applying municipal special requirements that make it difficult! We want to make it easier for construction companies to run a planning process themselves. V i v ll review national interests. We want to create depreciation rules that make it possible to put together calculations in rural areas without subsidies even where market values are low. Amortization requirements and mortgages have created problems for house companies, and this will hit hard on the efficiency of building. This is done through a conversion to more series-produced houses that can be let to lower rent. Madam President, I would like Reforms are urgently needed. We are particularly pleased that we are now being given the chance to implement some of the reforms that we have fought for in the Alliance. I am pleased that the Social Democrats and the Green Party have realised that they must break ties with the past and join in when necessary reforms are implemented. We in the Center Party are, of course, behind all our motions, but we abstain and refer to our particular opinion. At last, we are given a chance to carry out reforms that have been called for but which no one has managed to implement so far, even in the context of the alliance!
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-213	Madam President, I would like Cognitive dissonance is called when you have a picture of reality that does not correspond with real reality. Although there is evidence to the contrary, one continues to claim that one is right. This is exactly what the Center Party is suffering from, I would like to believe. It is very clear in the research. Over 60% of voters think market rents are bad. There are studies that have clearly said that it will not lead to more housing being built. Yet the Center Party and Ola continue to force reform on the Swedish people towards better knowledge, with all the facts available. It's nothing but cognitive dissonance. It's not healthy. It doesn't make sense! Just like I said, it's self-harm. People are being forced into something that is known to harm those whom Ola and I claim to represent here in this House. It doesn't make sense! Why, despite all the evidence that market rents are not the solution, does the Center Party want to continue introducing them?
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-217	Madam President, I would like Cognitive dissonance, says Momodou Malcolm Jallow. It was an interesting entry point for a debate. Self-harming behaviour, he says. What Momodou Malcolm Jallow is trying to convince me about is that 60 years of failed housing policy with a regulated leasing system should be the solution to future housing policy. You can talk about cognitive dissonance when you believe in yesterday's solutions, which have obviously led to the housing situation that we have. It is a situation of declining housing, where we have not achieved the construction objective and despite extensive building subsidies, there is still a reduction in housing and a terrible housing shortage, with people having unsafe contracts, being crowded, suffering from homelessness or perhaps not being able to accept jobs or study places offered to them. So it is with today's system, the system that Momodou Malcolm Jallow seems to want to continue to use. Momodou Malcolm Jallow has no interest whatsoever in reforming anything. Momodou Malcolm Jallow is a champion of the people who have already managed to establish themselves in the housing market. Momodou Malcolm Jallow may be respected because he does not understand the mechanisms of the market economy. It may be that he does not really understand how it is that a developer who stands with empty apartments has decided to raise rents and take out usury rents from people. He does not understand how a market works where there is a balance between supply and demand, which means that there are also vacant apartments for low rents.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-221	Madam President, I would like I can assure you, Ola Johansson, that I understand the basic principle of the functioning of the market economy. The difference between me and Ola is that I don't see the home as any good, to be sold and bought in a market. I understand that a market based on supply and demand is being introduced as a capitalist. If there is a high demand but not enough supply, prices go up. These are fundamental market economy principles. But this is used when it comes to buying bread, rice, or milk. Housing is a social right. Ola and I both have a place to go home at night. But I can promise Ola that there are lots of families with children, poor people, who will sleep out on the streets tonight. Why? This is because Ola and the Center Party see the dwelling as a commodity that can be sold – an investee rather than a social right. I have a question. Ola mentioned that he does not want a housing policy financed by tax money. That's interesting. We subsidise residential apartments, villas and houses owned by wealthy, wealthy people, but we do not want to help finance the construction of rental apartments. It's hypocrisy! We are giving taxpayers' money to rich people who can afford it, but when we talk about using taxpayers' money to help poor people who cannot afford it, the Center Party and Ola are always at the door, closing and saying no. Why, Ola?
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-226	Madam President, I would like The tax reform in the field of housing and labour market policy is another discussion. We will take it in special order. In fact, it is included in the January agreement that we should conduct such talks, preferably across the block but probably not with the Left Party as a party to the discussions. But I guess the government will have to decide what happens with that. That is not what we are discussing here today. What we are discussing here today is the financing conditions. Momodou Malcolm Jallow's starting point is that the government should go in and finance. Of course, taxation can be discussed, but what Momodou Jallow is discussing is the introduction of state subsidies. This has nothing to do with taxation. What is important for the construction industry as a whole – both for the utility housing companies, for the person who is about to buy a dwelling and for the person who is ready to build a new rental property – is that there is a reasonable predictability for how this investment can be financed. We are not talking about state capital, but about private capital that is going to go to the sectors where it is possible to get the money invested back. It is as simple as it works in a market economy as the one we have chosen to have in Sweden. Reasonable predictability means that you have the feeling that going into the housing industry and investing your capital is something that you will be able to get a reasonable and long-term return on. It is not a quick cash issue, it is a matter of being able to get a return over time because you invest in housing that you rent out as a landlord to a tenant for a rent that he has the opportunity to pay for a long time, without quick and sharp throws. This creates the conditions for the long-term approach I am asking for.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-230	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and, therefore, rejecting the motions which have been made in this area on rental rights. For the Green Party, a basic premise is that a diversity, a mix of people and also in terms of housing and tenure forms are needed for sustainable development. We need several different functions in the same area, where housing, work and school are located around the same corner as commerce and entertainment and where it is close to easy everyday trips by bike and public transport and also on foot. In the same way, we want to see a diversity in the housing stock, a mix of rentals, flats, owner-occupied apartments, terraced houses and villas. Diversity is the key to sustainable society in all its different perspectives. It is also about collective rental rights, generational housing, village communities and preferably new innovative solutions in terms of various forms of leasing. We want to reward diversity, because it reduces the risk of housing segregation and creates a more vibrant society. Different forms of accommodation should be mixed and available in all areas. We believe that it is particularly important to protect rental rights and that there is regulation of the rental market. The fact that we have a shortage of housing in Sweden is nothing new. Nor is it something that has arisen in recent years. It has been built too little, although it has been a larger construction now than before. We can also see that it has been built for little rent and that overall it is too few. According to the January agreement concluded between four parties – S, C, L and MP – the rental model is to be reformed. As has been said in the debate, free renting in the case of new construction is to be introduced. That makes a difference to today's system, but I do not think we benefit from exaggerating that difference. We've had presumptuous rents. With free renting, there will be changes in the longer term, because there has been a great deal of freedom in renting in relation to what has been built in recent years. The rent within the stocks is set after an initial period according to a tariff based on comparable objects with a gradual adjustment to achieve predictability or through normal negotiation. We will also allow the quality of the apartments to have a greater impact on renting. A Commission shall identify the varying application of the location factor between different locations and propose appropriate measures in cases where it is found that the location factor is not sufficiently taken into account. I think it is positive that the situation is becoming more important in this way. In several places they have previously worked according to such a model. One can really discuss the fairness of paying the same amount for equivalent apartments when one is located in an attractive place while another does not. I, and many with me, think it's more fair to pay more where more people want to live. The negotiation system for existing rentals will also be reformed in order to function more effectively. Madam President, I would like We have a housing shortage in Sweden. A large group of people are completely outside the housing market. For this group to enter the housing market, more apartments with reasonable rents are needed. It should not take a thick wallet or rich parents to buy a share in a housing association. Prior to the elections, the Green Party launched a series of housing policy proposals. In the debate we are having today, there are a few points I would like to make in particular. We need to tighten up the Housing Supply Act, so that all municipalities contribute to the existence of housing for different groups. Both carrots and whips may be needed in that work. In order for those furthest from the housing market to enter it, we believe that we need to develop the model of rent guarantees, so that more people can get a rental contract. We believe that it is the ability to pay rather than the level of income that should be the starting point for people to sign rental contracts. There may also be a need to review the housing allowance and various measures to make better use of the existing housing stock. One idea could be to make it possible for residents to receive housing allowance. In order to overcome the housing shortage that we have, we need to make better use of the existing housing stock. Many new homes also need to be built. The Green Party would like to see a new target for housing policy: the construction of 450 000 new homes by 2025. At the same time, it is the housing stock that we need in great need of renovations and renovations. There is a risk that it will be cost-driven. We must consider the risk that people cannot afford to pay for it. We need to take on a housing social responsibility in those parts. Madam President, I would like We are in the midst of today's great building of society. What society do we want, and what society do we need to build to get there? The homes we are building today will work just as well in 50 and preferably 100 years. We need to take into account climate change and sea level increases and also have increased security of supply. Today's community building is not least about housing construction and getting away from the housing shortage. There has been talk of 700 000 new apartments and the pace of urbanisation. If people are to live where they want to live, it also needs to be built. This represents a major challenge that we must face if we are to meet the real need. Diversity is the key to the sustainable society of the future. This is particularly true in the residential area. With this, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-247	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your speech, Rasmus! I talked earlier to my friend Ola about why they choose to introduce market rents. He tried to explain that it hurts. I want to ask you the same question, Rasmus. The Green Party was during the election campaign talking about never accepting market rents. Several studies were carried out. Among other things, questions were sent to various candidates. The Green Party's answer to a question put by the Tenants' Association was very clear, namely that there is no question of market rents. That is not what should improve the situation regarding the housing shortage that we have in Sweden. Yet we stand here today. I'd like to hear what you've been thinking, Rasmus. Why this turnaround? Why is it that the Green Party suddenly supports the introduction of market rents? What do you say to all the voters whom you have promised not to do so?
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-250	Madam President, I would like In December, we all followed the process of government formation and the various tours in the country. Although we may not have seen all 97 press conferences, I think we followed this quite closely, especially those of us in this House. In December, both Annie Lööf and Jan Björklund were out and made public demands to discuss with the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party. This concerned changes in the labour market as well as in the housing market. It was very clear, and although the discussions in December did not finish, they did so in January when we got the January agreement. All the 73 items included were completely public, and the Liberals had television broadcasts of when they took a stand. Even the Left Party could follow this. Jonas Sjöstedt obviously did, because after that agreement was approved he announced his press conference and talked about a paper that no one would see. There he said that if this government implements what it has actually said it is going to do, then the government will be removed. So you let a government out, but if the government does what it has said it should do, you're supposed to vote it out. I do not really think it makes sense, but the Left Party is happy to respond to what they have thought about this. I can also take the opportunity to ask a counter-question: What is fair about an apartment that is centrally located in Malmö paying the same rent as for a similar apartment in Rosengård or Kroksbäck? Why shouldn't the situation at the apartment be more important than it is today?
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-255	Madam President, I would like I note that Rasmus Ling did not answer my question. I repeat: during the election campaign, you were out campaigning that you would never accept market rents. That is what you have said to your constituents: if we get your confidence and your votes, we will fight for market rents not to be introduced. But when you get the voter's confidence, you will come here and introduce market rents the first thing you do. Why are you betraying your constituents? That's the question. We in the Left Party are very clear, and our party leader is very clear: In the face of market rents, it blows. We really do. I would also like to take this opportunity to say, while I have one minute left, that it is not just market rents that are problems in relation to the Green Party. In Stockholm, the Alliance and the Swedish Green Party have joined forces and decided that it will be possible to re-constitute rental apartments for tenant-owners in certain Stockholm suburbs. The Alliance's desire to reconstitute and sell rentals for ideological reasons is to be expected, but the Green Party's agreement to this cannot be understood! The Green Party wants to sell out what Rasmus Ling says to protect, namely rents. How does that make any sense?
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-258	Madam President, I would like I believe that there is a fairly clear ideological difference between the socialist and the green, for which I stand. The Left Party cannot understand the value of mixed areas and the fact that it is reshaping in areas where rental rights are totally dominant. I think it is a good thing to make it possible for mixed tenure forms. It is not something that we have said we should not do, and I think that what I was talking about in my speech is a healthy development. But I understand you're looking at this in a completely different way. You want rentals to be separate in their areas and villas and residences in others, that is, a divided city, which is something that I and the Green Party do not want. We want a mixed society. As far as market rents are concerned, it is not something that we have opposed or talked about in the election movement in the same way as the Social Democrats and the Left Party. But it has not been the first on the list of measures either. We are not the ones who have pushed forward these proposals. But we support it, and that is certainly not the worst proposal. There are other elements that I find more difficult, but that is also not the proposal that I would say brings the greatest improvements. The differences compared to the current system are very small and apply mainly to Stockholm with its very different housing market compared to the rest of the country. The difference from today's presumption rent system will be very marginal in most of the country. I do not think that this is something that is difficult to defend, especially when it comes to enabling mixed forms of tenure in different parts. That is something we should see more of.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-262	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that I think it is a good thing that the Green Party, after careful consideration, has seen the value of market rents and that it will fight for it to be implemented. I believe it will benefit the housing market in the long term, as the Green Party said. In the short term, I don't think it makes much difference, but in the long run it does. The Environment Party's Rasmus Ling also said in his speech that it wants a new housing policy target of 450 000 new homes by 2025. My first question is, of course, whether I understood it correctly. If I understood it correctly, my question is, because it has been in the government since 2014 and has been in the Ministry of Housing since 2015, what has prevented the Green Party from having such a goal today. When you have the Ministry of Housing, you are ultimately responsible for Sweden's housing policy, and then you should also have some influence on how this is handled. In order to achieve a functioning housing market, not only new production but also mobility in the housing market is needed. In an interpellation debate with the housing minister we have today, there was no interest in increasing mobility in the housing market by reducing the credit restrictions that exist against ordinary citizens, and then my question is: does the honourable Member share the same view as the housing minister, or is it possible to increase mobility in the housing market by easing credit restrictions for ordinary citizens?
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-265	Madam President, I would like There were many questions at the same time from the Christian Democrats, but on a subject that engages it is well natural. Market rents are included in the contract. For our part, we believe – and I hope that also a party like the Christian Democrats – that we must combine this change with social measures. Even if there are not major changes in the short term, we do not want to see in the future that people cannot afford to live, and we need to support groups that do not have them for different reasons. This may be because you are older, have become ill or otherwise. There must be social responsibility, and when we make this kind of change, it becomes even more important. The Green Party has been in the Ministry of Housing for almost five years, and we can see that there have been a great many reforms. The pace of construction has been significantly higher than it was before. But, as I have also said, we are in no way ready, but the level needs to remain high. Nor do we solve the housing shortage simply by building new ones. Greater mobility in the housing market is needed, and we need to make use of the entire stock that actually exists. In this context, the change made by the property tax is interesting. It has been reported that a large part of the country's municipalities now pay higher property tax than they did before, while in the metropolitan regions where it is very crowded it has fallen drastically. This means a worse distribution between different parts of the country that is very unhappy. We will therefore need to review mobility in many respects, not least in terms of taxation.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-270	Madam President, I would like I did not get an answer as to whether there were 450 000 homes by 2025, but I understood that this is the objective of housing policy. I agree with the Green Party that market rents must of course be combined with social responsibility. That is why the Christian Democrats are proposing that we have a public rental statistics where you can actually check what a reasonable rent is. Municipalities should take social responsibility because people have a roof over their heads in one way or another. We are not divided on this issue. On the other hand, the Green Party says that there were a great many reforms in the residential area during the last parliamentary term. It would be interesting if the Green Party could recite a number of these reforms that have increased mobility in the housing market. We may not agree on this view. I think that there are a great many reforms missing and that, instead, mobility in the housing market has been reduced through the credit restrictions that exist today. It may be that every part of these credit restrictions per se can be a good idea, but the whole thing means that people can't actually take a loan to buy a home. If we are to give people an opportunity to get a home, we must ensure that people live in the right type of housing. Some want a larger dwelling, and some want to own their home. Then it is also so that some can live in rental apartments. I think the Green Party is getting away with the housing issue far too easily. If you set a target of 450 000 housing by 2025, and you have actually been responsible for this policy area for five years, I do not see that this objective can be achieved with the government that we have today. A new government is needed for such a goal to be met. If the Green Party is interested in this, I am willing to do so.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-275	Madam President, I would like 50 000 - 70 000 homes have been built each year compared to less than 30 000, as was the case under the alliance government. There's a difference. We have significantly increased the construction, although of course there is still a long way to go. During the last parliamentary term, discussions took place between at least six of the parliamentary parties on a settlement of housing policy. Unfortunately, the alliance parties dropped out. Nevertheless, the government went ahead with 22 points. But my hope now is that we will have more reforms. We have established a number of them between S, MP, C and L in the January Agreement. Hopefully we could also have even wider deals on important issues such as mobility in the housing market, where our parties agree – or at least have been – that the interest deduction must be scaled down and exchanged for, for example, reduced migration rates or other things in order to increase mobility. The changes that have been made to, for example, amortisation requirements have been made to prevent the apparent price increase that has previously been on housing and that strikes at groups that are most difficult to obtain an apartment. There are backsides to taking such measures too; we are fully aware of that. But just passively looking at the record on record is not a sustainable solution. But hopefully we can now have reforms in place to ensure that housing construction continues to increase, but also to increase mobility.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-278	Madam President, I would like We are in favour of all our proposals, but for time-winning, I am only in favour of our reservation 2 under paragraph 1. As the committee's report points out, the population of Sweden has increased sharply, mainly because of immigration policy. This has led to the need to find housing for immigrants, but it has also led to the growth of housing queues throughout the country at a horrifying pace. As a result, young people who want to leave home, newly trained people looking for work and old people who want to move to smaller housing find it difficult to find apartments, which has also contributed to employers having difficulty finding trained staff. More apartments are needed. There is also another trend. Society's focus has long been on the big cities and their problem pictures. It has created a legitimate feeling outside these cities that more needs to be done to promote rural development. Private rural areas and their local centres exist in an interdependency. If the rural cities develop, their surrounding areas will not develop – Sweden's rural areas – and then Sweden will not develop in the long term either. While big cities need very careful plans and rules to ensure that different interests and functions do not hinder each other, rural areas need primarily authorities that not only control and perhaps slow down, but that support and encourage new initiatives, new industries and new activities. Another trend is that more and more of Sweden's legislation comes from the EU and does not always fit local conditions in the sparsely built Sweden. Today's debate is therefore very much about the need for a clear but slim regulatory framework. The Swedish National Audit Office concluded in 2013 that the government's handling of national interests often makes planning of new housing difficult. As regards national interests, it can therefore be pointed out that they should be few and that they should really be of national interest. Consultation with the municipalities prior to registration of national interests is also needed. National interests and rural development in coastal locations are usually linked in the debate to the need for new housing, as I have just done. But let me say a few words, not about new homes, but about new cottages. The quality of life in the country needs to compete every day with the wage and career benefits of living in a big city. The possibility of having a summer cottage by water or a ski cabin within easy reach is an important competitive advantage for the countryside. Rural development is therefore not just about how our officials are planning dense settlements, which we in itself need. It is also a question of allowing people to build where they want to. There is a need for a very different view of new settlements in rural areas, where the state and the municipality need to be much more permissive than today. We heard at a seminar this morning that if you set up a wetland on your own land, you must not build a cottage by it because of the beach shelter. It is important for people to have free access to beaches. However, this does not prevent more homes and cottages from being built there, as long as it is clear that beaches and trails must not be turned off for humans and animals. Madam President, I would like Urban settlements have historically grown in farming areas and often continue to grow there at the expense of valuable agricultural land. The agricultural land is crowded from the conurbations. Where agricultural land is no longer profitable, it has long been squeezed from afforestation. Since 1970, ten species that lived in the Swedish agricultural landscape have died out. In view of our small area of agricultural land compared to forests, this means that the extinction of species in fields, meadows and pastures has been ten times greater than in the forest. We need to preserve agricultural land. One of the species that depends on agricultural land is man. Our level of self-sufficiency has long declined. Of course, building our best arable land is not sustainable in the long term. Other land needs to be given priority for urban settlements. Madam President, I would like I mentioned at the beginning of my speech the need for simplified regulations and more encouragement outside the big cities. Speaking of inhibiting or supporting, we are all aware that the covert has produced larger harvests than previously open ditches, but that the cover ditches have disadvantaged, for example, many unusual amphibians and birds. For species protection, therefore, more open ditches are needed. It is therefore likely that more open ditches in forest land in some places could also increase species wealth and, at the same time, increase timber production. But this is hampered by a very restrictive authorisation mechanism. In water matters, of course, permits are almost always required. It is important to weigh ecological, economic, social and cultural values against each other. A mill pond that has existed for hundreds of years is an important cultural value. A small power plant owned by and contributing to the continued economic viability of a farm contributes to all the values I mentioned. In conclusion, we need more slender regulations and more supportive authorities in rural areas. Here we politicians have a great responsibility.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-294	Madam President, I would like Buy country, they are not making it anymore. I quote the American writer Mark Twain here and note that during his lifetime there would still have been quite a lot of that product in his home country. However, it belonged to the indigenous population. Today, land is scarce, and having land does not mean that you can of course make use of it – at least not in the way you thought you could under Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry. Access to buildable land is crucial to building housing and other important infrastructure for society. Without land, no housing, no business start-ups, no municipal premises and no infrastructure. The report we are going to discuss today deals with motions from, among other things, myself and the Center Party dealing with how the patchwork of national interests complicates housing construction. As has already been said, and as we have reserved for together with the Alliance, we want to review national interests so that they become fewer in number and occupy less space. We also want to make the interest in building housing a factor that more reasonably outweighs the value of being able to maintain and monitor national interests. However, we do not want to make a new national interest in either housing or the most productive arable land; as I said, national interests must become fewer and occupy less space. The Center Party also defends private ownership, and we believe that the full potential must be taken into account when assessing the value of the land. This means that the forest owner who is affected by not being able to get his forest cut off, because for some reason it is considered to be worthy of protection, should be able to receive a compensation based on what one would have obtained by felling the forest and selling the timber. Similarly, we are strongly opposed to proposals aimed at a private landowner having his land expropriated without compensation from a municipality that considers itself in need of the land for housing or other purposes. It must be everyone's right to decide how to use land. If used, the financial compensation shall be based on the full value of the land in accordance with the rules in force which guarantee 125 % of the market value. Madam President, I would like For some inexcusable reason, the Government has sent out a referral for a faster housing construction investigation. It proposes that a landowner should be forced to renounce the provision of land without compensation if the municipality claims to want to build socially important activities, such as schools. We assume that the investigation proposal is not being implemented by the government. Municipalities, construction companies, state and landowners should be able to use arable land in a way that is sustainable and secures our food supply, guarantees our sustainable forestry and contributes to a community building that gives us more housing at reasonable costs. However, this must be a decision between the municipality planning and the landowner in question. As far as the review of national interests is concerned, we have not changed our mind. On the other hand, we are now prepared to move from words to action and resolve an issue that has been investigated but has not yet come to a solution. I therefore refer to our special opinion, Madam President, which shows that a review will take place when the January agreement is implemented and that the Center Party will pursue the alliance line as it is formulated in our own and other alliance parties' motions. I turn to the second question. New legislation on water activities and small-scale hydropower came into force at the turn of 2018/ 2019. It was negotiated in the Energy Agreement and the legislation was ready to enter into force recently. The rules for the fund were then clear, i.e. the fund from which hydropower owners should be able to apply for funds to finance the measures they will have to take in order to retain their authorisation to carry out water activities. The Head of the Authority for the Agency for Marine and Water Management says that the trial should start in 2020. One might think that there is agreement on this and that the decision is followed by the direction that Parliament wanted with its decision on legislation, but there still seem to be different interpretations of what we actually agreed on. Owners of small water businesses are concerned that they will not be covered by the new legislation and that it will have a costly investigation of dams and power plants as a result. There is concern on the part of hydropower owners that they are facing not only an expulsion but a phasing out of small-scale hydropower and that, with the legal regulation of the permits now in place, they are facing even tougher times. It may not be surprising, for a price has to be paid as the trials now take place with the support of the new law after not having been regulated at all. From the Center Party we have been careful to take into account the local importance for the district and most of all the need for electricity in a crisis situation. We would like to emphasise that small-scale hydropower is a socially beneficial activity regardless of what it produces and whether it contributes to regulatory power or not. Sweden must have modern environmental requirements on Swedish hydropower, and the testing system must be designed in a way that does not become unduly administrative and economically burdensome for the individual in relation to the environmental benefit sought. That is what was said last June, when we debated and decided on small hydropower. We then agreed on the form of legislation, but we finally disagreed on how it was justified. The Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates – and also the SD, by the way – reserved for their own motivation, which resisted those of the government parties and the Left Party. This may have been crucial in order to avoid the situation we have described, Madam President, to which the owners of small hydroelectric power have returned and are deeply concerned. Unfortunately, we have reason to share it with them. It is important to follow developments in the coming years and to continue visiting owners of dams, ditching companies and small power plants and listen to what they have to tell us. It can be about how they feel that the authorities have not taken on board the spirit of the law but are working on as before and how they feel that funds from the hydropower environmental fund, after various costs have been incurred, are not enough to pay for the measures themselves. We agree to pursue the conditions for small-scale hydropower, and I therefore call for the Center Party's reservation 7, which we have together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. Liberals are making their own reservation. The Swedish democrats, who spoke here earlier, have suddenly lost interest in pushing the issue. It is not for me to review that position, but for the Swedish democrats themselves to answer to the owners of small hydropower. In view of the local importance of the area and, most importantly, the need for generation capacity for electricity in a crisis situation, we would like to emphasise that small hydro power is a socially beneficial activity – whether it is a small power plant or not, and whether it contributes to regulatory power or not.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-309	Madam President, I would like Actually, my colleague and comrade Jon Thorbjörnson would have been here, but he got sick this morning. That's why I have to get in. I was just going to make our request, but to do him a little justice, I was going to say some of the words that he was going to say. Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5. The arable land area continues to decrease in Sweden. At the same time, the exploitation of agricultural land is increasing. The use of agricultural land is meant to build on the land or use it in a way that makes it impossible to grow there again. The main reason for the disappearance of arable land is that the land is no longer cultivated but is growing again. At the same time as this happens, Sweden needs to strengthen its self-sufficiency in food. Madam President, I would like Moreover, the condition of many of the species and habitats of the agricultural landscape is bad or unfavorable. Next to the forest are the most red-listed species in the farming landscape. It is therefore necessary to promote more farming methods that contribute to a tradition that enhances the biodiversity of the agricultural landscape. A more mosaic landscape with different forms of nature work and reduced use of pesticides should be sought. The Left Party believes that the high rate of exploitation of fertile arable land, not least in southern Sweden, is very worrying and not compatible with long-term sustainable food supply. New national instruments are needed to reduce the exploitation of agricultural land in municipalities. In order to reduce the exploitation of arable land, Madam President, the government should come back with a proposal for a national objective for the conservation of fertile arable land. Madam President, I would like The supply of drinking water is probably the most critical supply system we have and a prerequisite for our society to function. The drinking water investigation found that climate change, with increased precipitation, milder winters and more precipitation in winter, increases the impact on watercourses and water resources in the form of organic matter and pollution. Access to and quality of groundwater may also be affected. In 2015, the national interest inquiry presented its final report. The task was to evaluate areas of national interest in the environmental code. National interests concern geographical areas that have been identified because they contain nationally important values and qualities. The investigation suggested, among other things, that the body of groundwater could become a new national interest. The Left Party shares this assessment and expects that the government will also work for such a change of law. Today, no drinking water bodies are classed as national interest; only the drinking water facilities themselves can today be classified as national interests. We believe that both groundwater and surface water bodies of great importance for the supply of drinking water should be classed as national interest. The Left Party believes that the protection of our drinking water supply should be strengthened and that it should become a national interest, like areas with high natural and cultural values, for example. Madam President, I would like The government should come back with proposals for legislation in the environmental code that will enable bodies of basic and surface water of great importance for drinking water supply to be classified as national interests. This should be supported by Parliament and made known to the government.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-319	Madam President, I would like It is quite clear to me that Sweden will use more electricity in the future. Almost all the answers to environmental problems are that we should use more electricity. I'm thinking about electric cars, electric bikes and everything else like that. Small-scale hydroelectric power plants have been and are a great asset for Sweden, for example by contributing to work and development throughout the country. They also contribute to electricity generation and have created unique cultural environments. These cultural environments will have a radical change if it is decided that hydroelectric plants will not be allowed to remain. For me, it is very strange that small-scale hydroelectric plants are not seen as part of the problem solution, as they produce electricity and could produce even more electricity in the future. In this situation, to interpret rules in such a way that many small-scale hydroelectric plants disappear is to be a paragraph rider who does not look at the whole and the problem we will face in the future. It is of the utmost importance that regulation works in a balanced way and that the owners of small-scale hydroelectric plants can feel safe and proud of the importance of their power generation for the country and for the countryside. Many people do not feel this support, and I find that extremely sad. In my opinion, all the assessments relating to the new regulatory framework should be based on the fact that small hydro power can also be socially beneficial. We believe that the regulatory framework for all new permit testing and water management, including for soil drainage and dams that do not produce hydroelectric power, should be flexible and that all rules should be simplified and made more transparent. Moreover, the regulatory framework would then be more respectful of the property rights that I think are important. Is the right to own housing – the right to shelter – a national interest just like cultural environments and outdoor activities? Perhaps that is where we need to go in order to be able to cope with the mission of building more homes and for people to have a roof over their heads. I would argue that areas of national interest, as used and to the extent that they currently exist, create a problem when trying to build new housing. Politics is often about weighing different interests against each other. In my view, the interest in new housing has been hindered by the fact that other interests have acquired a special position that prevents housing construction without us being able to weigh different interests properly against each other. A national interest is a geographical area that has been identified as a protected area because it contains nationally important values and qualities. National interests can be pointed out by many authorities, and when an area has been designated as a national interest, this cannot be changed. In my opinion, there has been inflation in the number of areas of national interest and their scope, while housing construction is expensive and complicated and there are far too few homes being built. The areas of national interest are far too many and the construction of housing is far too small. In addition, the number of designated areas of national interest has increased considerably on areas that could instead be used to build housing. This system is not compatible with social development and a constantly changing society. The system of national interest is thus unwieldy and obsolete and makes it difficult to build housing. The national interest system should be balanced against the housing interest, which should also be given the status of national interest. In this way, housing construction is given a clearer priority when balancing the interest in building housing with other national interests. We also believe that it should be possible, to a greater extent, to reconsider and abolish previous classifications of national interest. Such a review could take place, for example, when a municipality adopts a master plan. Furthermore, the protection of certain national interests, such as the cultural environment and outdoor life, should be limited. In our view, it is remarkable that the government has not yet taken the necessary steps to work out the necessary legislative changes to this effect. The government should urgently come back with a proposal for a revised regulation on national interests, which gives much higher status to the need for housing. The government should also take steps to ensure that the relevant authorities have a sound basis for applying the rules properly and for everyone to feel secure in the decisions taken. With this, I would like to express my support for reservations 1 and 7.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-333	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the CU5 report. Under the heading ‘Soil and water management', motions are discussed which affect everything from national interests and the need for housing via the protection of farmland and the protection of water areas to the conditions for carrying out water activities. The long-term sustainability of balancing individual interests with public interests is an important and major challenge for politicians, authorities and law enforcement bodies. It is precisely the consideration of our national interests that poses major challenges; it is clear to the vast majority of those who are affected by the regulations for various reasons. The 2015 Final Report of the Swedish National Interest Investigation contains some interesting comments, and this is something that both the Government and the Riksdag can continue to work on. Unfortunately, however, it does not provide any obvious solutions to how best to remove barriers to housing construction. The Government will carry out a review and continue its efforts to find a better balance between designated national interests and housing construction during its term of office. This will, of course, take place on the basis of the January agreement between the Government, the Centre Party and the Liberals. Madam President, I would like The need for new housing is great. Although over the past four years, about 250 of Sweden's 290 municipalities have been built twice as much as was done between 2006 and 2014, there is evidence of a continuing housing shortage. We see clear trends in the housing market that the demand for expensive housing is saturated. The conversion of intended tenant-ownership apartments into rental apartments is an example of this. At the same time, the need for small and affordable housing is far from being met. The big dividing line in Swedish housing policy is how much you see the dwelling as a human and social right and how much you see the dwelling as being any one. Those in politics who lean more towards the product perspective rely on deregulation as the solution to the housing shortage with the reasoning that it is primarily complicated rules and an over-regulated market that is the cause of the housing shortage. Parties, like ourselves Social Democrats, see housing as a social right that is not fully suited to an unregulated market, look at other tools to achieve a better balance between the need for housing that people on normal incomes can afford to live in and the actual supply of housing. With a rights perspective, the issue also becomes more complex, but at the same time it contains many more possible solutions or in any case partial solutions. It cannot be ignored that the growing income gap in Sweden also affects people's ability to find suitable housing. The investment support, which now with the January agreement will remain, means that more people can afford to live in newly produced apartments. But everyone knows that the really cheap apartments are within the existing stock. One solution for better matching in the housing market is to free up cheap apartments by getting moving chains going. Another is to strengthen people's ability to cope with higher rents through transfers or by moving from unemployment to self-sufficiency. Madam President, I would like I believe that there is no alexander hem that solves the housing shortage in Sweden. Rather, it is a palette of measures that must be taken. This palette includes a better balance in the weighing of identified national interests and the need for more housing. Madam President, I would like When it comes to the part of the report dealing with water activities, I should like to begin by stating what the report also says: that it is important that all water activities subject to authorisation should be authorised in accordance with the environmental requirements laid down in the environmental code. The changes that we have made to the environmental code through the energy policy agreement between the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Environment Party, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats also includes a review of the rules. We will now have modern environmental conditions for Swedish hydropower. The examination system shall be designed in such a way as to avoid unnecessary administrative and financial burdens and is an important part. The follow-up envisaged in the agreement means that we will follow up 18 months after the entry into force of the provision, i.e. at mid-2020. This means that any measures may be updated in the context of this follow-up, but there is no reason at present to anticipate the forthcoming analysis.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-349	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating land and water management and sports with content ranging from building fishing routes by hydroelectric power stations, simplifying the rules for dewatering land and providing productive arable land with much stronger protection to facilitating the construction of arable land. It is therefore almost wine and tender water from our perspective. Water and food are prerequisites for life, so that the wise and long-term management of these vital natural resources falls on everyone's responsibility. I could talk a long time about water, but I am content to remind all of us that water is part of an eternal cycle. It's the same water we drink today that dinosaurs drank, or maybe the same water that ran like tears along a soldier's cheeks in the trench. It can be good to think about it sometimes. I intend to use a larger part of this contribution to deepen the land use or management of the land resource. In this extensive and interesting material there are also a number of movements about the area of National Interest. Here, too, the demands of sportsmen for change are sprawling in all directions. The previous Government inquiry has touched on the issue of the protection of farm-worthy agricultural land in its final report and among other things proposed that the current general interests in Chapter 3. The environmental code, such as farm-worthy agricultural land and housing supply, shall be indicated as essential public interests. Perhaps drinking water should also be indicated as an essential public interest. The study also proposes the introduction of new provisions in the PBL. The report is being prepared within the Government Office. After all, in the January agreement, as several have said here before, there is an agreement that we should review national interests. In Sweden there are about 2.6 million hectares of arable land. In our country today, we are about 10 million people. Our food consumption in Sweden depends on an area of about 3.7 million hectares, or about 0.37 hectares per person. Over the past 25 years, nearly 190 000 hectares of arable land have been built with roads, apartments and shopping areas only in Sweden. At the same time, we have the most hard surface per inhabitant across Europe. There are a lot of facts, knowledge and statistics in the field of producing arable land that show us that we should not continue to build high-quality arable land. It is neither sustainable, efficient from a resource point of view nor particularly forward-looking and responsible, whether we look forward here in our country or externally to the outside world today. Nevertheless, we continue to build, harden and use high-yielding arable land for purposes other than those for which it is best suited. Globally, this means that other land must be used for the cultivation of our food, such as rainforests that are harvested. Nationally, this means that we in Sweden get less and less opportunity to produce the amount of food we need in Sweden. Now, of course, we have a food strategy that actually indicates that we are going to increase our self-sufficiency. You are based on arable land simply because it seems best right now to build right there. The ground is flat, almost prepared for construction. They build warehouses and shopping centres. In Halland, where I live, arable land with fertility classification 10 has been used to build warehouses. It seems short-sightedly effective and, as I said, cheapest right now. Madam President, I would like Fieldland is a finite resource. When we build on arable land, it's an irreversible process. We cannot restore it to the same fertile land once we have excavated the rubble and worked our way down into the soil. The fertility of arable land is determined mainly by its geological source material. The soil content is also of great importance. Furthermore, the ability to store plant nutrients, be water retention and at the same time draining and have a good ph-value factors that are of great importance to soil fertility. The material in the elf, i.e. the soil under the soil, is also of great importance. The fertile agricultural land requires considerably less resources to produce a high yield than the less fertile land. This is cost-effectiveness in a nutshell. Here, only the ice age and other geological processes have formed the basic conditions that since generations of farmers have cared for and managed with the aim of providing greater returns. The more fertile the land, the greater the yields. There are also a lot of facts that tell us that biodiversity is extremely important from a long-term sustainable perspective for humanity into the future. In the area of land use, we have to take into account the depletion of biodiversity that occurs when we replace high-production arable land with, for example, cut-off rainforests and the huge loss of species that lies in them. Everything goes together, and we need to dare lift our eyes to see how we can coexist in a sustainable way with other species, both plants and animals. A changing climate will also affect the regional as well as global conditions for land use. We therefore have many parameters to consider in finding a long-term sustainable solution for the use of land. There are many considerations to be taken into account. The loss of one hectare of arable land in Europe would have to be compensated by ten times more land being used elsewhere in the world – simply because we have a lot of arable land with high fertility and so far have had a climate that has contributed to good harvests. How do we measure the value of the field? The farmer in Sweden has for a long time put a great deal of effort into rationalising the use of the land with the aim that we should lay as little working time as possible on the ground. Then today we cannot value the land in terms of number of jobs. A better measurement is perhaps how many people give birth to this arable land. It is difficult to understand the logic of destroying primal farmland with roads and settlements while there is no heaviness to the criticism of the expected lower yields of organic farming. Part of society criticises sustainable organic farming with the conviction that lower crops cannot support a growing population while parts of society are working tirelessly to remove as much arable land as possible. The equation is impossible to understand. We in Sweden use an enormous amount of space to live on, if we compare with several other countries. We need to seal. Urban sprawl and scattered settlements are a major threat to sustainable regional development. Public services and maintenance are becoming more expensive and difficult to provide, natural resources are being overused, public transport networks are becoming inadequate and car dependence is increasing, as is the crowding of cars in and around cities. At the same time, the increasing proportion of hard surfaces threatens biodiversity and increases the risk of both flooding and water scarcity. I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-367	Madam President, I would like I too had the privilege of giving this speech at short notice. Soil and water are sought after and necessary conditions for building and living, for living biotopes and for a sustainable society. Many interests must be weighed against each other, and important balances must be made in order for us to be able to say in the future that the whole of Sweden is alive. The motion report CU5 deals with issues relating to the environment, construction, climate-smart electricity generation and so important ownership rights, and this debate shows that there is a large and broad commitment to these issues. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all moderate reservations, but for time winning, I only support reservations 1 and 7. The fact that land and water issues are often classified as national interests shows that they are important to our society. In a complex modern society, different national interests are often set against each other. What's the heaviest weight? Who will decide which national interest is more important than another? It may be said that these are classic goal conflicts, but it is goal conflicts that can become an obstacle to the development of our Swedish countryside in particular. Madam President, I would like I have met representatives of many smaller municipalities, not least in my county of Gävleborg, who says: Here we could build a fantastic residential area, but because of different national regulations we cannot do that. This is also a serious intrusion into municipal self-government. We Moderates see the social problems that exist. We also want a living countryside. We want farmers who run and develop their farms and deliver food to our tables. Today, however, legislation is very restrictive, even in the case of small-scale construction of agricultural land. This may lead, for example, to a family wanting to build a house for itself on a farm not being able to do so. It is unreasonable, and that is why we want to review the legislation. Climate-smart electricity generation in a vibrant countryside is a win-win issue for everyone. Just as my colleague Larry Söder said in his speech, small hydropower is incredibly important. Ola Johansson also had a big point when he partly described why the small hydropower is important, and also asked the relevant question why the Swedish Democrats have changed their position. Don't you stand up for the small hydro power anymore? Don't you stand up for property rights? Because of the uncertainty of small-scale hydropower, as described earlier by the Centre Party and the Christian Democrats, there are large spaces for interpretation, and that is why we Moderates have a reservation with the Centre Party and Christian Democrats. Small hydropower is also needed for defence policy reasons. Electricity production must be spread throughout the country, and that is why our reservation is so important.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-378	Madam President, I would like The activities of municipalities and county councils are often the part of the welfare that most people come into contact with in their everyday lives. Exercises on municipal issues are therefore important and central, and it is positive that so many MPs raise these important issues. The fact is that Members from all parties except the Left Party have raised the issues dealt with in this report. On the moderate side, we have two reservations. The first concerns the conditions for activities carried out in the field of welfare. On a proposal from the Finance Committee, Parliament has previously issued announcements to the Government to return to Parliament with proposals to introduce national quality requirements for the activities carried out in the areas of welfare and to return with additional legislation so that equivalent requirements are made for private and public actors. We note that the government has not yet returned to Parliament on the matter. We note that while the issue is mentioned in the substantive agreement reached between the Social Democrats, the Centre Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, the wording is very vague. We therefore believe that there is still considerable uncertainty as to what the government intends to do with regard to the conditions for activities carried out in the field of welfare. Therefore, the Riksdag should again announce to the Government that it will return to the Riksdag as soon as possible with proposals to establish national quality requirements for all welfare activities and introduce a general permit requirement and tightened and strengthened sanctions. The second reservation by the Moderates concerns the issue of municipal supervision fees, and this is an issue that has been discussed for several years. We believe that it is unreasonable for companies to pay a municipal supervisory fee when supervision is not carried out. If a change is not possible in dialogue with the municipalities, consideration should be given to legislation that does not allow the municipalities to charge a fee for supervision that is not carried out. Of course, I support both reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 1. Madam President, I would like Yesterday, a report from the Swedish Municipalities and County Council on the interim financial statements of the local government sector for 2018. Despite the boom and good tax revenues, it is not uplifting reading. The municipalities report a surplus of just over SEK 14 billion in 2018, while the regions land at a modest half billion. However, it is almost a halve compared to the previous year. It is 72 out of 290 municipalities and 6 out of 20 regions that have deficits. This is a sharp deterioration compared to 2017. Besides, it looks very different across the country. In 2018, only one region and 36 per cent of municipalities reached the target of a result of 2 per cent or more of taxes and subsidies – this despite significantly increased temporary revenues from targeted state grants and strong tax revenues. Net operating costs continued to grow rapidly last year, by 4.7 per cent, which is far more than inflation. As a result, debt has grown by 51 billion in the last year alone, which is a debt increase for the local government sector by as much as 9% in one year. The fact that the results of the local government sector have been halved, that debt has increased and that fewer municipalities and regions are meeting the financial target despite strong boom, good tax revenues and large additional state subsidies is of course very worrying. Madam President, I would like A previous report from SKL last autumn, which we discussed at the time, also explained the reasons why the local government sector's economy will be weakened in the coming years. Firstly, the cost of financial assistance increases. The main reason is that an increasing number of new arrivals become dependent on the provision of grants when they leave the start-up assignment without moving on to work. When the state's supply of new arrivals ends, the costs will be passed on to the municipalities. Secondly, the costs incurred by municipalities as a result of housing shortages increase. In the absence of ordinary housing for various vulnerable target groups, social services must resort to expensive short-term housing solutions. The reasons for the housing shortage are many, but two reasons stand out, according to SKL: There are more young people who want to leave home and a large number of new arrivals who need housing. Third, the Government reduced the compensation to the municipalities for unaccompanied children and young people from mid-2017. This has taken place over time and has resulted in annual deficits in the billion-dollar category of municipalities. Fourthly, there is a call for increased costs within individual and family care. These include increased addiction problems among young adults, more complaints about large sibling groups, more cases of honor-related violence and violence in close relationships, and more complex placements of children and young people. All this costs a lot of money. Fifthly, municipalities have a great demographic pressure where both the group of young people and the group of older people are increasing. Some municipalities are wrestling with large and growing pension debts. Madam President, I would like In the coming years, there is absolutely no room for waste of tax resources, either in municipalities or regions or in the state. It is high time to start prioritising what is most important if you are to ensure good welfare without tax increases. The state budget of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, which has been decided by the Riksdag and with which Sweden is governed today, is a good example of how to prioritise. We gave priority to less important things and could instead make an extra investment this year of 3 1⁄2 billion to the municipalities and 1 1⁄2 billion to county councils and regions. These are important contributions to strengthening well-being. At the same time, there was scope to reduce the tax on both employees and pensioners – tax cuts that are now visible in the pay envelope and in the pension payments for several million Swedes. Responsible policies can both strengthen welfare and reduce the tax burden – at the same time. The choice is ours.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-399	Madam President, I would like We have learned that the home service company Easier Everyday has cheated taxpayers on money and subjected their staff to slave-like working conditions. An employed woman relates: I worked from seven o'clock in the morning until 11:30 in the evening, and my salary was only $11,000. I had no ob, no vacation, and I worked nights, nights, Saturdays and Sundays. The company is active in the Stockholm area, and over the past eight years the CEO has reportedly collected more than 20 million. When the bill on profit restrictions promoted by the Left Party was voted down in this House, Ardalan Shekarabi stated on 6 June 2018: Only the best is good enough for the people. We will not let go of this issue. It is a very important issue both for the future of the school and for the future of welfare in general. That is why, Madam President, it is completely incomprehensible to me how the report of the Committee on Finance can say: In this way, the Left Party is the only party in parliament that wants regulations on profit withdrawals. There are countless examples of this being needed, but they do not bite. Top politicians worry that ordinary people cannot take in the facts, but this, which anyone with a little common sense can understand, they refuse to take in. The talk about quality assurance becomes empty words. That's where we can talk about fake news. And it's not a Facebook group we're talking about without Sweden's highest decision-making assembly. Madam President, I would like Quality is great. Everybody knows that. But all serious assessors, including the large profit study, state that there is a blow in the air with so-called quality requirements because there is no objective measurement. It becomes about as serious as asking someone to measure a distance without giving the person a yardstick. How many quality scores are joy certificates set by profit-making schools in areas with only highly educated parents worth? And how many points is it worth working hard in areas with completely different conditions? Should we have an unconditional group discussion on this? Remember that there are no right and wrong, no templates or frames. We gather back here at the right time for the spring bill and decide slightly fuzzyly how nice everything will be. Oh, my goodness, as my four-year-old daughter would have said. And then you complain about the school being fuzzy. There is no need for a fancy degree to understand that profits in welfare will continue as long as we politicians allow it. The International English School group made a profit of over 40 million between October and December last year. Is it an expression of quality or of greed? That is not a ten thousand crown question right away, but a child's game to answer, if you ask me. Madam President, I would like Of course, all welfare activities will develop their quality, but that more money is needed is a fact. Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils believe that an additional 43 billion is needed until 2022 only to maintain today's strained situation. I am the first to admit that profit limits in welfare do not solve everything, but rather cream for the school children and water and bread for the directors than as it is in fact today: quite the opposite. And the crazy principle of profit every time, I think we can reserve for the benefit of the summer market lottery stand. Madam President, I would like Inequality within and between municipalities is striking. In Save the Children's Annual Report, we can see that child poverty in the Rinkeby district is almost 25 per cent but only 3 per cent on Kungsholmen. Child poverty in Söderhamn is 15 per cent but less than 3 per cent in Danderyd. Others think we're weird. This can be read in the Majblomman association's report that children who grow up in poor families feel that others like them. Young people who don't want to move out of their community are told that they are losers without a future. How crazy is it – that just because you don't dream of a higher education in a big city would be dumber than anyone else? But when nothing is done to fix the jobs, it is a grateful picture to establish – that it is our own fault, that we are the ones who are strange. This is what we have in the balance. This is what we can choose to do something about, but instead the gaps are growing. But astoundingly, we can afford the profit-loss bill. But, Madam President, just because Sweden's top politicians cling to this picture, it is not something that either young people in the village or pensioners in the suburbs buy. We understand, the level of education despite, that it is our tax money that is at stake. We'll deposit money, they'll cash out. We can't have that. Madam President, I would like In the days we have also received that the Moderates think that the state has used Stockholm as an ATM and refers to the tax equalisation system. It is provocative that they seem to have forgotten that all Sweden's natural resources are not within the locks and what the huge state contributions to Stockholm's rich, such as the deducted RUT and ROT and now also the abolition of the military tax, mean. Including this, the state now has a direct debit with completely unconditional contributions to the centre of big cities. Anyway, if you're going to talk in terms of ATMs, it's well-being that's an ATM for greedy venture capitalists. However, the ATM is an inadequate illustration, for in it there is at least a ceiling for how much you can take out. Madam President, I would like Actually, it's easy to do something about this if you want to. BB in Sollefteå costs as much in one year as a few doors at Nya Karolinska. Women's shelters are not allowed to operate sheltered housing, but instead it is people like Bert Karlsson who benefit from today's regulations. Scandal stories and pure crime are revealed over and over again. Only the best is good enough for the people. This can't be the height of quality. We regret the fact that all the other parties do not accept their responsibilities for this. With this, I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-410	Madam President, I would like Ida Gabrielsson is truly a pure left-wing partyist who hates everything that is private. I understand that. Yet I have to say that I have some sympathy for what Ida says. In this way, we may be able to gain some support for the exercise of the Moderates. We want the Riksdag to be clear with the government. It is a matter of coming back with proposals on national quality requirements for all activities in the field of welfare, the introduction of a general authorisation requirement for all activities, and the strengthening and strengthening of current sanctions against those who do not behave properly. We are very much in agreement on this, I think. We will respond to those who are not doing well, what is not working and what is not being done in a good way, whether it is private or public. I think there should be an opportunity to find a way forward. At the same time, I think Ida Gabrielsson's argument is getting a little weird. The Left Party is therefore the only party standing up for this issue. Yet the Left Party has released this government, with the wording not to touch it at all. Then my specific question to Mr Ida Gabrielsson is: is the Left Party going to call for a motion of censure on the government on this, too, if we do not propose a ban on profits?
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-413	Madam President, I would like It did not appear that Jan Ericson was asleep during my speech. But I'll repeat what I said. I simply believe that quality requirements will not be sufficient. You can't measure things in welfare this way. Does Jan Ericson think it is reasonable to make 40 million in profits within a school group, while we have students who go out without complete grades in several areas around the country? Last time we debated Jan Ericson was very concerned about the abolition of the military tax. Now Jan Ericson is concerned about what to do with the benefits of welfare. If Jan Ericson is really this worried, I can say that there is a standing offer from the Left Party to put us together in committee on such issues. Then we can actually stop the abolition of the military tax, or for that matter make sure that we do something against profits in welfare. But the Moderates are not interested in it. The only thing they were interested in, as we understand it, was getting the prime minister's post. We still think that whoever has it now is a little better.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-416	Madam President, I would like This is quite typical. In the world of the Left Party, profits are ugly. Loss is clearly something much better. I was just talking about all the municipalities in Sweden that have large deficits. So they're going at a loss. Is it really better that we have a loss-making community sector than that we have profit-making schools? I cannot quite understand that reasoning on the part of the Left Party. In my world, a profit is necessary to develop a business. Ida Gabrielsson will surely find examples where you have collected huge profits in private companies. But often it is generalized quite a lot. Many of these groups engage in a variety of activities. It is not certain that it is just a school that you run, but you may run a lot of other activities as well. Not all operations need to be run in Sweden either. To just hip a little and say that you have taken out this and so many millions does not always give a correct picture of what it looks like in real life. Indeed, private schools receive as much money per pupil as municipal schools. Then it is very strange if they manage to make such a big profit and at the same time have at least as good results. But again, the important issue here is to ensure that we have quality requirements. Ida Gabrielsson claims that quality could not be measured. But how could a public service be developed? It is clear that quality can be measured. You can do that in any business. It's just a matter of having the right methods. It is clear that quality can be measured in municipal care or in municipal school, just as it can be measured in private activities. Those who do not meet the quality requirements shall also not be allowed to continue their activities, whether private or public. It's no stranger than that. I note that Ida Gabrielsson thinks it is perfectly okay to release a government that does not want a profit ban. Yet she is standing in the speaker's seat and boasts that the Left Party is the only party that is in favour of a ban on profit. It doesn't make any sense.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-420	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson is on the Finance Committee and should be able to see that the Left Party does not have 51%. As I said, we were the only party with this idea. Something we'll do until the others get the gauntlet and choose to stand up for it. Jan Ericson says it's possible to measure this kind of thing in a sensible way. I mean, it's wrong. Instead of mixing up the cards, Jan Ericson should respond to what makes the Moderates not feel that 40 million could have been better used to raise school results in Söderhamn or Rinkeby, where child poverty is greatest, instead of going to share dividends. How can one say that it is better quality because someone has managed to run a school in Östermalm and neglected to be in areas where the students may not have as highly educated parents? That's the difference. It is not possible to measure in the same way as in other contexts. Jan Ericson has seen our calculations and suggestions. I think he knows what we mean by setting a profit cap and limiting profit distribution in welfare. If you continue to run a high-quality business and invest, that's fine. If you put the money in your own pocket – or are doing pure crime, as in the example I preferred – there is something that we think the money could rather be used for, and that is welfare.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-423	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Finance Committee's report No 26, Municipal issues. It is a report which deals with a wide range of sports requests from the general period of exercise, over 30 of which deal with various issues in the municipal sector. These include conditions for activities in the area of welfare, compensation systems for welfare activities and the so important system of cost equalisation between municipalities and between county councils, to mention some of the issues involved in this report. Madam President, I would like I would now like to support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations. Let me also touch a little on some of the issues covered by the report. First of all, I would like to mention what is termed "conditions" for activities carried out in certain welfare areas. The fact that issues relating to the core of welfare – care and care, school and health – and the conditions for the activities of welfare producers, municipalities and county councils have been the subject of intense political debate every day in recent years is not surprising and certainly has not escaped anyone. There have been strong and clear views in that debate to say the least. Madam President, I would like However, within the framework of the January Agreement, there is now an agreement on how these issues should be dealt with, with a focus where clear and high quality requirements should govern all actors in welfare. The more precise formulation of this will come back to the Government in the spring change budget that will be placed on Parliament's table in one month's time. It is quite natural, then, that the debate that remains and which is likely to recur in this area should be taken when those proposals are on our table. Everything else is just speculation, and I do not think we have any reason to contribute to that. Madam President, I would like The system of cost equalisation between municipalities and between county councils, which is an important part of the municipal income and cost equalisation system, has been re-examined. It is an investigation whose final report has been given the promising name A bit more equal – Review of cost compensation for municipalities and county councils. The system is complicated, to say the least, but it is subject to great interest. Yes, perhaps not from the general public, but from political leaders within municipalities and county councils for which it is very important. It is precisely there that welfare is produced in health care, education and health care. Therefore, the cost equalisation system is an important part of the welfare conditions. The aim of the system is to create, as far as possible, a level playing field throughout the country. It is an important instrument. But it is not simply, and it is probably almost impossible to achieve the 100% target. The system shall take into account structural, unenforceable factors. The system shall not take account of differences in levels of ambition. The system is an in-municipal system. I myself had the privilege of being part of the political reference group in the current investigation. It was extremely exciting and instructive. My respect for the complexity of the system has not become less, and my understanding of its weight and value has increased most significantly. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the lengthy process of formation of the government delayed the consultation of the investigation's proposals and consequently delayed a decision on their introduction. But the most serious thing is that the introduction of a new, corrected cost compensation system is delayed by at least one year, which is unfortunate, very unfortunate. Nevertheless, I look forward with excitement to the referral and further consideration of the proposal. Then we will also have the opportunity to debate this issue properly for municipal activity and for welfare in this House. Therefore, the issues raised in this report by the motions are very important, but they are a little early on. But don't worry, we'll get back to them. That is why, Madam President, I once again support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-434	Madam President, I would like I'll read something out: The prize hunt does not belong in Swedish welfare. A majority of Sweden's citizens and also a majority of the bourgeois and Swedish democratic sympathizers want to see an end to the pursuit of profit in welfare. They expect us elected representatives to solve the problem, not passively watch while billions are picked out in welfare. We will continue to listen to them and do the best we can in this matter. Only the best is good enough for the people. Madam President, I would like One would almost think that is said by any left-wing party. But, no, it's pronounced by Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi on various occasions in 2018. I must therefore ask Ingemar Nilsson how the Social Democrats think when they choose to completely drop the issue of a profit cap in welfare. The Left Party worked for a long time in a headwind. But after years of pressure from us, the trade unions and the voters, the Social Democrats chose to come to light in the previous period when we were still working together. Better late than never, we thought generously. The main thing is that we put an end to the loss of profits. Not least in view of what was revealed yesterday about slave-like conditions in the home service, my question is: Is this not how you see it anymore?
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-438	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Gabrielsson! I don't want to say that the last thing you said was forgery of history. But it is on the verge of falsification of history if you want to claim or insinuate that we as Social Democrats as well as significant parts of the labour movement would have been eager advocates of profits in welfare historically. It is on the verge of a grave forgery of history. There is a phenomenon that has occurred during this journey. I would still like to say that we essentially share the same view. But unlike Ida Gabrielsson, I see some things that have happened during the trip. On 9 September 2018, we had a general election in Sweden. The election results gave a majority of around 60% in this House for a completely different policy than the one we stand for. Unlike the Left Party, we realize what the political landscape looks like and certain realities. Unlike the Left Party and Ida Gabrielsson, we believe that we are doing more good and can conduct a better political activity by trying to take responsibility and make it as good as possible than by writing demonstration plaques in the gallery. That is a little bit what Ida Gabrielsson is doing at the moment. We must realise that there is a political reality. We are not strongly in favour of profits in welfare. But we are in favour of being involved in influencing political reality.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-442	Madam President, I would like Ingemar Nilsson is happy to explain to me how to draw up fine agreements and how to cooperate with bourgeois parties by writing this type of 73-point programme. As a representative of a power party, I am sure he has much better control of this. Madam President, I would like Ingemar Nilsson does not need to explain to me what it looks like in Swedish welfare and what should be done. I've been on class trips where some have been left behind in the schoolyard because they can't afford anything else. I've seen friends' work in home care get so tough that they can't take it anymore. I worry about what will happen to my child when she starts school and how I can take care of my parents when they grow old. That is why, despite Ingemar Nilsson's defence speech, I must ask again whether Ingemar Nilsson and the Social Democrats do not see the same thing. To me it is quite clear.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-445	Madam President, I would like I can concretize the question. It was a repetition of the first question, I suppose. I and the Social Democrats are not in favour of any unregulated activities in the public sector or in tax-funded activities. We do not acknowledge extreme gains in welfare. But we take into account a political reality. Our ambition and entry into this is to do things as well as possible. We believe in more influence than sitting in the gallery, going into opposition and not being able to influence anything. Then it is a question of having a political responsibility for the situation that prevails. It is also about fighting for good conditions in the labour market and pushing the union demands for a sensible working environment. This is what Ida Gabrielsson mentioned earlier about the conditions in the home service. It is, of course, a political responsibility for the employer. But it is also a trade union question. It is about ensuring that we have a strong functioning trade union movement where the parties take responsibility for what the conditions on the Swedish labour market look like. It is not something that I think we dictate in detail from here to the pulpits in Parliament. We will maintain the Swedish model. Then, at the national level and at the local, municipal and county level, we will take responsibility for offering as good work environments and working conditions as possible at all. We do not do that by going in opposition and saying: we are protesting. We do so by influencing politics as far as possible, taking into account the ruling we have received in the elections on 9 September.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-452	Madam President, I would like Although health in Sweden is generally good, mental illness has increased since the early 1990s. Mental illness dominates among new sick leave, and the proportion of young people suffering from mental illness has gradually increased. Mental ill-health is becoming one of our biggest public health challenges. Today, we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's reports on the assessment of work capacity in mental illness and insurance-medical decision support. Sickness insurance is an insurance against loss of income in the event of incapacity for work – not against the disease itself. This means that we are entitled to compensation when we are unable to work because of illness. But if, despite the illness or the damage, we can actually work, we should do the same. It is a reasonable order, but it also means that the assessment of work capacity is crucial for those who have had the bad luck of injury or illness. It is the health care system that makes the diagnosis and makes the assessment of whether we are sick or not. It is then up to Försäkringskassan to assess our ability to work, and it is therefore extremely important that communication between them works and that Försäkringskassan has the basis they need. It is clear to me that this is not working well enough today. I see clear conflicts between the health care system and the Social Insurance Agency's handler around the country. I also see in many cases out in the country traces of shortcomings in communication where people feel they have been unfairly treated. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office has highlighted several areas where the policy support needs to be developed. These include how the aid should be used in cases of co-morbidity and how it can otherwise be applied more uniformly and predictablely. We Social Democrats want health insurance and a treatment that means that those who are ill and unable to work should have the right to rapid rehabilitation back into work and financial security during the time it takes. Safe insurance is a predictable insurance policy. You'll understand what's happening and how to get back. This is not the case for everyone today, and it is unacceptable. Therefore, changes are also made. Among other things, the Government has agreed with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils to provide incentives to the county councils for measures that will contribute to developing the sick leave process within the healthcare sector. It is about improving the quality of medical certificates and facilitating communication between healthcare and Försäkringskassan. One example of such a measure is the development of electronic medical certificates, which are carried out jointly by Försäkringskassan, Socialstyrelsen, SKL and Inera. The introduction of electronic medical certificates in new versions and in several case laws is implemented gradually. Another example is that incentives are given to county councils in order to ensure that doctors and other relevant staff have sufficient knowledge and competence in insurance medicine to be able to carry out their work in the field of sick leave and rehabilitation, including writing certificates. On 25 January this year, I met parts of the Insurance Medical Committee, which is working on this very subject in my home country. It was a fruitful meeting where I strengthened in my opinion, which is now also confirmed in the Swedish National Audit Office's reports. Exactly one year before, on 25 January 2018, the Government gave the Social Insurance Board and Försäkringskassan a joint mandate to work towards improved cooperation and dialogue between the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the health care system regarding the process of sick leave and medical certificates. The assignment includes creating a common understanding of the parties' prerequisites for competence and opportunities within existing legislation and objectives, including the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's need for evidence and the actual prerequisites for delivering such data. It also involves deepening the analysis of the differences between the actual periods of sick leave and the recommendations of the medical decision support, and in particular the attention and analysis of how it can contribute to better communication and how it can be developed. The mission shall be finalized on 30 June. However, in its assessment in the reports, the government states that it was already shown in the interim report last summer that, within the framework of this mission, an analysis is carried out of both variation within the recommendations as well as proportion of cases of illness that are longer than the recommendations, with deepening in certain diagnoses and the presence of co-morbidity. It is also clear that the authorities intend to carry out an in-depth analysis of the use of and the view of the Social Insurance Agency on the aid for decision-making. Previous studies have only analysed how sick doctors use and perceive the support. Madam President, I would like It has been the task of the National Board of Health and Welfare for several years to continuously monitor, update and evaluate the policy support. The National Board of Health and Welfare has received special funds to carry out this task, which, with the 2017 Budget Bill, became a permanent reinforcement of their funding. In a report to the Ministry of Social Affairs last year, the National Board of Health and Welfare has reported on both implemented and planned efforts regarding the insurance medicine decision support. The report shows, among other things, that they have worked with the overall principles of sick leave during 2017 and the diagnosis-specific decision support in the area of psychiatric diseases. It is also clear that the National Board of Health and Welfare intends to continue this work, and the work to further develop decision support continues. Madam President, I would like The committee has issued a notice to the government to review the medical decision support. In view of the fact that a number of measures have been taken, as the Government has done in its assessment, as I have done here today, we do not see any reason for Parliament to make an announcement. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-466	Madam President, I would like The report we are now debating deals with two reports by the Swedish National Audit Office on the assessment of work capacity in the event of mental illness and on insurance-medical decision support.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-468	According to the report, sick doctors experience uncertainty about the requirements of the Social Insurance Agency within the framework of the sick leave process. Doctors also find it difficult to describe the patient's disability in the medical certificates as there is a lack of examination and test results. According to the report, doctors do not have sufficient knowledge of insurance medicine and psychiatry, and they find it difficult to explain clearly to the patient how the regulations and conditions for sick leave work. According to the report, there is often a lack of time at the meeting with patients, and doctors feel that the work on sick leave is administratively burdensome. A 30-minute visit by the medical practitioner should assess the patient's disability and a work ability assessment. For a person with mental diagnoses, a doctor's visit can in itself involve such a great pressure that it is difficult for the individual to adequately describe his or her symptoms. A person with depression often sits at home because you are unable to meet other people. You are often sensitive to sound and to rapid events, and often the person is unable to handle questions and demands from other people. Madam President, I would like The decision support that Försäkringskassan has is not adapted for mental diagnoses and therefore becomes a blunt and difficult-to-work support to the medical doctor. Many doctors who write sick people consider that the administrative burden is high and that it is difficult to make an assessment of the reduced work capacity and the extent of the disability caused by the mental diagnosis. For many, it is not work that is the reason for mental illness, but it is the only thing you can be on sick leave from. It's hard to get sick from life at large. Madam President, I would like All people define their own health based on their own context. The interaction between illness and health is easy to intuitively see, but it is difficult to draw boundaries between them. Disease often creates a feeling of ill health, and perceived poor health can affect how you experience your working conditions. Similarly, the concept of work capacity is difficult to define. The ability to work depends entirely on the job in question. The same diagnosis of illness can mean that the work capacity either disappears completely or is not affected at all. How does a broken leg affect the work capacity of an official sitting at a desk compared to an asphalter? How does changing the diagnosis to a lighter depression affect the work capacity of these two people? The simple, yet deeply complex, answer is that there are always tasks that are both possible and impossible to perform for the same diagnosis. Madam President, I would like Over the past year, the number of sick leave with the diagnosis of mental illness has increased to a large extent. There is still a vast majority of women who are on sick leave due to mental illness, 70% women versus 30% men. The general trend is that the number of sick leavers in other diagnoses falls in number, but in psychiatric diagnoses the number of sick leavers continues to increase. Often when it comes to different psychiatric diagnoses, there are several different diagnoses to take into account. The Social Insurance Agency's decision support must be reviewed so that it can be better adapted when it comes to so-called co-morbidity. Madam President, I would like A person who suffers from fatigue syndrome, for example, may not be sick at all in the home for a long time, as the workplace itself may be part of what is behind the disease. It is not reasonable to wait three months before examining whether there are other tasks of the employer that the person can perform. Nor is it reasonable to wait six months before raising the question of whether the person should remain working with his employer at all. I believe that at an early stage it should be examined whether the sick person would feel better from other jobs or from another employer. Madam President, I would like The Moderates share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that there is a need for a review of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's model for insurance medical analysis with a focus on the so-called DFA chain – diagnosis, function, activity – especially in the area of psychiatric diagnosis. We also believe that Försäkringskassan should be allowed to set clearer quality requirements for health care providers who print out health certificates. In addition, the Social Insurance Agency should be given the task of continuously monitoring and reviewing the pattern of sick leave of different health care providers through administrative registers. Unfair differences and deviations from the policy support can be quickly detected and investigated. We also believe that early rehabilitation interventions, before sick leave, are better placed to prevent future sick leave than an increased return to work among already sick leavers. In conclusion, I support the committee's proposal, except in paragraph 3, in which I support the Moderates' and the KD's reservation No 6.
i-DvebFbgxqkvh5gjy6DRweY	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision under paragraph 1 and for the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2 under paragraph 2. We are debating today, as has been mentioned earlier, the Social Insurance Committee's report 13 on the Swedish National Audit Office's reports on the assessment of work capacity in mental illness and insurance decision support. For a long time Sweden has been a country with high basic social security, but unfortunately many feel betrayed today. Many certainly believed that the Social Democrats, led by Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll, would lead a more humane policy for health insurance, but instead politics has become tougher and insurance policies have increased avalanche. Today, people are being secured long before the re-debated and criticised deadline imposed by Reinfeldt, and it has become almost impossible to receive sickness benefits. The government's savings are at the expense of the sick and the vulnerable. Madam President, I would like Of course, the aim must be that those who can work should also work. Those who are ill must be given the best possible rehabilitation with the aim of being able to return to work, but at the same time there must be security for those who actually cannot work. Particularly worrying is the increasing mental illness in Sweden. Mental illness is the most common cause of sick leave today, and a large majority of those affected are women. There is a great need for strengthening and increasing skills throughout the rehabilitation chain. Madam President, I would like Being affected by mental illness is one of the most difficult things a person can go through. There are no simple solutions. Maybe you can't see it on the outside. It can be hard to put words into words. But the inner pain can be unbearable, so unbearable that some unfortunately choose to end their own lives. Before joining Parliament, Madam President, I worked as a social teacher in psychiatry and before that as a nurse in acute psychiatry. The fate you face is sometimes very difficult and touching, but with the right treatment and treatment there is hope for improvement and recovery. But then there must also be room for time and for people to take small steps forward on the basis of their own life situation and individual ability and hopefully, for those for whom it is possible, to return to work. To experience in the midst of this crisis that you are not understood by Försäkringskassan in terms of how mental illness can affect work capacity, to be met by a rigid system primarily made for physical diagnoses and to perhaps be met by a rejection of sickness benefit or sickness benefit where you do not understand the justification does not make things any better – rather much worse. The Swedish Democrats therefore look with great concern at the observations presented by the Swedish National Audit Office in their review report Assessment of work capacity in mental illness. The design of the medical prescription process and the basis on which doctors are based are clearly not adapted to the psychiatric diagnoses which are, unfortunately, becoming increasingly common today. According to the report, the assessment of the ability to work in the event of mental illness is so poor that there is a risk that the regulatory framework for health insurance will not be applied in a uniform and legally secure manner. The Swedish National Audit Office's report on medical decision support examines whether the medical decision support affects how doctors indicate sick leave diagnosis and how the Swedish Social Insurance Agency handles and investigates sickness benefit matters in cases of mental illness. It shows that there are too many variations in the interpretation of decision support, especially in cases where the person concerned has multiple diagnoses simultaneously, so-called co-morbidity. This means that many individuals get caught and are not treated in a legally secure way. Madam President, I would like It is therefore very gratifying that a majority in the Social Security Committee today, supported by the motion requests of the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party, will present an announcement calling on the government to initiate a review of the Social Insurance Fund's model for insurable medical analysis and the use of the insurable medical decision support, especially in the case of co-morbidity. As I said, I support the committee's proposal in paragraph 1. It is a pity that the Social Democrats and the Green Party have reservations. I think we should have been able to reach agreement here. Although things are already being done, I think that the government parties could support such a review. Nevertheless, I hope that after the announcement the government will address this issue and initiate this review. All in all, we look with great concern at developments in health insurance both during the previous and during the current term of office. We have been touched by many human fates in which the sick have come under pressure, especially those with mental ill health. The Swedish Democrats are therefore by far investing the most resources of all parties in a more humane and sustainable health insurance system. Among other things, we invest 100 million in an improved sick leave process and a strengthened rehabilitation chain. We also believe that the skills to respond to people with mental illness must be strengthened throughout the rehabilitation chain, as we emphasise in our reservation 2. We also believe that there must be more room for personal meetings and individual assessments. We also believe that the assessment to be made at day 180 in the rehabilitation chain is too rigid and difficult to interpret and does not take into account the individual's situation. At day 180 there are a great many insurance policies, and according to a report from the Social Security Inspection, the assessments are not of sufficient quality. In view of this, we propose that, from day 180, only professions in their own area of competence should be tested, rather than fictitious jobs throughout the labour market. Together with a variety of other proposals, such as flexible sick leave in small steps of 5 per cent instead of today's rigid system, retained compensation for part-time work, studies such as rehabilitation and simplified regulations for sickness benefit, the Swedish Democrats want to continue to fight for a more humane and sustainable health insurance.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-492	Madam President, I would like We have now heard clearly what this report is about, namely the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the insurance-medical decision-making support and the insurance-medical analyses that are being carried out. Here there are shortcomings," says Riksrevisionen in his report. It simply does not work, and there is no consensus on how sick leave should be handled and how the work capacity should be assessed when granting and assessing who should be on sick leave. Of course, it is not a body that is flawed in this context, but of course it is both the medical doctor and the Social Insurance Agency. The Swedish National Audit Office's report also shows that there are quality deficiencies in the medical certificates. The doctors believe that they experience uncertainty in the demands made by Försäkringskassan regarding how the process should be carried out in cases of sick leave. In addition, they believe that there are deficiencies in the examination and test results to describe a patient's disability. They also say on the part of doctors that there is a lack of insurance support, especially in the case of psychiatric diseases. Nor can they explain to the patient what regulations apply for sick leave. Försäkringskassan has developed a fairly clear model for how the medical analyses should be carried out. This shall apply to the link between diagnosis and disability and activity limitation. But the problem is that there are uncertainties in the medical certificates, says Försäkringskassan. In fact, it has been complained about for at least ten years, or at least as long as I have been active on these issues. However, the Social Insurance Agency is also in no way innocent in this context, because it has coordination responsibilities. This coordination responsibility is flawed, according to the Social Security Inspection. You simply don't live up to it from the Social Insurance Agency. Coordination responsibility means that Försäkringskassan has an obligation to have contact with the care, with the person who is ill and also with the employer. Of course, sick leave should be as short as possible. This applies, of course, to all cases of illness, but above all to mental illness. There you need to have a treatment as soon as possible, because the longer you are sick and the longer you are away from working life, the harder it is to come back. That is why contact with the workplace is extremely important, as well as having it, we believe, from the Center Party, at the rate that the sick person himself can handle. The Government says that it agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's views and recommendations for improvements in this area. At the same time, it is said that municipalities and county councils have received incentives to facilitate communication between Försäkringskassan, county councils and health care. In addition, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency have a mission to work towards a better cooperation and dialogue between the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the health care sector and to ensure that it improves even more. But they have not been able to do that either. An interim report was submitted in 2018 regarding the task it had to improve cooperation between Försäkringskassan and the healthcare sector. The final result shall be reported on 30 June of this year. Sweden's municipalities and County Councils have also received special funds to monitor, update and evaluate the insurance medical decision support. This was given an extended financial framework for 2017. Obviously, the measures taken by the government have not produced any results. You have to take this seriously and make sure you do something about it. Especially with regard to mental diagnosis, we cannot accept that it is not in every way possible to help people get back to work and receive the care they urgently need. Therefore, it is extremely important that we follow and review the insurance medical decision support and the Social Insurance Fund's model for insurance medical analysis. The Center Party is in favour of the proposal contained in the report. I would also like to support our reservation 3.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-501	Madam President, I would like I read a letter in NT written by the assistant nurse Monica this week. She explains what I think many people experience in today's labour market and writes like this: I have worked as a assistant nurse in home care in Norrköping municipality for about 18 years and worked earlier in Stockholm. I have enjoyed very well and like my patients – older people who have created our welfare. But that's enough. I've had enough. I quit my job. There was something I didn't want. I am 61 years old and have four or more years left to work, but that's enough. I have about 20, sometimes more, patients every day, some of whom are very care-demanding. But I feel that I am not enough to do good work with good quality. I have about 15 minutes per visit, and that's not enough. Please do something, Norrköping Municipality and my bosses! We can't take it anymore. I, who used to work in home care myself, can really relate to this. Time aspect, 15 minutes per person, doesn't work. Depression, prolonged stress, and fatigue are becoming more common. Today, these are the most common reasons for sick leave. Almost half of those on sick leave have psychiatric diagnoses, and it takes longer for those with a psychiatric diagnosis to get back to work than for people with other conditions. The biggest increase has been in the diagnosis of adjustment disorders and reaction to severe stress. The Union showed a few weeks ago that seven out of ten civil servants generally feel stressed by the job. It's a pretty big increase. Being constantly available reduces recovery, but the main reason for the job stress is a high workload. However, the highest stress-related ill health is among occupational groups working in welfare professions in the publicly funded sector. The reason is stated: The requirements are high, but there is a lack of resources to carry out the tasks to be carried out. More and more workplaces are putting endless pressure on people. In fact, sick environments and workplaces break down healthy people. Even healthy persons who have their body under pressure and stress for a long time become exhausted. It is, in fact, a sound response to an entirely unreasonable state of affairs and unreasonable demands. Work life researchers who work with this mean that it is about increased so-called efficiency. Imbalance between requirements and resources in workplaces is the most contributing cause of the development of stress and mental illness. We are expected to be able to do as much or more but with fewer people in the workplace. Many people who tell the workplace that stress is too high are told that they themselves should lower their level of ambition or think about going home on time and so on. I mean, it's an individual focus. In fact, it is managements, politicians and managers who must create structural conditions in the workplace in order for people to be able to do their jobs. Two years ago, the Swedish Work Environment Authority started a national supervision of elderly care. It is workplaces that have high sickness rates. In nearly 90 per cent of the cases, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has made demands to correct shortcomings in the work environment. What the Swedish Work Environment Authority highlights is once again the balance between workload and the resources available in the care of the elderly. The pace is too high, and the tasks are too many in relation to the time you have, which is very psychologically stressful. The work is clear that it simply risks people's health. This, in turn, is linked to accidents at work. High stress increases the risk of performing tasks in a more risky way. It is also a question of new employees not getting a good enough introduction because there is not even time for the regular staff to carry out their duties. There needs to be the opportunity and time for knowledge replenishment and competence development. And you have to know what to give priority to when there's a shortage of resources and time. This situation makes me very frustrated that the current government has promised to further impair the welfare staff's working environment. Remarks at 90% of the workplaces in the elderly do not seem sufficient to change that course. The government is now planning to further reduce revenue to the state and thus reduce resources for elderly care. This will be the effect of up to 70 – 80 billion in reduced revenue. In fact, we would have to increase revenue by about the same amount. Madam President, I would like It goes beyond my understanding that you can prioritise, for example, tax reductions for Swedish directors by 67 000 SEK per month, by removing the defence tax, instead of reducing the strain damage and sick leave for the staff in the care of the elderly. Then I think you have hardly been in a situation where you have had contact with a nursing home, needed home help or talked to a nurse. New jobs of half a million people in the welfare sector up to 2026 are needed to maintain the current level. At the same time, we are getting older; the proportion of older people will increase. Tasks will increase in the care of the elderly. Family members, the elderly and the municipalities expect older people to be given even more jobs. Therefore, maintaining today's level will not be enough. The slim workplaces also make it difficult to return after a period of sick leave. Rehabilitation and work training are difficult if the workplaces are so slim and stressful that regular staff can barely handle the pace of work. It is difficult to get back to a workplace that is ill, which may have been the reason why you got sick from the beginning. Thus, even for the sake of work training, there needs to be a balance between requirements, control and workload. Today, the result of the resource shortage and demands for profits and budgeting seems to lead to more administrators, middle managers and management that will set schedules and control their devices to, as it is said, streamline. Then you get things that the staff in the home service in Gothenburg, for example, have now protested against: minute control, monitoring and unreasonable working hours without understanding that the care and care work with people. A lot of different things can happen during a working day. When staff are not allowed to control schedules and working methods, it creates loss of control, which further increases the stress level. The major cuts in health insurance, which the current and previous governments have made, naturally affect those people who need it most. The assessments should become tougher, more mechanical, fit into square models about exact time limits and be linked to what is called objective survey findings. All this should be done in order to be able to save and have the opportunity to reduce the tax by 67 000 SEK per month for the CEOs in Sweden. I am concerned to read the Swedish National Audit Office's report. All of this creates different ways of reducing payments. The greater focus of health insurance on medical certificates, for example, is not only on those who have applied for sickness benefit but also on the doctors. It is difficult for many to understand exactly what Försäkringskassan requires in the sick leave process. In addition, mental and fatigue disorders have other types of progression and examination and test results have even more physical injuries. Another example is 26-year-old Martin, who SVT has reported on. He has received activity compensation from Försäkringskassan since 2013, due to an intellectual disability that makes him unable to do his job without a supervisor who coaches him all the time. But because of the new tougher assessments Martin has lost his remuneration and been sent to Arbetsförmedlingen. The next day he will of course be discharged from Arbetsförmedlingen, because he cannot work, and referred to the municipality's social office. The Left Party believes that health insurance should not work that way. Martin should not apply for support from the municipality. Health insurance is in need of major reforms. We believe that there must be more scope to give the insured person better treatment, to make an assessment that takes social considerations into account, to history, age, educational background and so on, as an investigator at the Swedish Social Insurance Agency considers important. Administrators need to speak to the insured person more often, seek contact and dialogue with the various actors and the insured person in order to gain an understanding of the problem. You shouldn't just turn it down and move on. If we only have administrators who assess a medical certificate, as we are doing now, and move on, they can soon be replaced with computers and robots. We don't believe it. Overall assessments are needed to make a meaningful assessment of a person's work capacity. For this reason, we want a review of decision-making support to be carried out. I therefore support our reservation 4.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-522	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal. But, of course, I support our reservations, and for time to come, I only ask for the approval of reservation 5. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats do not want to let go of the perspective that if we are to succeed in reducing sickness rates in real and long-term terms, preventive work is central. It is not enough just to focus on the workplace and the problems that may arise there. There is a need for a policy that contributes widely to reducing stress and creating good conditions for improving public health. The opportunities for each person to gather their unique life puzzles are influenced by the policies pursued in a wide range of areas. Here is the question whether politics has a focus on directing and shifting people's lives or whether politics aims to continuously create better conditions for individuals and families to get their everyday lives together. Mr President, I would like to Here today we have two letters from the Government based on two review reports made by the Swedish National Audit Office, which looked at how psychiatric diagnoses are done. Mental ill health is growing rapidly. Almost half of all sick leave is diagnosed with mental illness. Moreover, these sick leave are on average 70 per cent longer. So it is easy to understand why our ability to handle this wisely is definitely important. The management of the security systems must work in the way we wish, otherwise that puzzle of life will be completely impossible to put together. That much can break so fast. Social security schemes must provide security during the period when the capacity to work is wholly or partly limited. It will also lead the individual back to work. However, uncertainty was probably the word that most clearly stuck to me after I had read these two audit reports. There are uncertainties related to the lack of quality in the medical certificates, the ability to assess the ability to work as a doctor in the case of sick leave with psychiatric diagnoses, the use of decision support in the case of mental illness and the Social Insurance Fund's handling of sickness benefit matters in the case of mental illness. This applies not least to what is called co-morbidity, i.e. the person who is ill has two or more conditions at the same time. The incidence of these diagnoses on the last medical certificate has increased from 12 to 43 per cent between 2007 and 2017. I think it is very nice that we in the committee have received a majority to announce to the government that it is going to review the Social Insurance Fund's model for insurable medical analysis and the use of the insurable medical decision support, especially in the case of co-morbidity. Mr President, I would like to In reservation No 5, we Christian Democrats highlight the individual and his and her need for clearer information. What is the assessment when someone is going to receive sickness benefit? What is the basis for such an assessment? We believe that this is necessary in order to create a greater understanding of how the assessment itself is done, for example, to make it clear that the medical certificate is an important part of the assessment but not the only one. The Swedish National Audit Office has highlighted this problem in its report Assessment of work capacity in mental illness – a process with major challenges. The doctors themselves describe that the double roles they have are difficult to reconcile. They must be the patient's treating doctor and be a medical expert and assess the ability to work and issue medical certificates in cases of sick leave. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office also points to the lack of time that exists in the meeting between the patient and the doctor. It is noted that in the event of an emergency visit, the actual visit time between patient and doctor is between five and ten minutes. We all understand that this is unsustainable. It is far too short a time, but it is not the only problem. The doctors say that it is difficult to assess the work capacity of the individual and to clarify the patient's disability and activity limitation. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that health care and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency must agree on a common approach and approach in the sick leave process in order to avoid time-consuming administration and also unnecessary costs. I read the Swedish National Audit Office's two review reports in such a way that in them the individual's situation is indirectly in an absolute focus. There is a desire that the individual should not be squeezed and exposed to unnecessary anxiety while waiting for the Social Insurance Agency's decision whether to be entitled to sickness benefit or not to come. When the Swedish National Audit Office writes that a number of signs of a lack of consensus between primary health practitioners and Försäkringskassan as to whether it is possible to measure and grade disability in cases of mental illness, it is self-evident that the Swedish National Audit Office's comment is correct, an explanation that we Christian Democrats have presented this motion request and support it. This sentence points to the fact that the individual cannot reasonably meet this level of information and be helped to understand his/her situation if the primary health practitioner and the Social Insurance Agency do not agree on how it should be done. So steps need to be taken to ensure that the individual is faced with a situation when he or she feels bad that makes him or her understand where in the process he or she is and what is waiting. We Christian Democrats would like to see these measures and therefore think that it would be appropriate for the Parliament to announce to the government that these tools must be developed. I therefore support Amendment No 5 by the Christian Democrats.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-540	Mr President, I would like to Public health is generally good in Sweden. It has also improved for a long time. Many are actually well and healthy, but there are exceptions. The main exception is mental health. Anxiety, anxiety, sleep problems, and stress have increased in recent decades. Today mental illness is by far the most common cause of sick leave. This applies both to women and to men. It is also about long periods of sick leave. You get away a long time from work. This is a huge social problem, which is also growing. According to the report submitted in January, which included coordinated interventions on mental health, the total cost of mental illness in 2015 accounted for 5 per cent of gross domestic product in Sweden. That figure has probably increased. This places demands on us decision-makers, on health care, on the authorities – in this case the National Board of Health and Social Insurance – and on the assessments that are made to rehabilitate the sick, become healthy, get back to work and, above all, regain quality of life. Long-term work is needed. Many actors and all sectors of society are involved. In this case, we are talking about working life and assessments in health care and at Försäkringskassan. Nevertheless, I would like to mention something that the previous speaker also mentioned: we must not forget prevention, and we must not forget young people and schools. Mental ill-health often makes early onset low in the age group, and it also gets more and more early. If you're in trouble, there's a great risk that your school years and your education will suffer. This can lead to life-long health risks and lifelong suffering. We need to make improvements in psychiatry, not least youth psychiatry, and get more educated psychologists at health centres and in pupil health. We need to invest in particularly vulnerable groups, such as LGBT people and especially young people, and make efforts for suicide prevention, and strengthen school and counteract stress. In addition, we need to think about the rating system, which is something that many young people today experience as very stressful. Mr President, I would like to The audit reports that we have on the table today deal with decision support and assessment of work capacity in the case of mental illness. It is about the chain from the contact between patient and doctor to the assessment and decision of the relevant authority, i.e. Försäkringskassan. It is also about decisions on levels of work limitation and work capacity, levels of compensation, sick leave periods and so on. The whole thing is about the frustration and powerlessness one who suffers when the Social Insurance Agency may have made a different assessment of one's illness than the one that the treatment doctor has made. This problem is raised in the public investigation that I mentioned earlier. The investigators stress the need for evidence-based methods and working methods that raise skills, continuous learning work. It puts a much greater focus on the individual. As ill, but also my relatives, I am involved in the decisions, and we are given greater influence over the entire assessment process, in order to understand what is happening and how the diagnoses have been made. I think this is worth pressing. As we have heard, the Swedish National Audit Office has identified a number of problems and shortcomings. It is difficult to assess the ability to work in cases of mental illness – much more difficult than in somatic, physical, diseases. This is because there is a lack of knowledge and research. Above all, however, it may be because there are so many individual differences. Both the human psyche and the life attitude as well as the nature of the disease linked to the work to be done and the tasks that the individual patient has vary very much. However, the Swedish National Audit Office also points out that doctors find it difficult to make correct assessments, provide clear descriptions of the effects of the disease in terms of reduced work capacity and make the necessary values. There are some ambiguities and shortcomings in communication between healthcare and the authorities that lead to quality deficiencies in the assessments. This is particularly true when it comes to multiple diagnoses for the same patient – what is called co-morbidity. This makes the assessments more difficult, and the administrators simply make different interpretations of the decision support and the basis they receive from the doctors. The Government therefore considers, with good reason, after reviewing the reports, that there are improvements to be made to develop cooperation between the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the health care system, and to strengthen dialogue and communication between doctors and administrators. In January last year, the Government also gave a mandate to the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to ensure that cooperation with the healthcare sector is strengthened and that there is a common understanding of the conditions and bases needed to ensure that the assessments made are as good as possible. That assignment must be reported before the summer. There are also several parallel investigations under way, including the investigation that I have talked about before that came in January. The committee's report mentions a few more. We have also heard of them earlier in the debate. Mr President, I would like to Let's wait for the work in progress. Let's see the Swedish National Audit Office's reports as important contributions to that work. I will end by calling for the rejection of all motions and for the approval of the Social Democrats and the Green Party's reservation No 1 and the proposal in the report as a whole.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-555	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. The outdoor life in our country is extensive and reaches many social groups. Swedish nature is used through tourism, sports and recreation. It is also important for regional development and therefore important for the industries that interact and shape the conditions for a vibrant economy in a vibrant rural environment. Public health and sport have strong links among themselves, and sport is a large sector with strong resources when compared to outdoor life. However, both are important for public health work. An important initiative in this area is the half-bare amount rule of the Social Security Act, which, for example, applies to the Swedish Sports Federation. Compensation for sportspeople from non-profit associations for the purpose of promoting sporting activities is provided for in Chapter 2. Section 19 of the Social Security Contributions Act, free of charge, if the compensation during the year has not been half a price base amount. However, Swedish outdoor activities with their 26 sub-organisations are not covered by the half-ba amount rule. The Swedish Tax Agency believes that the text of the law states that it should be a specific case for sportsmen and sportsmen to apply the rule. Thus, it is sports organisations that are affiliated to the Swedish Sports Federation that are primarily concerned with, but also activities such as, for example, outdoor activities with a sports orientation. When, on this basis, we are forced to define, on a case-by-case basis, what is considered to be sport and what is considered to be other interests, problems arise. Mr President, I would like to This rule is well-motivated and plays an important role in public health work – thus not saying that it cannot be improved. The problem description includes not only the question of what promotes public health, but also the interest in a coherent approach and what actually justifies charges. Critics have said that, even if we were to extend this rule, difficult boundaries would remain, and that would even create an even more unclear system. However, I believe that there is an extremely clear difference between the associations that occasionally choose activities with a focus on sport or outdoor life and those that engage in some form of sports or outdoor activities on a regular basis. What we propose in our reservation, and which is the very purpose, is that more people are given the opportunity to participate in activities that benefit their health and well-being, which strengthen recreation and our country. Public health promotion should not be reserved for those engaged in sport at a professional level. The daily exercise is declining today, and the natural relationships to movement, exercise and stay in nature are becoming fewer and fewer. To overcome this negative trend, efforts are needed, and part of it is to strengthen the position of outdoor life in society and facilitate the activities of organisations in the field. Svenskt Friluftsliv works not only to create the best conditions for outdoor life in Sweden and that the member organisations should be strong but also to raise the status of outdoor life in society and to care for and protect the right of public access. In conclusion, we believe that the Government should return to the Riksdag with proposals that organisations affiliated to the Swedish Friluftsliv should be covered by the exemption in the Social Security Fees Act in the same way as organisations affiliated to the Swedish Sports Federation.
i-5xETMiKegqBJ7SZoaPKNtc	Mr President, I would like to We are now dealing with the Social Security Committee's report No 15 on social security contributions. I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the committee's report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. What we are now discussing is one of the most fundamental elements of our welfare system. The motion report deals with motions and proposals in the area where we lay down contributions to the financing of health insurance, parental insurance and old-age pensions. These are absolutely fundamental areas for how we have chosen to organise and finance our welfare in Sweden. The alternative to this system is for everyone to finance their safety nets through private insurance. It is a system that would lead to greater gaps and that many people would be without a social safety net. If we are not to steer towards a less solidarity-based and more individualised system, it also means that we must stand up for the funding of our welfare that we are now debating. We need to analyse all the effects of proposed tariff reductions, even in cases where tariff reductions can be heartwarming and well-motivated. There should therefore be strong social interests and profits to justify changes in fees. Knowing how important the system is for the financing of our welfare systems, we know that the fees are a large part of the company's cost of hiring staff. We can think about reducing fees for companies to hire another employee and thus reduce unemployment. Such proposals are now being prepared within the Government Office. According to an agreement between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals, we are now looking at what incentives can look like so that young people get their first job. For us Social Democrats, it is important in such a discussion that the measures are accurate and not general. If social security contributions and social security contributions are to be used as employment policy measures, subsidies should go to what they are intended for, in this case to make it easier for young people to get a first job – not to public contribution relief. Having said that, it is important that the debate should always be conducted on the basis of the areas to be financed, i.e. health insurance, parental insurance and pensions. These are areas where a large part of social security contributions go. We Social Democrats, together with the Green Party, and during the last parliamentary term together with the Left Party, have taken the first steps and have soon completed the abolition of the special pensioner tax. We are now looking across the parties at how the pension can last the entire pensioner's life. From a social democratic point of view, we also want more people to retire after working for an entire working life. Then it is important that, when we discuss social security contributions, we have the objectives of our policy ahead of us so that we do not lose sight of what we are going to fund and thus reduce employers' and social security contributions to a mere burden on companies. While we say that they are a cost to businesses, we must keep on bearing in mind that social security contributions are livelihoods when you get older. They will give a good old age and a safe retirement life. Social security contributions are the opportunity to pay bills when you are ill and the opportunity to be at home with your children when you have had the happiness to get them. Social security contributions are therefore not a cost to businesses. They are an income for the state in order to pay for our jointly funded welfare.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-569	Mr President, I would like to Social security contributions, i.e. social security contributions and social security contributions, are charged to cover the social security system. We are trying to maintain a clear link between the fee and what the fee is supposed to pay so that it becomes clear and transparent where the money is taken and what it pays. This is how we strengthen the legitimacy of the system. However, exceptions are made, and this case is essentially about the possibility of such exceptions. We have some motions to deal with today on the subject of exemptions, in this case the reduction or abolition of employers' contributions for certain groups. It is about young people who may find it difficult to enter the labour market. It is about small businesses for a growing business. It is particularly a question of sparsely populated areas, of differentiated employers' contributions for small businesses in sparsely populated areas in order for the whole country to live. These are laudable purposes that are highlighted in the exercise. Young people and small businesses as well as rural areas have special needs for this type of action. We should add, for example, the establishment of new arrivals to that list. There may also be other groups and purposes. As the committee's report also puts it, work is under way in this direction at the moment. The agreement reached between four parties in January, what we call the January agreement, includes, among other things, a reduction in employers' contributions in general and a complete abolition of contributions for young people under the age of 18. The January Agreement also has an important point on green tax exchange. SEK 15 billion will be tax-exchanged during the term of office. This means increased environmental taxes and reduced taxes on, in particular, labour and entrepreneurship. The green tax shift will steer towards more sustainable production and consumption. We need to phase out coal, oil and other things that are very damaging to our climate and to our planet. That is why we are increasing the tax on fossil fuels, for example. We need to reduce the use and emissions of toxins and dangerous chemicals, and we need to reduce the amount of dangerous particles in the air that go into the lungs when we breathe. That is why we are increasing the tax on dangerous products, for example through the chemical tax, and on environmentally harmful production. We must ensure that this is done fairly so that it is not those with the worst conditions who have to pay and it affects low-income people, young people or, for example, sparsely populated areas. That is why the green tax shift should be designed so that we have a fairer society. Canada has a system in which environmental taxes provide green bonuses directly to its citizens. We would need to investigate such a system in Sweden as well. The sparsely populated municipalities with the greatest challenges will then get back a large part directly, for example through reduced employers' contributions. There are now a wide range of proposals from the government that promote climate justice and strengthen the sections of society and the labour market that we need to strengthen, such as young and newcomers and those who otherwise stand a bit from today's labour market. Employers' and social security contributions are an important piece of the puzzle in this work. Mr President, I would like to As we know that there are many proposals under way, both now in the spring amending budget and in the budget proposal for 2020 and for the rest of the term of office, there is no reason to rush at this point. I therefore propose rejecting all motions for resolutions and motions for resolutions and voting in favour of the committee's proposals as a whole.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-580	Mr President, I would like to The forest is one of Sweden's most important resources. Historically, the forest has built Sweden's prosperity by creating jobs and growth throughout the country, but also by exports creating stability in troubled times. Forests have not only been historically important. It will also take Sweden into the future. With the green carbon atom from the forest, we can build virtually everything our future society needs. We can make fuel, construction materials, chemicals, paint, fabric etc. This transition is already in full swing, but in order for Sweden to fully exploit the potential of Swedish forests, long-term political rules are required. This is about long-term rules for companies that will deliver the innovative products from the forest, which is why the Center Party wants to see a bioeconomy strategy. We therefore call for the approval of reservation 27. But after years of uncertainty and polarisation in the debate, long-term sustainability also applies, and not least the forest owners who will supply the raw materials. At the same time, Swedish forestry policy is based on two equal goals: production and the environment. It is important to safeguard biodiversity and to ensure that important natural habitats in the forest landscape are maintained and preserved for the future. But what is unique about the Swedish forest model is the fact that half of all forests in Sweden are owned by individual landowners. This means that today there are many hands that manage the Swedish forest and the Swedish forest protection and thereby create diversity. Swedish forest owners, not least family forest farms, have for several years taken a major responsibility in environmental work regarding the protection of forests and valuable nature. Active ownership is a prerequisite for long-term sustainable forest, and therefore these actors must be seen as an indispensable part of environmental work. The principle of freedom under responsibility on which Swedish forestry policy rests has served us well. That is what we want it to do in the future. If we want to continue to have a strong commitment to Swedish forest management with its diversity and committed local farming – which often also involves forest grazing, conservation of nature, local bioenergy solutions, game conservation and hunting and recreation and outdoor life – Swedish forestry policy and forest protection must take greater account of and involve the individual landowners. That is why today's debate is so important. On the one hand, we handle the Government's response to the review of protection of a valuable nature presented by the Swedish National Audit Office, and on the other hand we handle the forest movements submitted by members of Parliament during the general period of exercise. In the report, the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture proposes that the Parliament should make an announcement and call on the government to hook arms with like-minded forest countries in the EU to stand up for national self-determination in forestry issues and to ensure that the model of freedom under responsibility that characterized Swedish forestry is not threatened by the EU. Mr President, I would like to In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office criticises the government on a number of points regarding the state's overall efforts to protect valuable forests. Overall, the Swedish National Audit Office believes that the state's efforts can be more cost-effective. It is noted that the forms of protection and compensation currently available are not entirely appropriate. It is also noted that the monitoring of the areas reserved for protection is inadequate. We simply do not know well enough whether the values that we once wanted to protect are still there. An important entry point for the Center Party in terms of protection of a valuable nature is that we trust the commitment and ability of landowners. Valuable nature may need more protection, but at the same time it often means that ownership and use rights are restricted. It must be self-evident that owners and users should be replaced for the restrictions imposed. It is totally unacceptable that forest owners should live in uncertainty as to whether they will receive compensation and, as in the case of the mountain forest, actually need to sue the state in an uneven David-to-Goliat struggle. Clear rules on compensation in the event of restrictions are therefore absolutely necessary in the future. This is also a reason why the Center Party in the budget negotiations is pushing for those forest owners who expect compensation to be able to get it. A cost-effective way to protect soil is to use state productive forest land, for example from Sveaskog, as replacement land when creating nature conservation areas. This allows protection of a valuable nature, while ensuring that forest owners receive reasonable compensation. Another way to increase forest biodiversity is to make greater use of ecological compensation and schemes to create and sell credits linked to measures that reduce negative impacts on ecosystems or biodiversity. This may be part of creating cost-effective methods of protection of a valuable nature. The Center Party welcomes this review from the Swedish National Audit Office. Tax funds to protect forests should be used effectively and primarily to protect forests with the highest natural values. The approach should be transparent and build confidence among the public and private forest owners, and here we see that the current forestry policy needs to be strengthened, not least after the four almost lost forest years we have behind us after the past term of office. Mr President, I would like to For a long time, Swedish forestry policy has been characterised by conflicts, both between organisations and stakeholders as well as between government and opposition. Many forest owners testify to uncertainty as to where Swedish forestry policy is heading. The January agreement involves many concrete measures to strengthen Swedish forestry and the Swedish forestry industry. The Center Party sees this as an important part of achieving stability and a clear direction in Swedish forestry policy. The Center Party has been given the floor to call for greater legal certainty for landowners and businesses through better compensation for infringements of the right of use. The national forest programme will be developed to promote the forest industry, with a focus on improving the conditions for companies and forest entrepreneurs. The Species Protection Regulation is to be reviewed in order to become more legally secure. The agreement also puts an end to further key biotop inventory, which is something that has caused great concern for many forest owners. As I said, Swedish forestry policy is based on freedom under responsibility, and we want to continue to protect this by means of clear legislation and an exercise of authority that helps forest owners and does not create uncertainty and insecurity. In recent years, the implementation of new legislation as well as new practices from authorities has led to court proceedings, which rightly upset forest owners in Sweden. We in the Center Party want to see an end to this, and a key element of the January Agreement is therefore a review of the relevant legislation and, not least, its application. The direction of forestry policy in the next parliamentary term therefore has clear commitments to strengthen the competitiveness of the forest industry. But the Forest Protection Act has two equal goals – production and the environment – and during its term of office the Center Party also wants to ensure that Sweden's national and international commitments regarding environmental objectives can be met. In order to have a knowledge-based and up-to-date starting point, responsible authorities will be tasked with reviewing the area of protected forests and proposing new forms of protection – all in order to ensure good biodiversity in forests, but in a cost-effective and legally secure way that rewards forest owners' conservation work rather than penalises them. Mr President, I would like to As I said at the beginning, long-term rules of the game are now required for Swedish forestry policy. Forestry is long-term and often spans several generations. The seedlings that grandfather or grandmother planted can be used by grandchildren, and in between, withdrawals from the forest often need to be made to pay interest or get loans for a new investment. Long-term and predictability is therefore central to Swedish forestry policy. Forest owners must be able to rely on the information that authorities and politicians give them and be able to count on the value of their forests not being taken away from them. During the next term of office, the Center Party will do our utmost to ensure that the Government and the Riksdag really implement the measures for enhanced ownership of forest owners, a developed bioeconomy and a good biodiversity for which there is now broad support in the Riksdag. I very much hope that the uncertainty and polarisation that have characterized Swedish forestry policy in recent years can thus end. Now is the time for order in Swedish forestry policy!
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-602	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report No 8, the protection of valuable forests. I choose to endorse only the Moderates' reservation No 27, but of course we support all our reservations. The Swedish forest is perhaps our most important natural resource. Of the world's forests there is 1 percent in Sweden, but we have 10 percent of the world's production in terms of wood, pulp and paper. This is because we have 300 000 private Swedish forest owners, who are extremely committed and passionate about their forest. They have, in an exemplary way, taken care of their forests for generations and built up not only natural values but also timber stores. In the last 100 years we have doubled the Swedish timber supply in the forest. This is fantastically well done, and it has been done with freedom under responsibility, which has always characterized Swedish forest production. The Swedish forest generates 125 billion net each year and is thus an enormous part of Swedish welfare. This means that we need to continue to give forest owners the opportunity to make a profit – not to increase special taxes on fuel or, as there are ideas, to introduce taxes at a distance, which will actually only directly affect primary producers. There's not a railroad all over the woods. In the Swedish National Audit Office's report The protection of valuable forests is criticised for not thinking about quality in the protection that has been introduced many times, but more in terms of quantity. It has been chosen to protect many hectares of forest when it might have been enough to protect one hectare, because the natural value was no greater than that. But it was easy to draw an area that was, for example, five hectares. The Moderates have received some criticism that we have reduced the forest protection budget. Yes, we have. One of the reasons for this is that even the Swedish Forest Agency itself cannot at present say whether we have achieved the goals of the amount of protected forest. We do not really know how much protected forest we have; we may have already exceeded the targets. We have reduced the budget because we want to wait and ensure that forest protection takes place in a legally secure manner and does not interfere too much with property rights. The government itself says that today we have protected approximately, I believe, 31 percent of Swedish forests, which are not used for production. You can still ask yourself how much we're supposed to protect? Are we supposed to protect 35, 40 or 50 percent? How much can we afford to protect? We must land in that there is also an economic thought in this. We will of course protect valuable land, but we have to stop now, think about it and let Skogsstyrelsen come up with their report where they tell us how much forest we have really protected. I have an example of how natural values can be changed and changed. I talked about six months ago to a forest saber who had a 150-year-old pine forest, which had been managed over the years as a production stock. We are talking about perhaps three generations that have built this up as a stock of production. Now it was time to harvest the 150 - year - old forest and take home the profits for the long - term work done. The quality tribes were still in place. When a logging report was made, the answer was no – it is not possible, because there are high natural values here. Well, said the forest owner, how do you mean? Well, the forest is old, was the answer. This makes no sense. So here a family of three generations has managed a pine stock to harvest the fruit after 150 years, and then you must not touch it. Nor is it reasonable to have to go to court to reap your forest. We Moderates are also in favour of a bioeconomy strategy. Forests are perhaps the most important part of our climate transition and today account for about 80 percent of climate gas emissions. Garantine for us to be able to address all these climate gas emissions is that we have a high production, and production means growing forest. Old forest that stands does not bind new carbon dioxide, it is growing forest that binds carbon dioxide. So we need production. A bioeconomy strategy will in this way lead to new innovations. There's a great deal you can do with the forest today. These are new products and, above all, fuels for the conversion to fossil-free fuels. What is needed for us to achieve results with a bioeconomy strategy is of course long-term rules for forest owners. I said earlier that it was three generations that had built up a pine stock. When we talk about the forest, we talk about generations all the time. Long-term is extremely important. A farmer who sows a hectare of wheat will hopefully harvest it in the autumn unless wild boars eat it or trample it down. But if you plant pine today, the stock may be harvested in 110 years' time. Long-term rules of play are very important. The announcement of national self-determination in the report is important. Sweden has wisely managed its forest for a long time. There are bad examples in Europe where they have not done so. Sweden and Finland are leading countries when it comes to taking care of their forests. I told you earlier, we've built up a lot of wood. This is because we have managed our forest wisely. Mr President, I would like to Almost three years ago, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency made criticisms regarding the Species Protection Regulation. It stressed the need for a review. The Species Protection Regulation is not applicable, effective and legally secure at present. The government has still not been able to launch this review. From what I understand, it's still in the Government Office for Preparation. I just wonder, is this going to take three more years, or is it going to happen? When does that happen? Forest owners need to know, and the authorities also need to know that in order to be able to respond to forest owners in a legally secure way. The key biotop inventory is a majority in this House to stop it. In our budget, we also said that this must stop. We need to review the key biotop inventory to see how it becomes legally secure and how we meet forest owners in a proprietary way. Today they feel threatened instead. It's like someone's coming to put a dead hand over the woods. In principle, you can harvest it, but no one wants to buy the timber. No certified sawmill will use wood from a key biotope. You can burn it in the stove, but stoves will soon be out of use. Mr President, I would like to Ownership is an important foundation of democracy and a market economy. But many are increasingly concerned about the erosion of property rights. This is particularly true of the green industries. I am thinking of key biotopes, the species protection regulation, the extension of rights of speech in relation to the effects and abuse of public access rights, as we often see today. It affects property rights and individual primary producers. That is why I am pleased – or perhaps rather concerned – when the January agreement mentions a ownership inquiry. It is an investigation that we Moderates have been saying for a long time that we want to do for the green industries. The problem with a ownership inquiry in the new configuration of the January agreement is that I am not as sure that a government with the Social Democrats and the Green Party is as careful with ownership as a moderate-led government would have been. I hope the Center gets a lot of influence there. They have many wise insights into property rights. It is extremely important that property rights are now protected and that Swedish green industries have continued to have good confidence that they will increase their profitability in the coming time, both to cope with the climate change and to pass the food strategy, so that they can get back to agriculture. It is clear that land with very high natural values should be protected. But good communication must precede, and compensation must always be paid. We probably need to calm down the protection right now, until we have an investigation that shows how much more forest we should protect. Mr President, I would like to A wise person has said: When it comes to ownership, the Moderates are cargo man standing.
i-MDkUgmEoXbtk3SUxXKWcYX	Mr President, I would like to We in the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only call for our reservation 13 and for reservation 27 from M, KD and C on the need for a bioeconomy strategy. The Government has submitted to the Riksdag a letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the protection of valuable forests. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the state's activities to rapidly increase the area of protected forests have intensified significantly in recent years. This has been done not least on private land. The Swedish National Audit Office therefore makes a number of comments. They are much about finding more cost-effective methods and approaches that can give greater acceptance to forest owners. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we welcome the fact that the government in its letter agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office that the work on forest protection can be more cost-effective and that functional management is also an important tool. The total ban on the use of forests is rarely justified for species protection reasons, but costs a great deal, both in money and in a loss of confidence on the part of foresters. We would particularly like to highlight the Swedish National Audit Office's emphasis on the fact that the landowner's right to compensation for infringement is constitutionally protected. The consequences of this finding are, in our view, insufficiently analysed in the Government's letter. The Swedish Forest Board has for many years tried to establish a practice that means that up to 10 percent of a planned logging income can be prevented by the Swedish Forest Agency without compensation. This practice is based on an absolute maximum level set out in a report of the Committee on Housing in 1986/ 87. We do not think it is appropriate that the tolerance levels for what could be maximally tolerated in the residential building sector in 1987 should be used as a basis for significantly increased forest protection measures in 2019. In addition, as I said, it is about what you expect to be maximum in terms of what a landowner will be able to bear. It is not an average and not an area target for the officials of the Forestry Board or the County Administrative Board. It is worth noting that the Swedish Forest Board does not include key biotopes in these 10 percent. The Swedish Forest Board considers that it is not responsible that the landowner loses the opportunity to sell its timber as a result of the Swedish Forest Board having registered a key biotope. However, there is half a recognition that the Swedish Forest Agency states that it wants to provide compensation if more than 5 percent of a property's total area becomes key biotope. It will then be a matter of prioritising such landowners when establishing biotop protection areas or nature reserves or signing a nature conservation agreement. This means that forest owners will accept without compensation that up to 5 per cent of the area becomes key biotopes is suspiciously similar to forest management certification systems FSC and PEFC, which also provide that forest owners to be certified should set aside 5 per cent of their area. But by setting the same level as in the certification systems for when compensation is to be achieved for private landowners with a high proportion of key biotopes, the Swedish Forest Board has thus copied the certification conditions. However, it should be noted that certification is voluntary and not a state decision, and that not all forest owners are certified and do not have to be. The state should not make decisions based on the group of forest owners that are certified, but should act neutrally. There has been a sharp increase in the various measures taken by the Forest Board and the County Administrative Boards to stop or limit fellings, often without these forests having been formally protected and without the landowners being compensated for the losses involved. This has, of course, led to a number of problems linked to the right of landowners to be able, within a clear and objective framework, to decide for the long term how they want to manage their forests. We believe that what has happened has to do with the Government's ambition to increase areas excluded from forestry. But the focus is more on area targets than on actual benefits. We would like to focus equally on the motivation for long-term forestry, on the forest industry's need for timber and on the future need for bio-based materials. Mr President, I would like to In this context, the Swedish National Audit Office points out that nature conservation agreements with the landowner may be more appropriate but that the use of this form of protection by the authorities is reduced. We also believe that the Swedish Democrats should increase the use of nature conservation agreements for the following reasons: They are less of an intervention than a take-over in the form of reservations or similar, from the point of view of the landowner. They lead to better proportionality between restrictions on ownership and the desired outcome. They admit – and it is very important – that the landowner can influence what is agreed on his land. They can provide an ongoing bee income in cases where conservation management is included in the contract. They do not have to exclude all fellings. They can be adapted in terms of surface area and care to changes that occur, in terms of both knowledge and soil conditions, over time. They are more cost-effective. That is what the Swedish National Audit Office also pointed out. The Swedish National Audit Office is asking for statistics that clearly show how much protected forest Sweden has, divided into different categories of formally and informally protected forest. These figures must also include impediment and mountain forest in order for us to be able to make international comparisons and for ourselves to know what we have protected. On behalf of the Swedish Democrats, we want to add that there is a need for a searchable database with data on all protected forest stocks, including the key habitats, whether or not they are classified as protected, so that a real evaluation can be made of where we stand today. In order to better control future conservation measures, we need available facts about what we have already protected. For example, it is necessary for the state to have a basis for determining which key biotopes are actually to be formally protected. And it is needed to know what types of key biotopes we have too little of or what types of protected areas we have too little of, so that in our work we focus on the right things. When we presented our budget, we asked for a moratorium on new key biotopes until such an evaluation had been carried out. Unfortunately, there was no moratorium because the January agreement is only about not expanding the key biotopes – we wanted a temporary stop for them. I would therefore like to reiterate this request today. It can be quite fast to get to such a database, and it is really needed. I would also like to take this opportunity to urge that the Species Protection Regulation be recast in order to become less obstacles for forest owners, as the government promised in May 2018.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-649	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 8, the protection of valuable forests. It is about a report from the Swedish National Audit Office and about the government's letter in relation to it. On the day I even wear a tie with pine trees and a tie pin with a pine tree. You would only know how important the forestry industry has been to Sweden. I'm a third generation forest worker, and I've got two sons in the business. I would like this House to have a proper presentation of what the forestry industry has meant for Sweden at some point. I am convinced that it has meant a lot. You can think what you want about the forest, but it has meant a lot. I'll get back to the subject. The Swedish National Audit Office points to many things. I think a few things they point to are good. They often point to quality rather than quantity. They point to some things that have happened in northern Sweden versus in southern Sweden. Then I come to a few things that often come up. It's biodiversity. I do not think anyone, even the most enthusiastic advocates of the forest industry, would say: these species are not important. We'll run them over deliberately. We don't need them. I don't think anyone would want to say that. Then it is valuable forest. If you ask ten people in Sweden, I think you get ten different answers. It may differ a great deal in terms of what they consider valuable, but I will come back to it later. Then it is the environmental objective Living forests, according to the 1998 bill. I will read a little, Mr President, what it says: The value of forests and forest land for biological production must be protected while preserving biodiversity and protecting cultural and social values. Among other things, it is clear that natural and cultural environmental values in the forest should be preserved and developed. Threatened species should be able to recover in all natural geography regions. The functioning of the forest land should also be safeguarded, as should the various ecosystem services of the forest, such as water treatment, carbon capture and biomass production. Forests are a renewable resource to be managed in such a way that they are sustainable in yielding good results while preserving biodiversity. Then there are the equal objectives. Many have believed that we got them in 1993 – production targets and environmental targets. With regard to the environmental objective, it is said that the natural production capacity of the forest land should be preserved. Biodiversity and genetic variation in the forest shall be ensured. The forest shall be managed in such a way that plant and animal species that naturally belong in the forest are given the opportunity to survive under natural conditions and in viable stocks. Protect threatened species and habitats. The cultural values of forests and their aesthetic and social values must be protected. Then I'll get into endangered species. There are 900 species that are said to have a bearing on forestry. They are redlisted, and in some form it may matter if you do not do this. Of the 900 species there are 750 in southern Sweden and 150 in northern Sweden. In southern Sweden there are about 70 hectares that are protected by threatened species. Today, in northern Sweden, we have over 3,000 hectares that are protected by threatened species. What does that say? Somewhere, some watch should start ticking. What should we focus on if there is something that needs further protection? It is clear that we should protect what is safe and unique – and unique environments – for future generations. That's it. Then I come to nature types. Let's say we have 50 hectares that are protected because it's something unique. There may be biological values. There may be plants. A natural type that is unique is protected. Then you apply for permission for 40 hectares 1 kilometer away. There's higher values. It is exactly the same value, but it may also be something else. Then you want to protect it too. I think that's okay. But I am thinking of the 50 hectares that have been protected since before. There should be a discussion about whether this can be replaced, because it is better to protect the area with higher values. I think that discussion will continue. Then I come to the cultural values. I've made logging plans and I've come across coal bottoms. There are tens of thousands of coal bottoms in Sweden. I could run into maybe five, six during a logging plan. Then I'll protect these coal bottoms. I'm allowed to harvest them with the highest men and mark them, but I'm not allowed to reforest them – fine. Do you think anyone will ever visit them? No, no one ever in Sweden. Instead, perhaps we should protect one of them, the best and perhaps the one close to the road, so that you can look at it. Cultural values are good, and they should of course be protected. But I do not think that the whole picture of this has been given. With regard to environmental objectives, there is also a reference to aesthetic and social values. You can google the word aesthetic. It says: tasteful, comfortable, stylish, stylish, beautiful, appealing, striking, pleasant, artistic, beautiful. Mr President, I would like to According to the letter, the Government is continuously working to improve the strategic implementation of environmental objectives and provide good conditions for outdoor life. There I can imagine that the tasteful, beautiful and stylish values come in. But if you ask the outdoor people where they want to stay, they say: This is nice. This is where we want to stay. What kind of forest are they in? Well, it's usually managed pine forest. There are berries. There's mushrooms. It's nice to go there. Those who want to be in the tasteful and beautiful environments do not want to be in a forest that is protected, where no one has been. It's not so fun to go there. There's a lot of sly, and it's not so nice there. These areas are protected because there are other values. That's the way it's supposed to be. Of course, we will protect what is unique and valuable. But, as I was into, what is valuable forest depends on who you ask. It can distinguish a lot between different people. There may be a village where 200 people lived 50 years ago. Some have fought their way back and have managed the forest. There's no harm in some people building a cabin there and staying in the woods – it's good that they get there. But for those who have managed the forest, it is valuable when it is to be harvested, while those who stay there find it valuable if it remains. There's the conflict. We must at some point have the historical description of the forest, so that we can move forward in what we are going to do in the future. Mr President, I would like to What about the production target? Here's what it says: our forest and forest land are to be used efficiently and responsibly so that it produces a sustainable good yield. The focus of forest production shall give room for manoeuvre in the use of what the forest produces. ..................................................... I can only comment that I would not be able to look my grandchildren in the eye and say that we pushed through a forestry policy that unfortunately means that you have about 30% of the timber share that we got, because we had a kind of forest management that made it not nice. I've made many mistakes in my life as a forest worker, and I'm not proud of everything. This management led to a high production of forests, but we do not need to do the same in the future. I'm convinced of that. We won't. We will have to abandon urban areas and such. That we could have made a giant revolution with another kind of management, I don't believe that. If you're going to do it, you should do it on the right land, and the Forests Board can do it there. There are those who are always in favour of continuance forestry instead of community farming, and you can certainly have that. But it will be a very small part. I'm in favour of reservation 11 so that I don't get back homework. It points to milestones in the area of bare-cut forestry, and that would not be wrong in itself, but then it should be in the right place. We can't turn it into a playground when we're going to have production in the forest. Then I just have to say something about the species protection regulation. I know I am passing over time, Mr President, and I apologise for that. However, I am not alone in it; I have clocked those who have spoken. When it comes to birds and the Species Protection Regulation, I can guarantee, my friends, that if I take the skis and go a mile west of me, without a forest road or anything, and make a fire, it's a lichen there within half an hour and want to split my pork from the frying pan. That's it. It's coming there. If I do a logging plan and see that there's a nest there and know that there's a lot of people in control of that hen, I'm exempting two hectares for this hen. Then it happens that the felling will be there in the autumn. Then I'll come over there and shoot the skier! I can shoot the next morning, and nobody can say anything about it. But when it nested, I had to protect it. Somewhere in the discussion we need to overcome these goals, because forestry is such an important industry for Sweden. The environmental movement has done very well. Otherwise, we might have made these mistakes to this day. As I began, Mr President, I am not proud of everything I have done, but forestry has meant a great deal to Sweden.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-679	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I did not think I would say this from the speaker's seat in the Swedish Parliament, but now I have to boast of a left-wing party. It was sweet music to hear Birger Lahti, and that he went over his speaking time did nothing, at least I would say. Of course, I support all our reservations, but I would like to ask for reservation 2 on the investigation of property rights and reservation 27. During the spring, Parliament will consider proposals in forestry policy from the general period of exercise. Nevertheless, we would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the need for nature conservation in the forest, while taking account of forestry and ownership and use rights. As we have heard earlier here today, forestry and forest industry industries are responsible for the largest net export income in Sweden. It provides jobs in rural areas and sustainable development throughout the country. The forestry industry employs around 120 000 people in Sweden, and for each job two more jobs are created in subcontractors. At the same time, it creates a basis for public services that provide additional jobs in areas such as welfare and trade. In order for Swedish forestry and the Swedish forest industry to develop in the future, we need comprehensive long-term and sustainable rules that promote both production goals and environmental objectives. Forests should also respond to the demand for people's needs for recreation. Living forests with biodiversity are a prerequisite for human well-being and health and also provide important ecosystem services, such as air and water purification and the capture of surplus substances such as nitrogen. The preservation and sustainable use of biodiversity are objectives which, of course, constitute general interests. Forests are an important part of climate action. As forests grow, it binds carbon dioxide that continues to be stored in wood products. When we replace products of oil or concrete with products of wood, our climate impact is reduced at the same time. This is extremely important to take with us for the future when we are going to change. Mr President, I would like to In recent years, ownership and use rights in the forest have come to be threatened in several ways. The application of the Species Protection Regulation and the key biotopes concept as well as the investigation proposal on the right of associations to appeal against logging decisions are examples of this. These developments are very worrying. The government seems to want to tell the landowners that it's okay that you own forest but not that you use it. This means that the Swedish forest is secretly socialized, which is something that must be resisted. In our budget motion, we point out that we should introduce a moratorium on new key biotope classifications pending new legislation. We see this as extremely urgent, not least from the point of view of legal certainty. We therefore welcome the wording in the JÖK that the extended key biotop inventory should not be resumed. It's a step along the way. Mr President, I would like to In recent times we have had several high-profile legal cases in this area, and I'm going to spin on Birger Lahti's words about the tjäder. The latest thing in the line that I have brought with me is the so-called feather judgment of the Land and Environment Court in Växjö, where the court states that there may be a right to compensation but that the landowners then have to sue the state in a separate action. The fact that landowners have to sue the state in order to have their fundamental rights satisfied is a completely unreasonable order. Furthermore, there are other wordings in the judgment that would have enormous consequences for forestry if they were to be applied. In the last four years, an average of 17,000 feathers per year have been shot in regular lawful hunting. It is then remarkable that the presence of a species thus allowed to be hunted would lead to a total ban on forestry in large areas. The Christian Democrats believe that the current legal uncertainty is unreasonable. A parliamentary inquiry should be set up with the task of proposing a policy with positive incentives for nature conservation considerations in forest management. This study will look at, among other things, the Species Protection Regulation and the rules around key biotopes. The state should see the private forest owners as co-players rather than as counter-players. Often it is precisely through the long-term management of individual forest owners that high natural values have been created and maintained. At present, those who have forests with high natural values are punished. Many landowners are clearing or felling to prevent the emergence of safe environments, contrary to what should reasonably be the government's intention. An investigation also needs to be set up to review how ownership can be strengthened in the agricultural sector. Mr President, I would like to The report is very clear in its criticism of the search for quantity rather than quality, something that others too have mentioned in the past. We Christian Democrats agree with that criticism and want to make it clear that it is not the number of hectares set aside that should be the aim but that the land set aside by bears a high level of biodiversity that is important to preserve. During the years 2006 – 2014, the Alliance Government set aside 100,000 hectares of Sveaskog's land to make land changes to sheltered land. According to the evaluations, this programme was cost-effective and provided 60 000 hectares of protected forest. A similar exchange programme with state forests should be implemented again. Productive forest land from Sveaskog, Fortificationsverket and Fastighetsverket should be transferred to a new company to be used for land changes with private forest owners. Mr President, I would like to The natural values that currently exist in the Swedish forest and that have not yet been formally protected are usually found on privately owned land. The reason for this is that forestry on state-owned land has been carried out more rationally and with purely economic starting points. On the other hand, the diversity of management and farming styles that have existed on the land of individual ownership has resulted in more varied types of natural habitat. 330 000 different forest owners automatically give a diversity. The Christian Democrats propose that the state should launch a programme to sell productive forest land in state ownership to private foresters in order to increase the variation in the active forest. Already in the 19th century, when chronoforests were sold to private individuals, it was seen that the new owners of forests managed them considerably better than the state did. We Christian Democrats believe in property rights and the ability of individual people to use their forests under the guise of freedom under responsibility.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-697	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 8, the protection of valuable forests, which is based on the Swedish National Audit Office's review and the government's letter. We support the announcement by Parliament to the Government of the need to ensure that national self-determination in forestry issues is safeguarded. Otherwise, I would urge that all motions and reservations be rejected and that the proposal in the report be approved. We in the committee have already stated that there is a broad consensus that Swedish forestry policy should be based on the equal objectives of production and the environment. A fundamental part of Swedish forestry policy is forestry sector responsibility and the freedom of forest owners under responsibility. Production of forest raw material is important in a transition to a bio-based society. It is important to phase out fossil energy. It is also important that the forest is properly managed in order to ensure long-term biodiversity and to ensure that we do not have attacks from spruce bark drills, which it is actually about. We have a larger proportion of forests damaged by spruce bark drills than by the fires this summer. I think that should be borne in mind. The focus on achieving Sweden's environmental objectives is solid since it was decided by the Riksdag in April 1999. In particular, the objective of living forests provides guidance for further efforts to achieve sustainable forestry. We Social Democrats are pleased that we are four parties that have contributed to the January agreement and that we have decided to set up a study during this year to review how international commitments on biodiversity can be reconciled with a growing circular bioeconomy. New legislation as a result of this investigation is planned for 1 July 2021. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats think that the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the state's work with the protection of valuable forests is good and highlights issues that we have had for a long time. Work on forest protection has so far focused largely on area targets and percentages at national level. In order to achieve the objectives, work should also focus more on the quality and long-term functioning of the areas. This requires knowledge of protected areas, protection needs and voluntary provisions. This requires a higher degree of long-term strategy, careful planning of areas and protection of the areas actually to be protected. An updated knowledge base is therefore essential for the authorities to be able to work strategically and minimise the number of cases initiated today through logging notifications. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office's report states that the investment in the 2018 budget on a national key biotop inventory is urgent. I share the view that the predictability of forest protection work is important for forest owners. We can also note that, when new knowledge of protected areas is added, an up-to-date needs analysis should also be carried out to clarify any remaining protection needs in order to achieve these long-term goals, not least for the free and mobile outdoor life, based on the fact that we are a long country with many regions with quite different conditions. The question we ask ourselves is who should be responsible for the existence of such knowledge. So far it has been Skogsstyrelsen and Naturvårdsverket via the county administrative boards. It is also about sectoral responsibility. Since the proposal for equal targets came in 1993, the Swedish Forest Board has worked through the tool key biotopinventory. We now believe that new tools are needed, as the key biotope tool has unfortunately become more and more of a scolding word. No matter what comes out there, no one feels you want to stand behind it. It's either too little, too much, completely wrong or in the wrong place. We should clarify what will come afterwards. The Swedish National Audit Office also points out that the Government and the authorities should take into account that the costs of protection may affect the form of protection used and the compensation paid. The right-wing conservative parts of the Swedish parliament – M and KD supported by SD – seem to have forgotten that, in order to strengthen property rights, the parliament decided to introduce new remuneration rules for expropriation and other situations where properties are used under coercion. The new rules led to fairly substantial increases in the remuneration of property owners, and especially for forest owners. Here we have old laws and practices that give forest owners a far-reaching right to compensation, which means that money is required. Then you cannot uninhibitedly cut back on this appropriation and stop the agreements that have been concluded. We need in budgets to ensure resources for compensation to landowners. The budget for valuable nature will therefore be reinforced by the January Agreement. The Swedish National Audit Office's report also points out that there is a need to clarify the meaning of the so-called sectoral responsibility, in terms of the responsibility of the state and the landowner to meet the environmental objectives, especially in view of the fact that small forest owners are being squeezed. We rarely hear that SCA, Holmen, Bergvik or Sveaskog get caught. It's about the small forest owners. We Social Democrats share this picture. How, then, can we stop hitting numbers in each other's heads and agree on how to ensure voluntary provisions and how to adapt sector responsibility both to the conditions of large forestry and to the small forest owners? The Swedish National Audit Office asks the question: Are state resources used for formal protection cost-effectively? The Swedish National Audit Office's assessment is that there is room to improve the cost-effectiveness of the formal protection work. Cost-effectiveness is strongly influenced by strategic planning of areas worthy of protection, choice of form of protection and the design of compensation. Not least, the protection needs to be spread. Birger Lahti described here earlier so exemplary that we have a number of mountain municipalities where the protection of valuable land makes up 75 per cent or more of the entire municipality's land. It is then understood that it may not be in these municipalities that special efforts need to be made. The Swedish National Audit Office's assessment is also that restoration of development land is necessary in southern Sweden to achieve the environmental objective of Living Forests. There also needs to be a strategy for restoration. We share this picture. We also need to introduce social protection for mobile outdoor life, especially in and around the large towns, so that people living in this country feel that there is a forest in which they actually want to walk and stay. This is so that they won't believe that there's a predatory drive going on, which it doesn't. Mr President, I would like to The implementation of the Species Protection Regulation was poorly thought out and was done carelessly by the then moderate-led government. It was implemented in 2013 – 2014. It is therefore absolutely necessary to review it so that land areas can be effectively and legally defined while protecting the most endangered species. We need to be clear with the landowner about when you are entitled to the compensation. This is also what we are proposing in the January agreement, through an investigation and a new regulation to be implemented in 2021. The extended key biotop inventory is not taken up, but we need to find new, long-term and credible tools with industry and environmental organisations. Mr President, I would like to We have a lot of work ahead of us. Much of the legislation currently in force does not work in all its parts. It is therefore gratifying that, through the January agreement on secured ownership, new flexible forms of protection and compensation for soil protection and international commitments on biodiversity, we can reconcile this with a growing circular bioeconomy. A few words need to be said about the exchange program contained in the January agreement. I can see that Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson mentioned this, but perhaps he forgot to mention the following: In the Sveaskog programme that was started, and which is actually still continuing, 99 per cent has benefited the large forest industry. Only 1 per mille, 83 hectares, has been available for small, individual forest owners. I doubt it was meant to be. It may be that we have a joint responsibility here – that the authorities have totally misinterpreted both what the previous alliance government was doing and what the former S-led government was doing – but we can note that the outcome of the Sveaskog programme that has been implemented to almost 100% has benefited the large forest industry that should have taken on this responsibility through sectoral responsibility. These set-aside forests should have been used for small, individual forest owners who have actually come under pressure.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-717	Mr President, I would like to Isak From talks about the money for protection, and then let us make it clear that there was money in the budget for the dossiers that were closed. That money was there. Nor is it the case that all the money to set aside chips is removed from the budget, but there is money left. Perhaps it is more about the fact that you now simply have to correct your mouth after your lunch. We can't protect more land than there's money for. The idea of this was that we should not protect more land before we have received the Swedish Forest Board's investigation about how much more land we need to protect. We cannot continue in absurdity and protect more and more land. So I ask Isak From: How much are we supposed to take away? Should we take 35 percent – or 40 percent, or 50 percent – forest from production in Sweden? Is that what you want? We have done this because we want to calm down the pace of forest protection, so that the Forest Board has a chance to catch up and see how much more we need to protect and how much is protected. We should remember that the voluntarily set-aside forest represents many times more hectares than the forest that is formally protected. This means that forest owners, with freedom under their responsibility, choose to protect forests – to a larger area than the formally protected. You should never forget that. As for the species protection regulation and who staged it, I dare not really answer it, but it is three years since the Social Democratic Government received proposals from the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that it needs to be reviewed. That review has still not been initiated.
i-WkkJSTbV6E5DbwpBBbwhB8	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the opportunity to develop, John Widegren! We are now seeing throughout the country that there are severe cuts in the state authorities. This applies not least to Arbetsförmedlingen, which announces the closure of 130 offices. The Board of Forestry has given notice of all green jobs, and the payment of contracts has been stopped. These are the effects we now have to afford and clean up. In order to help John Widegren, who is new to the committee, I can see that all legislation relating to forests and forestry has been introduced under bourgeois governments. Right or wrong, that's it. The S-led government in the last parliamentary term did not change a single piece of legislation in this area. The implementation of the Species Protection Regulation was carried out by the moderate-led alliance government. Active forestry was not taken into account; it was designed on the basis of the protection of large areas.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-724	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to debate whether the authorities around the country are now doing various things because of budgets. We're talking forest now. I say it again, about the regulation on the protection of species: Perhaps it was the bourgeoisie that started it up, but for three years the Social Democrats have known that it does not work and yet have chosen not to make it right. That's remarkable. With regard to key biotopes, which we talked about earlier, I am very grateful that Isak From says that we should find new methods for that. I think that's a winning tune. As far as forest legislation is concerned, I have little to say about it; this was a budget issue. It was a matter of an authority correcting the mouth after the lunch. There are no clear figures as to what the day-to-day situation looks like. I think it is perfectly reasonable that this should slow down. It's not easy to go out and start protecting a lot of forest and then come afterwards and say, "Now we're removing the protection of this forest again, because it wasn't necessary – and the natural value isn't there either, because we're protecting a far too large area. It won't be good.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-728	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Sweden as a country, both in terms of biodiversity and forestry, benefits from the fact that we can agree on some basic principles. We have been behind freedom under responsibility, and it is important that we find figures that we can support in order to ensure that we are voluntarily deposed. It is important that we find ways to inventory so that knowledge reaches forest owners and forest owners can make the reasonable trade-offs that lie under sector responsibility. A budget bill is also a legal text, John Widegren. Now it became a napkin sketch, and it gets the authorities and the current government to handle to the best of their ability.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-730	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by saying that, as a result of the January agreement, in which the Liberals have been given a good ear to their policies in the field of climate and the environment, I will not be in favour of any reservations. Instead, I look at the time, as well as the work we all have ahead of us, and I will come back later. Mr President, I would like to However, if I were to speak in general on the issue of valuable forests, I would say that I think that almost all Swedes have a fairly close relationship with the forest. It is established through childhood forest excursions and excursions with family, friends and school. Many of us have a past as forest crumbs or scouts, and often we also have forest owners further back in the family line. It creates a good platform for us to value forests and nature through life and be able to see all its possibilities – and also pitfalls. The forest cleanses the air we breathe and maintains the balance of the atmosphere. Forests are crucial in addressing CO2 and combating climate change, and this is a crucial factor for biodiversity. The Swedish economy, and therefore all of us, is also dependent on the forest and has been so for several hundred years. In fact, it is difficult to say what the forest has meant to this nation and to all of us – and what it will continue to mean. Here, once again, we have one of the major challenges facing this committee: to balance the nutritional aspects on the one hand, and the environment and climate on the other, and the more libertarian issues of universal law on the other. Swedish forestry policy should be based on two equal goals, the production target and the environmental objective. Both the state and the forest industry have a great responsibility to protect forest ecosystems, preserve biodiversity and safeguard nature conservation and environmental concerns. Nature and biodiversity must be protected and preserved. We, like all plants and animals, depend on nature and biodiversity for our own survival. We have a responsibility to manage the environment and nature so that we leave a world in ecological balance to future generations. We know that forestry policy is a conflict area and that forest owners often do not have confidence in politics or even in the legal system. This is devastating and something that lies on everyone's shoulders to fight. Ownership is central to a functioning state, and I can reassure John Widegren and the Moderates that it is not only the Center Party that will monitor the issue in future investigations. What you own, you care about it too – we in the Liberals are absolutely convinced of that. And like the previous speaker, almost man-made has gone up and said, there is not a forester or forest owner who does not also want to preserve nature. It is inherited in this type of activity. However, if forest needs to be used by the state, it must be done in a fair way and of course with compensation that is reasonable for the person who is going to dispose of the forest. There must also be a long-term policy so that owners know what applies, especially in a business that goes through generations. Therefore, a review of rules is needed to strengthen incentives for sustainable forestry, such as improved replacement models for the formal protection of valuable forests, as well as a review of the application of the Species Protection Regulation and the key biotopes rules – this so charged word. From a liberal point of view, we also want to make greater use of the possibility of state-owned exchange land. The Liberals usually end up in the intersection between the Center Party and the Green Party, I usually say. We believe that the most valuable forest and key biotopes should be protected by nature reserves and national parks. The remaining natural forests – or old forests – must be protected. In the debate, it sometimes sounds like all forests are protected, but according to my information, 5% of the productive forest land in the country is protected. In addition, another 5% is voluntarily protected, which means 10% in total. I do not want a number bingo here – this is the data I have received in the past. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say a few words about the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the protection of valuable forests, which has previously been mentioned, because it points to many important issues that we have to deal with. It is estimated that the revised strategy of the authorities for the formal protection of forests needs to be complemented by a strategy for the restoration of development land in order to achieve the long-term objectives, especially in southern Sweden. The Swedish National Audit Office also believes that increased knowledge of areas worthy of protection is needed to achieve an effective priority and that an updated needs analysis needs to be carried out to clarify the remaining protection needs. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, there is a risk that in some cases the protection is made more extensive and more expensive than is actually required. For example, there may be a need to review the financial incentives to sign nature conservation agreements in order to increase the use of the form of protection, which is something that we from the liberal side fully agree with. Mr President, I would like to Now, if all of this is to work – we will succeed in balancing the two equal goals of forestry policy, the production target and the environmental objective – there must be broad anchoring, understanding and acceptance between owners, users, nature conservation movements and the public. Here, as I said, we all have important work to do. I would also like to add that in this debate it became incredibly clear to me why we must have MPs all the way from Skåne– Kristina Yngwe comes further south than I do – to northern Sweden. It's an elongated country. We all have different experiences, and every piece of the puzzle is needed. In Skåne we see more than five trees in clusters as a forest, but this does not really apply in the rest of Sweden. That is why this debate – which in fact almost became a debate – is very welcome, and I believe that together we can formulate a forestry policy that is modern and sustainable.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-748	Mr President, I would like to Forests are the basis for my political commitment and cause many debates. During the general period of exercise, 75 proposals were made on how forest policy can be developed, so there is a great deal of commitment. Most of these proposals are about strengthening ownership, increasing production and removing the knowledge base known as key biotopes. There is very little interest in preserving forest ecosystems in the interests of biodiversity. Yet 80% of land biodiversity is globally dependent on forest ecosystems. In Sweden, around half, 2,300 of all our red-listed species are linked to the forest. Mr President, I would like to The species are more threatened than property rights. In fact, property rights are not threatened. There's a lot of confusion here, so let me get this straight. Ownership is inscribed in the Swedish Constitution, think what you want about it. On the other hand, Mr President, there is something called the right of use, which is about the right to harvest their forests. However, if this is a forest of high biological value that is home to protected and endangered species, species protection can be prioritised. Examples of species protection are species that are included in the EU Species and Habitats Directive, which we have translated into our environmental code. Mr President, I would like to Under the environmental code is the species protection regulation. Here are the species that the EU has identified as particularly important to take into account for all EU countries. The Species Protection Regulation is not new; it has been in existence since 1998. Yet it is possible to read in the media how the Species Protection Regulation has put sticks in the wheels of landowners. The number of cases relating to the right of use has increased by more than 30 per cent since 2016. But what does that mean? During this period, 341 decisions were taken on the basis of the Species Protection Regulation. The Swedish Forest Agency has thus made a decision based on the Species Protection Regulation at about five thousandth logging notification, i.e. in around five per mil of the cases, and then it has usually been about postponing felling to another occasion rather than banning felling. Mr President, I would like to The next burning issue is the key biotopes, and it is hardly even a policy – it is a knowledge base. It's knowledge of where we have the most biologically valuable forests. Today, about 2 percent of the productive forest land in Sweden is classified as key biotopes. The majority of these, 85%, are not protected in the long term. The Swedish Forest Board's report on the current state of key biotopes shows that on average 200 – 250 hectares of registered key biotopes have been harvested annually since 1993. According to the monitoring exercise, over the period 2008 to 2014, an average of 1.3% of the area declared for felling has been made up of areas of key biotope class. Mr President, I would like to Some 2,000 hectares of unregistered key biotopes are harvested per year. In addition, some 3,000 hectares of key biotopes have been adversely affected by fellings. Many key biotopes are also small and are scattered in a strongly fragmented forest landscape. Mr President, I would like to Research shows that key biotopes have a richer plant and animal life than the surroundings. It is therefore of the utmost importance to know where these valuable forests are located in the forest landscape. Key biotopes are surveyed by trained government personnel who have the competence to assess the natural values of forests. Preserving areas that are known to have high natural values is more cost-effective than recreating valuable areas later. It will also be a security for landowners to know where the protected forests are, so that they can plan their forestry. Mr President, I would like to According to the Environmental Code, biotopes must not be harvested, and the Forest Protection Act requires consideration to be given to biotopes that require consideration. The voluntary environmental certification FSC has as its criterion that key biotopes should not be harvested and sold as environmentally classified timber – pure market regulation, quite simply. These requirements have been developed by forestry itself, and it is entirely voluntary to join the certification process. I can understand the frustration when a planned felling is stopped at the last moment when it turns out to be a key biotope. Anyone who has included an income may not take part in it. It has been on the forest owner himself to know whether his or her forest has been a key biotope or not. But how many feel ecologically literate enough to determine whether a forest is a key biotope or not? How many can recognize a knee root, a cat foot slave or a flat feather moss? To be safe, it requires a great knowledge of species and ecological literacy, a competence that exists in nature conservation biologists. When the Swedish Forest Board's biologists are out and survey in advance, knowledge can lead to better planning. Mr President, I would like to Now that a majority in the Riksdag has voted out this knowledge base and an important prerequisite for achieving our environmental goal, we place the burden on the landowners to carry out the inventories themselves. The forests remain, the laws remain, the criteria remain, and consumers do not want to contribute to the destruction of key biotopes. 80 per cent of the Swedish people want to preserve protected forests. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats have more and more in common in their politics. What unites them in forestry policy is their focus on efficiency. Therefore, the national strategy for the protection of formal forest protection, developed by the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, has proposed that it is precisely the properties that have very key biotopes that should be prioritised in order to obtain cost-effective protection. However, this presupposes one thing: knowledge and a key biotop inventory which the three parties rejected in their budget. Mr President, I would like to The motivation from the Moderates is that the knowledge is insecure because it makes it difficult for many forest owners to use their forests without guarantees of compensation. The Moderates and Christian Democrats say they want to stop the inventory until it can be done in a legally secure way. I would like to inform the Moderates that a key biotope has no legal meaning. The now halted key biotop inventory means that a huge responsibility is passed on to both forest owners and timber buyers. In a situation where we need more knowledge of the value of the forest, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats offer us less knowledge without solving any problems. Mr President, I would like to While we are on the subject of legal certainty, I would also like to inform you that the Forestry Board has carried out a study of the situation and concluded that forestry is legally secure. However, as an environmental party, I have many views on the legal aspect. In Sweden we have a very strong and good environmental legislation, the environmental code. This means that everything that has a significant environmental impact, such as infrastructure and exploitation, needs to be investigated. However, forestry is not under the environmental code, although felling is the single largest factor in that we have so many species on the red list together with a change. Forestry has its own law, the Forest Protection Act, from 1993. The portal clause states that the environment and production should be two equal goals. But the rest of the writing is toothless and written from a production point of view, with a lot to avoid, and a lot to do when it comes to nature conservation. However, if you are going to build a road or wind farm in the forest, an environmental impact assessment must be made. There you go through cultural values, social values and environmental values. These different values are listed and compiled in a report, which weighs the disadvantages and benefits before authorities can make decisions. If, on the other hand, you were to harvest exactly the same area, no environmental impact assessment is needed. You can make a hut of several hundred hectares in a place where, according to the environmental code, it would never be possible to establish wind turbines due to high natural values. It is forbidden to pick protected flowers in the forest, but felling and smashing the entire forest is legal. That is why we in the Green Party want the legislation on forestry to be incorporated into the environmental code. Mr President, I would like to Another confusion that exists in the forest debate, and which we have also heard a little bit of here today, is how much forest is protected. There are politicians in this Chamber who believe that we have in principle already achieved environmental objectives; we have even protected 31% of the forest. Amazing! Unfortunately, this is far from true. A recent report by Per Angelstam states that we in Sweden are far from achieving our international commitments and national environmental objectives for the forest. The 31 percent claimed to be protected are not protected and are irrelevant in relation to the UN Aichi cases and the Swedish environmental objectives. The figure 31 percent is raised in the document Strategy for Sweden's National Forest Programme. But when you look at the figures, it turns out that they are not only controversial, because apples are mixed with pears, but also incorrect. The table on page 18 states that 3.9 per cent of all forest land, i.e. 4.7 per cent of the productive forest area, is formally protected productive forest land. The other percentage points of the claimed protected 31 % consist of the following: 4.3 % are voluntary provisions, that is 5.2 % of the productive forest area. Mr President, I would like to It must be pointed out here that these are not long-term protected forest land. In this context, protection is linked to legal protection, which these areas do not have. They can be harvested at any time if the forest owner so wishes. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency define voluntary provisions as conservation with limited duration. In addition, the figure is an estimate and is not based on reliable evidence. Mr President, I would like to 7.3 per cent of the productive forest area is said to be consideration areas. What are consideration areas? Well, it is harvested and used areas that have left certain tree groups and certain surfaces. But this number doesn't add up. It is an incorrect use of the source Forest Board's report SKA 15 – Forest Impact Assessments 2015. It is clarified in the source that these estimates of consideration areas do not relate to the whole area, but to a share of the rejuvenated area in the years 2008 to 2012. So you go back in time and look at how many trees were left on a shelf. Instead, they describe that this level may possibly exist in the case of an orbital period in a scenario where forestry leaves the same consideration to the same extent in the future, provided that the old considerations then remain. From the report, however, we have assumed in the current forestry scenario that consideration will be given to the same extent in all future fellings. After a period of circulation, when all productive forest land outside reserves and voluntary provisions have been subject to rejuvenation felling, 7.8% of that area will consist of consideration areas. It is therefore hoped that, in future, we will be able, at best, to make up 7.8% of that area of land of consideration. Apart from the fact that this figure is wrong, since these considerations have not yet been taken into account in the bare-cuts, it is irrelevant when it comes to counting protected forest land in relation to international targets and national environmental objectives. Biodiversity measures in the area used have their own objective, Aichi objective 7, which states that agriculture, forestry and aquaculture should be sustainable. By 2020, areas used for agriculture, aquaculture and forestry shall be managed in a sustainable manner in order to preserve biodiversity. One should not confuse Aichimål 11's objective of protecting valuable natural areas with the detail of the used forest that ends up under Aichimål 7. These are completely different objectives, and the figures for protection cannot be confused. Trees and tree groups on the huts are not representative protected forests. Mr President, I would like to 16.7 per cent, i.e. the largest part of this 31 per cent, consists of impediment, i.e. tree-bearing land that is so low-productive that it is considered that there cannot be forestry with large timber removals. But this area is not protected forest land. Nor is impediment representative of many different types of productive forest biotopes. Nor are they suitable as habitats for many of the red-listed species. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency notes that impediments lack specific demarcation and conservation purposes and that they have a weak regulation of use. Impediment is not typical and representative of forest land, and it is rarely that they are of particular importance for biodiversity. Professor Per Angelstam has looked deeper at these issues in the report From forest protection to green infrastructure. I urge you all to read it. The real figure of how much formally protected productive forest land we have in Sweden is 5 per cent, and below the mountain border it is 2.8 per cent. So we have a long way to go before we have achieved our environmental objectives and international commitments. Mr President, I would like to The policy of the Moderates and Christian Democrats means halved funds for the protection and management of a valuable nature. This has now led to the Swedish Forest Agency not being able to pay compensation to landowners who have been waiting for several years for compensation for their protection agreements with the Swedish Forest Agency. Mr President, I would like to Biodiversity shall be protected. Ecosystem services shall be protected. The appropriations for the protection of a valuable nature shall be increased. 20 years ago, the Riksdag made a decisive decision: To the next generation we will hand over a society where the major environmental problems are solved. The environmental objectives system must now be developed and new milestones developed. 中 Magic in Swedish old forest. The Doctrine Drill. The sourness of honeybees. It is our task to preserve Swedish nature for our children and grandchildren. ..................................................... The quote is taken from Stefan Lövven's government declaration. I look forward to the work of implementing this policy.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-784	Madam President, I would like There was a lot to take care of here. The last thing Rebecka Le Moine said makes the question I finally decided to ask even more relevant. As the representative refers to the government declaration, my first question is: Is Rebecka Le Moine and the Environment Party behind the January agreement?
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-786	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Ottosson for the question. Yeah, we're behind it. However, the whole lunta is not the policy of the Green Party, but we must try to do it as well as possible for biodiversity.
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-788	Madam President, I would like I mentioned in my speech that there were some things in the January agreement that I welcome. According to the last sentence of paragraph 26, the extended key biotope inventory shall not be resumed. In Rebecka Le Moines's speech, it sounded like the government has a completely different view of the issue from what is stated in the January agreement. There were many figures in the air, but Rebecka Le Moine slaughters the figure in Strategy for Sweden's national forest programme that 31 percent of the forest has been excluded from forestry. Let me remind you that this figure came from the Government Office 2018. It is therefore the government of Rebecka Le Moines that is behind this figure. Is Rebecka Le Moine not behind government policy in this?
i-c0cfeab9a0ffbb4c-792	Madam President, I would like I'm new to my work. I was elected last autumn and was cruised to pursue issues relating to biodiversity and the preservation of our last natural forests. I didn't write this. If I were, I would have used the correct numbers. Of course you can see that it is the exception from forestry, but then we can also include golf courses, lakes and wetlands. However, it is not biologically relevant. We are committed to protecting 17% of representative habitats, and we are not there today. We are up to 5 percent and 2.8 percent below the mountain border in terms of productive forest land. I am working to accelerate this protection as opposed to the bourgeois who believe that we have protected more than enough and want to suspend the protection and have flexible forms of protection. It's neither mine nor the Green Party's policy.
