i-c5573987c968783c-2	Mrs. alman! Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me what efforts I intend to make in our labour market training and in the workplace in order to combat segregation and break the gender apartheid associated with the culture of honour, if I and the government intend to implement any training measures so that women with lower education or no schooling at all in their home country who suffer from unemployment or social isolation can receive CSN grants to learn Swedish or other labour market measures adapted to their situation and if I and the government intend to allocate more resources to the municipalities for training places and allocate resources to cooperative enterprises where women with lower education and less access to the labour market can receive both training and a place on the labour market. The Swedish labour market is strong, and the demand for labour is good. Since the government took office in autumn 2014, more than 3 50,000 people have a job. Two thirds of the employment growth has occurred among foreign born children. New arrivals are also coming to work faster, which is a good thing. However, major challenges arise, not least as regards the establishment of women born abroad in the labour market. The employment and self-sufficiency of many more women born abroad is a high priority. The Government believes that both women and men on the part of society should be met by the same expectations and given the right conditions for being able to support themselves and stand on their own feet through entry into the labour market. The January Agreement therefore stresses the need for a clear gender perspective in all measures of establishment. New arrivals will enter the labour market faster and an intensive year will be introduced. Competence in honor-related violence should be increased, and honor crimes should be stopped. A new regulatory framework for the establishment of newcomers in working and social life entered into force on 1 January 2018. The new regulatory framework strengthens the Swedish Public Employment Service's ability to provide the right responses based on the individual's needs, while clarifying the requirements for the individual. In the context of the new regulatory framework, training obligations for newcomers were also introduced. The education obligation means that a new arrival who has a short education and is therefore not deemed to be able to work during his/her time in the establishment programme should mainly devote himself/herself to education. Any person who does not apply for an assigned training, rejects a training course or does not participate in such training will be able to be warned or suspended from the establishment allowance. Today, there is also the opportunity to study, with continued activity support, the equivalent of a maximum of one year of full-time studies at basic and upper secondary level for the unemployed who are enrolled in the Job and Development Guarantee. There are also opportunities for municipal adult education in Swedish for immigrants or equivalent education in folk high schools or education in the school system at basic or upper secondary level for long-term immigrants. During the last term of office, a start-up grant was also introduced. Start-up support aims to increase recruitment for studies among some unemployed with short education or high training needs, in order to strengthen their ability to enter the labour market. So far, more than 6 800 individuals have received the support. In the field of labour market education, labour market training guidelines are unevenly distributed between women and men, as is the case in municipal adult education. The Employment Service has been tasked with working with gender mainstreaming with the aim of women and men having access to labour market policy support on equal terms. As far as labour market training is concerned, this work needs to be continued and developed. The education system must also be able to meet women and men with extensive training needs and equip them with the skills needed in the labour market. In order to strengthen people's job opportunities and improve matching in the labour market, the government has launched a new knowledge boost with a focus on municipal adult education, public education and college. The possibility of subsidised employment represents an important route to jobs for groups that are far from the labour market. Extra services are a way into the labour market for newcomers and the long-term unemployed, especially for women born abroad. All municipalities are obliged to offer new arrivals and their relatives social orientation with information about the rights, obligations and opportunities of all residents in Sweden. It is an important effort to discuss, in the native language of the newcomers or with the help of interpreters, which norms and values apply in Sweden with a focus on gender equality. The J Anuari Agreement also underlines the importance of social inclusion, social orientation and teaching in Swedish. SFI education will also be improved and language requirements for citizenship will be introduced. The spring change budget also presented an investment of SEK 340 million in this year for labour market policy interventions. The initiative is expected to involve more people, such as women born abroad, in actions that lead to jobs. The aim of the proposal is to better respond to employers' needs for skilled labour by strengthening the work of equipping job seekers and, in particular, enabling actions within local job tracks involving the Employment Service, municipalities and employers. Priority should be given to women born abroad. In the budget, the Swedish Agency for Growth is also awarded SEK 10 million to promote entrepreneurship among women born in Sweden. The spring budget also proposes that SEK 45 million be allocated to strengthen the work against honour-related violence and repression, that SEK 4 million be allocated for actions against discrimination and racism, that the grant to the Equality Agency be increased by SEK 40 million and that the grant to the Delegation against segregation be increased by SEK 11 million.
i-c5573987c968783c-12	Madam President, I would like Katarina Brännström has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to reduce the number of people residing in the country without permission and how the Government's proposal to extend the right to family reunification responds to the need for a responsible migration policy Sweden has. I have chosen to respond to the interpellations in a context. Return issues are a priority for the government. In order to maintain a humane, legally secure and long-term sustainable migration policy, those who, after a legal review for asylum reasons, have received a rejection decision must return as quickly as possible. The return must take place primarily on a voluntary basis, but otherwise under coercion. In recent years, the government has taken a series of measures to increase return, both voluntary and coercive. The authorities have received additional funds and return liaison officers have been deployed in embassies in a number of key countries. The dialogue with beneficiary countries has resulted, inter alia, in a Memorandum of Understanding on readmission with Afghanistan. Furthermore, the number of detention centres has increased and will be 457 in the spring, which is an increase of 80 percent since 2016. Since 1 July 2018, the Police Authority has been given increased opportunities to check that employers do not hire people who do not have the necessary permits. In addition to this, the report is currently being prepared for a clear identity in the Council of Europe. The proposals contained in the report aim, among other things, to improve the effectiveness of the Police Authority's work on return. In recent years, there has been a high rate of return. In the years 2014 to 2018, more than 70 000 former asylum seekers left Sweden either to their home country or to another EU country in accordance with the Dublin Regulation. There are more than 1,000 people per month. The bilateral dialogue with third countries is crucial for the smooth functioning of forced return. We shall also continue to support the return work at European level. For example, a revision of the Return Directive is currently under way aimed at streamlining and shortening Member States' return procedures. The Government Declaration makes it very clear that those who have protection reasons should quickly become part of society and that those who do not have such reasons should return quickly. According to the January Agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party at the beginning of the year, the Act on temporary restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden, the so-called temporary law, is to be extended for two years. In this context, alternative protection needs shall also be granted the same right to family reunification as refugees. It is reasonable that these two groups have the same opportunity for family reunification. Such an opportunity can also contribute to faster establishment. The Government will also set up a parliamentary committee to develop proposals for future migration policy. On the basis of the agreement, the Finnish Immigration Service has carried out a preliminary impact assessment of what the proposals would entail. The Authority's assessment is that the number of asylum seekers will increase by only 500 people in 2019 and by 1,000 people per year in 2020 and 2021. This should be seen in the light of the fact that we now have the lowest number of asylum seekers in 13 years. The proposal to extend family reunification is therefore well in line with the responsible management of migration policy in Sweden.
i-c5573987c968783c-22	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for the answer to my two interpellations. However, it is a little worrying that the Minister's response to me seems to be so pleased with the current system. I think it's a little turning a blind eye to reality. There is not a single description of the problem in the reply from the Minister. The fact is that today there are a large number of people who do not return voluntarily to their country after being denied a residence permit in Sweden. In four years, the Migration Board estimates that about 50,000 cases will be handed over to the police, and in most of these cases the people have deviated and gone underground. Morgan Johansson must also consider that to be untenable. It is also serious that no one, whether government or authority, actually knows how many are illegally in Sweden. Our border controls have major shortcomings. This makes it easy to get into Sweden, and those who have received a final rejection stay. But no one knows where they are or how many they are, and we risk having a shadow society. Before the elections, Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats very clearly promised a tighter migration policy if they were to come to power. They even called a special press conference to tell us just that. The promises promised a great deal, even banning support for asylum seekers who have been rejected. These promises have certainly not become reality since the new government took office. But why have you changed your mind, Morgan Johansson? Is not a tight migration policy right anymore? The Minister himself knows how big the problems are in the exclusion areas. It is poor integration, high unemployment, an increased number of violent crimes, gang crime and other things that make life insecure for those living there. The immigration of relatives is now to be relaxed, and this of course sends signals that make more and more people come to Sweden. In fact, Eurostat has shown that Sweden was the country in the EU that granted asylum to the second most people last year. That was almost 20,000 people. If it continues, it will be 100,000 over five years. Then Sweden remains high in an EU perspective. The signals in the January agreement on a more generous migration policy mean that more and more people will want to bring their relatives here. The Finnish Immigration Service has estimated that there will be 1,000 more per year. We don't know if there'll be many more. But this will put severe pressure on the municipalities, as there is no requirement for self-sufficiency. In most cases, it is a matter of support from the municipalities. It is also about more children in already troubled schools and about more in the already long sex to the care, to name a few. I think it is good that the government and the Minister say that the return is a priority. The reality, however, does not look as bright. We can see that many thousands are illegally in Sweden, and the police have difficulty in executing expulsion decisions. I do not think that the Minister is giving a really good answer on how to do this. The number of detention centres has increased slightly, but the police say they are not enough. How many people are out there who should be rejected or in custody probably don't even know Morgan Johansson. That could be as many as 30,000 to 35,000. We know that there are cities like Malmö that grant social assistance, financial assistance, to those who have been rejected. This gives absolutely no incentive for more people to leave our country. This is done despite the fact that the Supreme Administrative Court has said that these people are not entitled to this support under the Social Services Act. I therefore expect more answers from Morgan Johansson on how to have a sustainable migration policy.
i-c5573987c968783c-32	Madam President, I would like I say that Sweden has a tight migration policy. This is evidence, not least, of the developments that we are now experiencing in terms of the number of asylum seekers. Madam President, I would like As I say in my reply, we now have the lowest number of asylum seekers in 13 years. In the case of unaccompanied children and young people who come to Sweden, we have the lowest number in twelve years. We are in a completely different situation than we were a few years ago. I can remind Katarina Brännström that when I took office in 2014, Sweden had the most generous refugee policy in the EU, and we still have the world's most generous labour immigration system. That was then after eight years of moderate rule. You then went to elections to pursue this policy. It was Reinfeldt's mantra in the 2014 election campaign: Open your hearts! It was said that we would continue to have the most generous refugee policy throughout the European Union. But at the same time, the Moderates said that only Social Democratic municipalities should receive these people. Moderate municipalities shouldn't have to do that. You were opposed in stone to opening up to legislation that meant that all municipalities would have to accept people who came here. Everyone understands that this was not sustainable in the long term. That is why it became our government's task to try to deal with the situation when it turned out in 2015 that this was not sustainable. We did. We twisted with border controls from autumn 2015 and with ID checks from January 2016 with the temporary law. The Moderates were nothing to hold in hand in this context. They couldn't even vote for the ID checks when that question was raised in the Riksdag in autumn 2015. We did this not because we wanted it but because we had to. We simply could not have a situation of 10 000 a week that came to Sweden. If it had continued, our asylum system would have completely collapsed. In addition, we had to simply get a breathing room, an opportunity to take care of those who came to Sweden. Then all the accident ravens shouted that with so many coming to Sweden in 2015 and 2016 the unemployment rate would rise and we would get mass unemployment. Now we can judge this after a few years. What happened? Unemployment has fallen, the employment rate has increased and the start-up period – the time taken for a newcomer in Sweden to enter the labour market – has almost halved. During the time of the Moderates, it was eight years old. During our time, it has been in four or perhaps five years. So our labour market policy has enabled us to actually make room for these people to get into the labour market in a good way. To take just one such figure: After five years in Sweden, foreign-born women have a higher employment rate than domestic women in the EU. The two-supplier standard in Sweden thus passes when people come here – it is the norm that people adapt to. Moreover, it is in fact in the group of foreign-born women that the labour force participation rate has increased most during these four five years. We have therefore regained control on this issue, but we must also continue to have a high rate of return for those who have been rejected. Over the last five years, 70 000 have left Sweden, which means that approximately 1 000 former asylum seekers leave Sweden every month. We will continue to make efforts there, with, among other things, expanded detention centres and increased possibilities for checks for various reasons – and with increased resources to the police, among other things, so that this work can continue to develop well.
i-c5573987c968783c-41	Madam President, I would like It's interesting that Morgan Johansson only talks about the positive figures – they're good, and I'm happy about that – but completely avoid the problems that are actually out there. The police see them, the Migration Agency sees them and social authorities around our country see them. We see the results of several years of migration. I agree that Sweden lost its grip for a while, and we have regained it. Autumn 2015 was really a difficult time; there was chaos everywhere. But I can say this: I sit on the Regional Council of the police in the south, and I have been with the police in the field. I can see that you cannot even take those found illegally in Sweden, because there is no place to put them. It is a major problem that I think is avoided in this debate. The Migration Agency is even forced to release prisoners who are in custody, for the benefit of those with whom the police come and who are prioritised. This shows, of course, that the return process does not work at all as well as has been said. Unemployment remains high among foreign-born and newcomers. We have had a very long boom, so of course we have low unemployment among all. Here, however, it remains high. I think you don't care about that problem. It ignores social problems and what happens in vulnerable areas. What happens then, once people come out into the municipalities, are going to school and all that? I do not think we are talking about this in this debate, at least. Overcrowding is on the increase, and serious crime is on the increase. Outsiders are inherited to children. We see youths taking the law into their own hands, and we read about shootings almost every day. This is not something that was thought a few years ago to be in this House to discuss, but it is the facts. It also shows how important it is to have controlled migration in order for us to have successful integration in Sweden. We also know that it is these very people who will be affected only in the approaching recession. I therefore think that the light tone of Morgan Johansson's reply is not in keeping with the reality that police and others have to deal with. Actually, the refugee crisis isn't over yet. It is enough to visit a municipality in my county of Kronoberg in Småland. We cannot turn a blind eye to the enormous task of integrating hundreds of thousands of people who have come in recent years. The return also works far too badly. I understand that it is a difficult issue to solve and that detention places cannot be found as easily as possible. But neither do we have tools to find people, and we have a sub-dimension of the whole process. I think that's serious. I believe that a tight migration policy is not only about who comes into Sweden but also about who is actually in Sweden. We don't have control, and sometimes police and others just have to turn a blind eye to the people you meet. I was in a workplace – a garage – where there was a whole bunch of people working black, but you had nowhere to make of the people you could have taken. The policemen were completely turned down, and I think that's serious. In this way you do not get successful integration, but you get a shadow society that I do not think Morgan Johansson or I want in Sweden. So my question remains. What is being done, therefore, really serious, to improve the situation and to avoid this shadow society, the gross gang crime and other things that follow in the tracks?
i-c5573987c968783c-49	Madam President, I would like We have strengthened these activities at every stage, I would say. I can list as many measures as we have taken in this regard. It is nice to hear that Katarina Brännström has been out at work and perhaps participated in one of the workplace inspections that the police have now carried out. They are, of course, a consequence of the legislation we got in place from 1 July last year, when we opened up the possibility for the police to go in and check a workplace in certain risk sectors without having any real suspicion of that particular workplace. We are talking about, for example, the restaurant industry and the construction industry. Beauty care has also been discussed, including nail firms where we have seen a lot of concerns. So the police can go in and check who actually works at a workplace and carry out those checks. In addition, we doubled the fine for the employer who hires a person who does not have a residence permit in Sweden and let him work for maybe 30 SEK an hour and live in a basement – the one who takes advantage of the situation, so to speak. So we have doubled the sanctioning fee for these employers, which also applies from 1 July last year. If you now have ten employees for a longer period of time, you can be fined up to SEK 1 million for it. It is a concrete measure that we have implemented. Then Katarina Brännström says that we have increased the number of detention places slightly. Yes, we have thus increased the number of detention centres by 80%. How much increased the number of detention places during the eight years of the moderate-led government — hardly anything at all, is it not? Now on Monday, additional detention places in Ljungbyhed will open at home in Skåne. There's 40 more seats. Next year a new detention facility will open in Norrbotten. Preliminaryly you do a procurement for Luleå, but you haven't really decided where it should be. At least it is in Norrbotten that there will be about fifty more places. This means that in these years we come up in numbers where we have more than doubled the number of detention places. I am well aware that we may need to do more in that part, but again: How many detention centres did the Moderates open? Barely any at all. You devoted yourself to lowering the tax instead of ensuring that you can strengthen these activities in each line, Katarina Brännström. When I took office in 2014, we did not even have the opportunity for medical age assessments, i.e. the opportunity to check whether the young people and children who came to Sweden were really children and young people. It had broken down in 2013, and the then government had done nothing about it. We now have a system for that too. When I took office in 2014, we also did not have a readmission agreement with Afghanistan. We do now, and it works in a good way. We did not have effective cooperation with Morocco. We do now, and it works in a good way. The young people who have come from North Africa and who we meet in the big cities of Sweden, for example, can now be rejected to Morocco, if that is where they come from. All of these are examples of measures that we have taken. We must, of course, continue in this direction, and I believe that this is about continuing with, among other things, the reinforcement of resources for police operations. Katarina Brännström knows that we are now making the biggest investments ever on the police force, I would say. We are expanding the number of police employees – up to 10,000 more employees by 2024 – and from this year on, we are also beginning to notice that we have doubled the number trained as police officers. In the coming years, more and more new police officers will be able to start working. It will also be very important in this respect, Madam President.
i-c5573987c968783c-57	Madam President, I would like Workplace inspections are great, and it's great to be out there and see who's there. But what happens next? According to reports from the Finnish Immigration Service, it is intended to hand over over 50 000 people who are illegally in Sweden to the police. What about 450 arrests? There's a drop in the ocean. So the police have nowhere to make of the people they actually find out there. It is also ridiculous to say that we did nothing. The major problems came in 2014 – 2015. Until then, we did not have these major problems in Sweden. They've been around for the past five years, and as far as I know, it's an S-led government that's been in charge then. Morgan Johansson tells us what we did a long time ago, when the problems were hardly obvious to us in this House in the way it is now. There was a major crisis in 2015, and we live with the consequences of it throughout Sweden. There are 50,000 cases you fear you will have to hand over. Most have deviated and gone underground. So what are 450 detention centres? The police say it's about thousands. Now the Migration Board did not agree, so the authorities will have to sort this out. It does not help to carry out workplace inspections if the result is not then taken care of. That's where I think it's flawed. We must realise that we have problems here and now and that we need to act in the future to do so. However, I am pleased with this debate, and I hope that we can have it again. These are really important issues, which affect both those responsible in our municipalities around the country and other people. I hope that we will ensure that we continue to have a tight migration policy and that it will not be more transparent in Sweden with what is stated in the January agreement.
i-c5573987c968783c-63	Madam President, I would like So we have the lowest reception of asylum in 13 years. We have the smallest number of unaccompanied young people in 12 years. This is a consequence of our withdrawal of control in 2015 and 2016. We didn't exactly have the Moderates with us when it came to the ID controls-- you couldn't even stand to be there for them. We have built up the detention centres, not just something, but by 80%. Now on Monday will open additional places in Ljungbyhed, and next year will open additional places in Luleå. There has never been talk of thousands, but we need to increase the number. That is the case; we have that signal from both the police and the Migration Agency. We're also working on a plan for exactly this. There is a picture that the return is not working. But it works well with Afghanistan, with Morocco and with the number of countries with which it has not worked in the past, as a result of the fact that we have had discussions with each individual country. As I said, over the last five years, more than 70 000 former asylum seekers have left Sweden, either after they have been refused – i.e. after their case has been tried and they have been allowed to go home – or because they are so-called Dublin cases, i.e. they have been registered in another EU country and have gone there to have their case examined. The number is 70 000 in five years – that's about 1 000 a month. Of course you can always do things even better, but no one can say anything but that we have worked very actively on this. Then, of course, it is also about those who stay in Sweden getting well into the labour market. I note that employment has increased, unemployment has decreased and employment has increased most among women born abroad. Nevertheless, I think that this is a positive thing that needs to be taken into account in this debate.
i-c5573987c968783c-69	Madam President, I would like Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen has asked me how I and the government intend to act to ensure that the implementation of the copyright directive in Sweden will harm freedom of expression and the free sharing of information as little as possible. Copyright law in the EU has now been updated. The new rules include increased opportunities to use copyright-protected materials in research, teaching and preservation of cultural heritage. This also means that cultural creators are now given better opportunities to receive fair remuneration for their work. From the Swedish side, we have also managed to ensure the possibility of continuing to use our Nordic contract licenses, which are very important for the Swedish copyright contract market. At the same time, we have not heard all our views. The directive also contains a number of provisions which have been the subject of a wide-ranging debate. This concerns, on the one hand, the responsibility of platforms with user-uploaded content and, on the other hand, the issue of a new right for newspaper publishers. It follows that certain large profit-making platforms should be obliged, first and foremost, to obtain licences for the material uploaded by users. Where such licences do not exist, platforms shall do what they can to prevent protected works from ending up on the platform. This obligation does not apply to all works but only to such specific works as rightholders have notified to the platforms. The Directive is also clear that platforms must not resort to measures that hinder access to lawful material, such as those that constitute permitted quotes or parodys. Furthermore, as Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen rightly points out, the directive contains an obligation for platforms to provide an effective and rapid complaint and remedy mechanism. As far as the new exclusive rights of newspaper publishers are concerned, the government has worked during the negotiations to limit them, as has happened. The new exclusivity does not cover the private or non-commercial use of individual users. In addition, it has been clarified that the right does not include hyperlinking measures and that it will still be permitted to use single words or very short extracts also from newspaper articles. Nor does the directive require Member States to set a fee for the use of the material. However, it gives newspaper publishers an opportunity – but not an obligation – to negotiate conditions for the use of the material by others. The compensation is therefore a matter for the parties involved to agree on. The directive is now adopted and Sweden is therefore obliged to implement it. In implementing the provisions should, of course, take account of what has been said and also of the legitimate interests of the general public and individuals, although it is not possible at this stage to take a stand on individual details. The implementation of the directive in Swedish law will now begin, and the government will of course return to Parliament on this issue.
i-c5573987c968783c-78	Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing a potential threat to citizens' freedom of expression online. This is an important subject, which, unfortunately, has so far been dealt with with with anything but respect on the part of Morgan Johansson. The Government and his party The Social Democrats bear a large part of the responsibility for the implementation of the Copyright Directive – including the controversial Articles 11 and 13, which have been much discussed – now. As the two articles now appear, with the risk of, among other things, upload filters, they are a concrete threat to an open and free internet. That is why the Center Party pushed for the government to reject the directive in the Council of Ministers. That's what happened, too, but it wasn't enough. The directive was voted through despite a Swedish no. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats have been in favour of the directive throughout the whole process. At first, the government, headed by Mr S, did not tell the EU Board that it intended to support the directive, including these articles. Then the Social Democrats in the European Parliament said that they would vote against the directive as long as Articles 11 and 13 were present, but then they changed their mind and cast the decisive votes that led the directive to go through without amending Articles 11 and 13. It has simply not been possible to know where the Social Democrats are on this issue. Turning now to the implementation of the directive in Swedish law, it is absolutely crucial that we get clear answers. Unfortunately, the government has at the same time claimed that I and others who disagree with him have been convinced by lobbyists paid by Facebook. I've never talked to Facebook – or any of the other platforms – about this. On the other hand, I would very much like the Government to have had an open debate on the negative effects of the proposals he has been proposing for the last few months. Unfortunately, this has not been possible. Now we stand here after the Council of State twice moved this interpellation debate to after the deadline – strangely enough so that the debate came to lag behind the EU decision on the directive. It is almost as if the Government did not want to answer questions before the decision has already been taken. Madam President, I would like While we have been here discussing a few minutes, around 1 000 minutes of video has been posted on Youtube, and over 200 000 posts have been posted on Instagram. Facebook's 200 million active European users have in the morning shared articles, pictures, films and stories from their lives around our continent. The Government sees it as realistic that an algorithm could correctly assess whether every one of these posts violates copyright and that any errors would go quickly for a number of people in the platforms to fix. I don't think it's that simple. The question that the Government has not yet really answered is: Can he guarantee that only content that violates copyright will be stopped by the filters that are now – for which the Government is responsible – being introduced in Sweden? Or is there a risk that the free and legal opinions of Swedish citizens will be hindered?
i-c5573987c968783c-86	Madam President, I would like Firstly, it is completely wrong that I have somehow kept out of any kind of debate on this issue. On the contrary, it is enough to google what I have said on this issue in recent weeks to see that I have been prepared to take the debate when it comes. The government has informed the Industry Committee nine times. None of the political parties opposed the line of the government, nor the Center Party, but this is something that has come only in the last month in an expression of election fever, I would say. In the run-up to the EU elections, a number of parties have suddenly chosen to turn, because before that, for two years, the government's line in the negotiations has been joined. On the substance, and this is what I think we should talk about here, the copyright directive is about cultural workers – photographers, writers and journalists – being able to get paid for their work and no one being able to go free-riding on their work. The same rules that apply in ordinary life, so to speak, must also apply on the Internet. I do not have the right to print a book and then stand in the square and sell it, that is, someone else's book, without having an agreement with the person who wrote the book. I don't have the right to make money on other people's work in real life. Similarly, I shall not have the right to make money on the work of others on the Internet. But that's exactly what's happening right now. Youtube, Facebook and Google made nearly $200 billion last year, and they didn't do that by producing their own material, for they almost didn't, but by spreading other people's material. That is the fundamental problem here. If I have a bike, it's my bike, and it's up to me to decide who's going to use it. My neighbor does not have the right to go in with me, take my bike and rent it out to someone else without my permission. And if he does, I'd like to be paid for the revenue he gets. In exactly the same way, it's here. If I have written a song, no one else has the right to take the song and earn money from it without my permission. And if there's anyone else making money from the song, I'd like a share of the revenue. So what this issue is about is that musicians, composers, cultural workers, writers, journalists – everyone in the creative industries – should have the opportunity to sign agreements with Youtube, Facebook, Google and others when they use their material, so that they get a share of the $200 billion that companies earned last year. It is about the conflict between the cultural workers on one side and the American net giants on the other side. In that conflict, I am on the side of the cultural workers, and there I am not alone. We had a petition of 23 organisations in Sweden – there are authors, journalists, photographers and cultural workers in general – who organize 150 000 copyright holders in Sweden who all backed up the Copyright Directive. One of the most important things that has happened in this industry in many years is that we supported this. It was me and the government prepared to do. The Swedish Parliament's EU Board then made another decision, but now the copyright directive is in place because it was passed in the Council of Ministers. Then we will also have to implement it. I think that the basic principle is absolutely correct, namely that ownership must also apply to cultural workers and that they must be able to get paid for their basic work.
i-c5573987c968783c-96	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the answer, Morgan Johansson! But I note that the question I asked you, whether you can guarantee that content that violates copyright will be stopped by these filters, was not answered. It has been asked a few times, but it has not been answered once. After all, the Council of Ministers is now getting a few more chances in this debate, so I hope that it will be possible for me to get an answer. There is a problem here that is very much based on the example that the Government highlighted here. The government mentioned the example of selling a book that someone else has written as if it were one's own, which is illegal and should be so. Rather, it should be the writer of the book who will earn the money. On this, I and the Center Party absolutely agree. That is why we are in favour of a directive on copyright. Article 13 has nothing to do with this at all. It determines whether you can walk out your door with a book in your hand before it is decided who wrote it. What is the big question is who should decide whether something is legal or illegal and at what stage it should be done. What Article 13 says is that before you are allowed to go out with a book through the door, there must be someone standing in the door who has checked, in this case the platforms, if the book is someone else's work, and then you must not take it out the door. That is what we are opposed to. If it is discovered that you have not written the book, you should of course pay. Instead, here we have censorship on the way out the door. That is what Article 13 means and which we are opposed to. This is a huge difference. If you have not understood that difference, we obviously have a problem, especially if it is the person responsible for implementing the legislation. I can give you some examples of how this kind of thing works in practice. Nasa, a fairly large U.S. authority, known worldwide for its high technological level, kind of landed a car on Mars. You could say that's pretty good work technically. They uploaded a video of this on Youtube. Then this was taken down, because it was considered by these filters to violate copyright because it was a local media company that had used the same video in its news broadcasts. They have copyright on their news broadcasts, so NASA's original video was downloaded by Google ID. If NASA does not manage to get a video out on Youtube without any problems, you can wonder how an ordinary citizen will succeed in doing so. A critical video in which Obama sings a song has been removed because the song was copyright protected. It is absolutely fair use, because it was a criticism of a politician. But it was hard to do anything about it. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, MIT, is perhaps the most famous university in the world on the technical side. Their open lectures have been filtered out by Youtube because of alleged c opyright infringement. People who work at White Noise have posted electronic sound just as a background. It has been removed because out of five different people it was claimed to have gone into their copyright. A person has filmed in nature with birdsong in the background. The film has been removed because it violated copyright. So we have filters that believe that ordinary bird singing violates copyright. That's how it works in practice, that things are prevented on the way in with the new filters, if that's what Morgan Johansson wants. That is why I ask again: can the Government guarantee that free and legal opinions from Swedish citizens will not be stopped from being posted online through this legislation?
i-c5573987c968783c-107	Madam President, I would like It is symptomatic that the Center agrees with the principle itself, that is, that cultural workers should be able to get paid for their job, but then you are not prepared to do anything concrete to really uphold the principle. If the copyright directive and the articles we are talking about were to fall, the situation would continue to be as it is, that is, the American online giants can continue to earn billions of dollars from other people's work. I think I'll still have to ask the Center some kind of deological question. In other contexts, you are so horribly interested in protecting property rights. For landowners, forest owners, landowners, greaves and barons, ownership of the Center Party is very important. However, when it comes to cultural workers, other people can simply take their jobs and earn money from it without the Center intending to do anything concrete to protect them in that respect. I think this is a major political concern for the Centre Party in this debate. Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen says, speaking of my example of selling books in the square, that the new legislation strikes when you go out the door. But that's not the case. Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen's objection is significantly limping. If I put something on the internet, I make available a material for other people's consumption. But I won't if I walk out the door with a book, will I? The problem is also that competition situations arise. Netflix and Spotify pay copyright holders for the images they post and the music they stream, but Youtube does not do so at all to the same extent. What the copyright directive is about is to ensure, for example, that a songwriter is given the opportunity to sign a contract with, for example, Youtube, which means that if you play the songwriter's song, he or she must get a share of the revenue. For this to be maintained, there must be some kind of recognition mechanism, and we will come back to that when we implement the directive, that is, what this should look like. This, of course, must be synchronised with all EU countries. Of course, you will always find examples where you can question whether it was right or wrong to block different things and whether it is within the framework of copyright. At the end of the day, the Court of Justice may decide on the conduct to be followed. I am absolutely convinced that the principle must exist and that there must be a concrete possibility of actually upholding it. As I said, we will start a legislative process for this in the future. Let me put a specific question to the Center. You have opposed this directive. Is the Center going to try and stop the implementation of it? I think it may be an important message to the country's 150 000 copyright holders if they have the Center Party with or against them on this issue.
i-c5573987c968783c-115	Madam President, I would like I realise that this is the naive belief of a poor newly elected Member of Parliament in politics, but I will still ask the Council a third question to which I have not yet received an answer. Is there a risk in the implementation of the new directive that the free and legal opinions of Swedish citizens will be hindered by these filters? This question has not yet been answered, and I think it is reasonable for him to respond to it in the open debate that the Government claims to be willing to have. I think it is difficult for me to answer these questions openly and honestly in a way that the Government also understands. For five years we have been working to get a copyright directive in the EU. Fredrik Federley is one of those who have fought the hardest for this. The Social Democrats were involved in many of these discussions, and they were on the same line as the Center Party up to two days before the vote in Parliament because they were the decisive force that prevented the changes needed to make a good directive. We have always been in favour of a copyright directive. What we are not in favour of is a copyright directive that could threaten freedom of expression. The fact that the Social Democrats are here talking about ownership in the forest after trying to stop it for several years in Sweden is fantastic. Yes, the Center Party believes ownership is a fundamental human right. We also think that freedom of expression is the case. That is the question here. If, with Morgan Johansson at the head, we create legislation that stops the freedom of expression of Swedish citizens, we think that the individual article in an entire directive that does this should have been stopped. The Social Democrats are the reason why it could not be stopped because you had the decisive votes in Parliament. That's what Morgan Johansson carries with him.
i-c5573987c968783c-120	Madam President, I would like Strong copyright protection is important for cultural workers, photographers, journalists, songwriters and everyone else in the creative industries. This is also important for Sweden. Sweden is one of the countries with very strong creative industries. Just take the music industry, which is big and important for Sverig e. As a nation, we therefore have every reason to promote strict copyright rules. Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen asks whether this will undermine fundamental freedom of expression. The answer to this question is, of course, that freedom of expression with the new legislation will not be more limited than it already is as a result of current copyright rules. Today's copyright rules mean that you don't have the right to use other people's music or pictures and make money from them. The fact that the same rules must apply online as in real life is the starting point for further implementation. At the same time, there must be a technical opportunity to uphold this principle, and it is these details that we are now going to get started and draw up legislation for. I asked the rhetorical question about property rights because I know that the Center Party is a strong supporter of it. Let me just point out that property rights also include intangible assets, not just forests and land. You also have ownership of the work you create, the text you write or the film you make. This ownership must also be strong. It seems that those who stand up for this ownership in Parliament are the Social Democrats. We'll see where the Center eventually lands.
i-c5573987c968783c-125	Madam President, I would like Mr Jomshof has asked me whether I would like to introduce a ban on wearing a comprehensive Muslim veil, i.e. burka and niqab, and other face-covering garments in public place in Sweden. The Constitution protects the foundations of our democracy. The National Board is based, among other things, on freedom of opinion and is exercised in compliance with the principles of the rule of law. Freedom of expression, freedom of religion and the prohibition of discrimination are inalienable elements of our legal system. Everyone residing in the country shall have the right to make his or her voice heard and have the right to demonstrate and exercise his or her faith, identity and culture. At a time when the fundamental values of democracy are being challenged and intolerance spread, it is essential that we defend the principles of the rule of law and stand up for the equal value of all people. Freedom of religion is protected in the Constitution as an absolute right. It cannot be limited by ordinary law. As noted in the legislative case of a ban on the masking of sporting events, an exceptional ban on wearing face-to-face garments is likely to conflict with this freedom. I do not intend to take the initiative for such a ban as Mr Jomshof is asking for.
i-c5573987c968783c-130	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. From 1 August 2018, it is prohibited to carry a comprehensive Muslim veil, i.e. burka and niqab, in public place in Denmark. If you violate the ban and this does not serve a particular purpose, you risk a fine of SEK 1,400. However, in the event of repeated offences, the amount of the fine may be substantially increased. The ban, which also applies to other face-covering garments such as muggings, has been debated for a decade in Denmark and was voted through by a large majority in the Danish Parliament on 31 May almost a year ago. The Danish Social Democrats also supported the ban. Similar bans already exist in several European countries such as Belgium, Bulgaria, the Netherlands, France, Latvia and Austria. In other countries there are similar regional bans. Madam President, I would like The purpose of the Muslim veil, not least the comprehensive variant that we are debating here today, is to control and oppress, to cover up girls and women, including in order not to arouse the lusts of men. If Muslim men now see themselves as primitive beings who are not capable of controlling their lusts, it is only to be regretted. However, it is a strange attitude and, in fact, a very dangerous attitude. Sexualising the bodies of girls and women in this way and using it as a pretext for oppressing perhaps half of the population is disgusting and unacceptable. To impose a comprehensive veil on girls and women is nothing more than a clear expression of a very strange view of human beings and a very strange view of women. It is something that also strengthens alienation and very unhealthy gender roles. This is something that we cannot support, and I can only regret that the government does not share this view. Madam President, I would like The Minister says that the fundamental values of democracy are being challenged and that intolerance is spreading, but also that we must defend the principles of the rule of law. I agree and share that view. But what the Minister does not seem to understand is that the greatest threat today to democratic, equal and open society comes from Islamism. Furthermore, the Minister does not seem to understand that it is actually the Minister himself and his own government that are part of the problem – this because mass immigration and multiculturalism have created this divided society, but also by, unfortunately, giving the Islamists space and allowing them to be kept. In fact, the Social Democratic Government is partly responsible for the dismantling that is currently under way by democratic, equal and open society. Madam President, I would like The Minister says that the prohibition of discrimination is an inalienable feature of our legal system, but also that anyone residing in the country should have the right to make his voice heard. How can one claim to work against discrimination while allowing and encouraging this repression of Muslim women in this case? That doesn't make any sense. Does the Minister seriously believe that these oppressed women have the right and the opportunity to make their voices heard when they are treated in this way?
i-c5573987c968783c-143	Madam President, I would like Just as I said in my interpellation response, freedom of religion in Sweden has a very strong protection. It is the only of the so-called opinion rights that can not be restricted by ordinary law. It can only be limited by a constitutional amendment. That's what you call an absolute right. This is shown in Chapter 2 of the government form. Section 1 6. Such a ban, proposed by Mr Jomshof, would most likely be contrary to this very wording in the form of government. For reasons of constitutional law, therefore, there is a strong opposition to such legislation. We must also have a discussion about what the basic starting points are in an open society. What are people allowed to do and not do? Nevertheless, the basic starting point must be that people are free to do in principle what they want as long as they do not harm anyone else. It also means that you basically have the right to dress as you wish. We don't have any government rules on how individuals should dress. It does not mean that you have to like the clothes, that you have to embrace this with a complete veil. On the contrary, in the political debate one can very well have firm views on what that kind of dress signals and stands for, that it can be an expression of honour and sexual oppression and that there is a very conservative starting point and view of religion behind it. At least that is my view on this. At the same time, I know that there are tens of thousands of Muslims in Sweden. The Muslims in Sweden consist of many different groups and orientations, just as the Christians consist of many different orientations and attitudes. There are conservative Christians, and there are conservative Muslims. There are progressive Christians, and there are progressive Muslims. There are secular Christians, and there are secular Muslims. There are those who have Christian traditions but who are not the worst believers, or who are atheists or agnostics. Similarly, there are Muslims who have Muslim traditions, who celebrate their holidays, but who may not be very believers and are also fundamentally secular. It's that group of Muslims, the progressive Muslims, that I meet the most. We also know that only a small proportion of Muslims are in the Muslim communities. So the group of Muslims is as differentiated as the group of Christians. There is a relatively small group of Muslims who have very conservative values, and that is where this outfit is used. For example, forcing one's wife not to go out without the complete dress is an expression of sexual oppression. I think that should be countered. But then we must ensure that these women are given the opportunity to be freed from the oppression of the sexes. This is where we split up. What the Swedish Democrats want to do with those women is in practice to send them out of Sweden. They're going back to Sudan, Iran or Iraq. There, oppression could continue. That's where we split up. In so far as the women are to remain in Sweden, according to the Swedish Democrats, they must sit at home with custody allowance. Then you will pay them to sit at home and take care of their children, Richard Jomshof. In that sense, Swedish democrats and conservative Muslims can actually take each other in hand sometimes when it comes to that starting point. I want to see to it that this is countered and that women are freed. Unfortunately, the Swedish Democrats do not want that.
i-c5573987c968783c-151	Madam President, I would like In fact, women who are forced on these garments are denied the right to live their lives in the same way and under the same conditions as men and the rest of the female population. It is so far from the idea of the equal value of men and women at all. Surely a fundamental starting point must be to counteract the oppression of women, not to affirm it or allow it. It is therefore tragic when the Minister claims to stand up for the equal value of all people. It is precisely the opposite. It is often called voluntary, that is to say, the carrying of a complete veil in this case would be voluntary. Unfortunately, the Minister seems to share that view. I would like to take this opportunity to say the following: There is a wide range of examples of what happens to women and even girls who try to free themselves from this oppression by, for example, not wearing the garment. They are persecuted, they are mocked, they are oppressed and they are beaten. It even happens that they're murdered. The view of these women is that they are dirty and unclean. It is a disgusting view of women that has taken hold in large parts of the Muslim world but also here in Sweden. It is not only Muslim terrorist groups and several Muslim rogue states that force girls and women to wear a veil or a complete veil and punish those who try to free themselves and take it off. Unfortunately, it also occurs here in Sweden. Madam President, I would like When the Social Democrats call their own government feminist, it is a duty. I would like to remind you that the female representatives of the Swedish government and business delegation, headed by Minister of Trade Ann Linde, chose to wear a veil and bow to the will of the Islamic Patriarchate regarding women's dress during their visit to Iran a few years ago. Whether you choose to crawl to Islamists or bow to their will in Iran or here in Sweden, it sends very strange signals, not least to those girls and women who are forced to live under some kind of Islamic oppression. I'm not saying everyone does. But it does happen. And unfortunately, it is more common than we seem to think. When I asked the Trade Minister a question earlier, I did not receive an answer. I was therefore going to ask the same question to the Minister for Justice and Migration: does the Minister mean that the creeping for the Islamists – one could call it bowing to the Islamic forces – whether it is in Iran or here in Sweden is in line with the government's so-called feminist orientation? That would be interesting to hear.
i-c5573987c968783c-159	Madam President, I would like No one is crawling to any Islamists or anyone else in this regard either. What I am talking about is the proposal made by Mr Jomshof. I note that this would very likely conflict with the freedom of religion in the form of government and that it cannot be used for that reason. I have also said that one has to decide on the basis on which to prohibit things. People should generally be free to do what they want, as long as they don't hurt anyone else. It's still the basic attitude. If you are to use criminalisation, which is the most interventional exercise of power in a state, you must have strong reasons for it. I think that the Swedish Democrats are making two crucial mistakes in this debate. One is to try to give a false picture of Muslims in general. What we are talking about here is a small group of highly conservative Muslims. They are not representative of Muslims in general. On the contrary, it is a small group. Mr Jomshof has also been out in the debate once and said that Islam is worse than Nazism. I remember that. So he has already wanted to market that kind of generalization. Conservative Muslims are not representative of Muslims in general, just as conservative Christians are not representative of Christians in general. Right-wing Swedes are also not representative of Swedes in general. Generalization is one fault. The second is exactly what I was talking about in my first speech, namely that the Swedish Democrats do not really want to free these women. The women we are talking about here must, in my view, have the opportunity for education and to be able to enter the labour market – to be strengthened, so to speak – so that they can emerge from the sexual oppression they are suffering. But the Swedish Democrats do not want this. They want to send them home to Sudan, Iran or Iraq. In what way do we help the women who are subjected to this oppression by sending them out of Sweden? And how do we help them by, for example, introducing a custody allowance? Should we introduce such legislation, there is of course the risk that some of these women will not want or even be able to go out. Instead, they should sit at home and take care of the children. In addition, they are to be paid by Richard Jomshof with custody allowance so that they will just sit at home and take care of the children. How do you free these women? Madam President, I would like Instead, I think the best way to take this debate is to say that all religions must be prepared to renew and modernise themselves and to find a place in modern societies where they take in modern values. This applies to Christianity, where we have seen such a development over the past 400 - 500 years, although we have also seen some setbacks. This must also apply to Islam and other religions. I would welcome a debate within the religions we are talking about. They must ask questions about what values a certain tradition holds. I know that such a debate is taking place, and I welcome it. To go the Swedish democratic path and throw the women out of Sweden or lock them up at home with the help of child care allowance would only exacerbate the gender bias even more.
i-c5573987c968783c-168	Madam President, I would like The path I advocate is also largely advocated by the Social Democrats in Denmark. There we can talk about a party which, unlike the Swedish Social Democrats, sees the problem in a different way. There is an Islamisation of Sweden, and in the wake of mass immigration and multiculturalism, a divided and segregated country is emerging. Parallel societies are emerging, where girls and women are subjected to various forms of oppression. They are not covered by the democratic principles of the surrounding society. Unfortunately, that is the reality in many parts of our country. There is, not least, a normalisation of the deeply anti-women's and women's oppression of Islamism. It is a matter of religious, political, cultural and, unfortunately, sexual oppression. I would like to liken it to a virus that slowly but surely spreads in the democratic body of society, in our democratic, open and equal Sweden. Unfortunately, it happens with the good memory of the government. At least that's my opinion. Those who speak out, question and point to these obvious problems are often discredited, discredited, and ridiculed. Even within their own party, that is, within the Social Democrats, those who dare to question are not safe. Unfortunately, worn-out words such as racists and Islamophobe are swinging to the right and left far too often. Now the Minister has not used them today, and I thank you for that. I do not know whether it is ignorance or lack of knowledge or, in some cases, unfortunately support these Islamic values. Either way, I do not think it is worthy of a country like Sweden. Yes, I have equated Islam and Islamism with Nazism and Communism. Just take a look at the whole Muslim world and you can see that there is definitely a democratic deficit, a deficit in equality and a deficit in freedom of expression. They oppress people and treat them in general very badly. That's it. That's it. That's the fight we're gonna take. We must also be able to call a shovel a shovel if that's what it is.
i-c5573987c968783c-174	Madam President, I would like I even think Richard Jomshof said that Islam is worse than Nazism. The quote is a few years old. Now he is once again in the pulpit talking about the Islamisation of Sweden. No, there is no Islamisation of Sweden. That's what he says, though. But then he goes one step further and talks about viruses. I think Richard Jomshof needs to think a little about what kind of argument he uses. If he continues along this path and talks about viruses and diseases, he is approaching the rhetoric of the 1930s, which I hoped we had left a long time ago. My question in the debate was about how the Swedish Democrats think we should respond to this kind of sexual oppression. Is it the direction that we should try to free these women from sexual oppression or help them to free themselves? ensuring that they receive training, a place in the labour market and can be strengthened in various respects; I note that this is not the policy of the Swedish Democrats. They say they want to send the women back home, even if they may have been here for a very long time. Instead, they will return to Sudan, Iran or Iraq, or they will be locked in their apartments with the help of child custody allowance. This is the policy of the Swedish Democrats. This is where we split up. I myself am a strong secular social democrat. I am a strong supporter of a secular starting point for politics. One must separate the religious and political spheres. At the same time, I am a progressive Social Democrat in the sense that wherever we see different forms of honour and sexual oppression, it must be countered. But it must be countered in such a way that it really becomes effective. Nor should we ever fall into the picture that this is something that speaks for different ethnic groups at large. I think this is the most appropriate way forward.
i-c5573987c968783c-178	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me how vulnerable young people suffering from mental illness get better off with cuts in psychiatry. Furthermore, Tobias Andersson has asked me why the 90 million involved were found earlier if they do not affect existing activities. Finally, Tobias Andersson has asked me if there was no other item of expenditure that could be saved in order to finance the capital injection to Pharmacy Produktion & Laboratories AB, APL, instead of Contributions to Psychiatry. In order to counteract the worrying developments in mental health and strengthen the work of county councils and municipalities, the government has strengthened its efforts in this area. In the decided budget for 2019, approximately SEK 2.2 billion is allocated within the envelope 1:8 Subsidies for psychiatry for interventions in psychiatry and mental health. After the reduction this year, 2.1 billion will be allocated. This is an increase of approximately SEK 360 million compared to the 2018 grant. Mental health is a high priority for the government. In addition to the 1:8 grant for psychiatry, the government is making extensive efforts to strengthen health care. People with mental illness are also an important group within these initiatives. Given that the Government only took office in January 2019, funds will be allocated to county councils and municipalities later than in previous years. The Government has therefore assessed that it is possible to reduce the grant 1:8 in the spring amendment budget for psychiatry for 2019 without affecting the development work in the county councils and municipalities that the state finances.
i-c5573987c968783c-181	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Since autumn 2015, I have been a national spokesperson for the Swedish Democrats Youth League Young Swedes. In other words, I have had overall responsibility for all our youth activities. During the three and a half years, I have had the great privilege of meeting several thousand young people in their schools, in streets and squares, in social settings – in fact, in all possible situations across the country. It is about young people from different socio-economic backgrounds, with different problems in life and with different political opinions. We have discussed security, immigration, climate and defence. We've covered the entire political spectrum. After all these meetings, however, my overall assessment is that one issue stands out as particularly important for unreasonable, hideous and not least untenable numbers of young people in Sweden. That question, Madam President, is the increasingly widespread mental illness among young people in Sweden today. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, this is not just my personal opinion. It is a fact that Bris has alerted about and has established in recent years a post-study study. Not least, the Government itself has highlighted this. Among other things, mental illness among young people aged 10 to 17 according to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has increased by 100 per cent in ten years. Among girls around 15 years of age, a majority report that they have suffered from mental illness, according to a report from the Swedish Public Health Agency. Clearly, a range of policy measures are needed to combat this problem. I am fully aware that it does not only concern the field of expenditure on grants for psychiatry. However, the fact remains that the queues for child and youth psychiatry tripled during the previous term of office and that only a small minority of all regions of Sweden have had the capacity to offer care within the limits of the health guarantee. Madam President, I would like In this situation, in this darkness for all those suffering from mental illness, the Social Democratic Government thus chooses to cut support for psychiatry by SEK 90 million in favour of a capital injection for State Pharmacy Production & Laboratories AB. This is justified by the fact that, according to its own statements, it does not affect work in this area. You might well ask yourself, Madam President: when will one's cuts have an impact on the purpose of an area of expenditure? It is hardly as if the problems I have described, and which I know the Council is fully aware of, have disappeared, so that there would therefore be a motive for this reduction. No, Madam President, to me it is clear: it is, as so often, about how one chooses to prioritise. My question to the Government therefore remains: in what way do vulnerable young people suffering from mental ill health benefit from this reduction? What about your policy for those who wake up every day and feel deeply mentally ill? You have consistently failed in this area for a full term of office. Why would anyone think you'd change your mind now that you're starting your new term of office by cutting in contributions to psychiatry?
i-c5573987c968783c-189	Madam President, I would like I thank Tobias Andersson for a very solid background picture of how things are in Sweden today when it comes to mental illness. The interpellant himself emphasizes that we probably share that picture, and we do, I would say. I have also spent a great deal of time meeting young people – my own children, my friends' children and of course many others – in my mission as politicians and representatives. I think that is my duty. It has been in the past, and it is, of course, even more so today, when I am Minister of Social Affairs. I do not think it has been a day since I was given the opportunity to deal with the whole area as Minister of Social Affairs because I have not spoken about mental illness or met or in any way touched by people who do not have the health that I think young people deserve above all. Of course, as a young person, you should feel that you have your whole life ahead of you. You should be positive and feel confident in the future with all the opportunities that exist. That is not the case, however. There are very many young people suffering from mental illness, although I would like to emphasise that this is a scale where we may not always be so good at drawing all the boundaries for what this means. I myself would like to emphasise that it is important to distinguish between mental illness and child and adolescent psychiatry. There are many young people who feel stressed and pressured, just as Tobias Andersson describes. There is too much in school and too many demands. It's tough to be a teenager and feel pressure from friends, family, school, leisure and so on. But child and youth psychology provide specialist care. It is today a business that has more employees, has more care places and receives more needy or care seekers than before. However, the increase is even greater. Since it is a specialist training course, it is also clear that it takes time to train staff. It is therefore equally important, or perhaps even more important, that we work proactively and ensure that as few people as possible get to the point where they need to go to child and youth psychiatry. Rather, it should be addressed to school and pupil health, to youth clinics and to primary care. We can face this in different ways. The January agreement takes its starting point in this and has counteracting mental illness as one of a number of points. I would very much like to come back to that, Madam President and the interpeller. But now the interpellation is about a reduction that the interpeller describes as a reduction in psychiatry. I don't think it's a fair picture. If I now try to give the interpellier the right to a statement of reality, I hope that the interpeller can be right in saying that we are talking about a reduction of 90 million in an activity that is given 2.2 billion and that we also started this term of office with 20 billion in tax cuts. Perhaps Tobias Andersson remembers that he was in the vote. 17 billion of them were non-funded. It is clear that 20 billion in tax cuts require us to finance solutions within the framework. I would like to tell you what Pharmacy Production & Laboratories AB is. Of course, it sounds like money goes from psychiatry to some capital deficit. APL has a community mission and is wholly owned by the state. They develop, manufacture and provide extemporaneous medicinal products, i.e. medicines used for patients with a narrow need for medicinal products that cannot be satisfied by authorised medicinal products. This is particularly important in the case of medicines for children. 10% of all prescriptions for children are for extemporaneous drugs. Among the youngest children, the figure is even higher. Therefore, it is important that these activities have the resources to provide care with these many times vital medicines for children. Since five months of the year have passed, the assessment is that we can make a saving on an account. I will come back to you in the next speech.
i-c5573987c968783c-196	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank the Government for its answer. However, I must say that the Government's response in no way makes me feel secure about future developments in this area. In my view, there is nothing to suggest that the Social Democrats would be able to reverse this trend, now that they have failed for four years. The little hope I have, however, is that the government chooses to follow us. When we presented our budget yesterday, we presented investments of SEK 2.5 billion against mental illness. 2.5 billion we are investing in combating mental illness, while the Social Democrats are cutting down by 90 million. If, as the government claims, the 90 million cuts to the government would not have any effect, I dare promise you, Madam President, that our efforts would have had that. Our efforts had really offered hope to all those who are currently suffering from mental illness and those at risk of doing so in the future. We are spending 170 million on drawing up and implementing proposals for a national strategy in this area. We're spending 25 million on a national research center. We invest 100 million annually in strengthening the knowledge of early signs of mental illness. In addition, we spend 150 million on the total work for suicide prevention – and more. That, Madam President, is politics that had made a difference and that had ultimately saved lives. I hope, as I said, that the government will be following us in this area, as has been taken after us in other areas. No one would have been happier than me if the Government had already been able to express support for our efforts and make them its own. It is too much to hope for, however, when we have chosen to prioritise differently. Don't get me wrong – I am convinced that the capital injection to Pharmacy Production & Laboratories AB was fully justified. All I'm saying is that there should reasonably have been something else in the entire state budget to save on than contributions to psychiatry. Frankly, Madam President, does the Government of the State Council think it is more important to spend money on international trains than to combat mental illness? Does the government think that beaver safari is more important than combating mental illness? Does the government think that free museums are more important than combating mental illness? That is what the government's spring change budget looks like. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if there is no other area she thinks the government has been able to save in instead and how she views herself with the solid overall package to combat mental illness that the Swedish Democrats presented yesterday. Can the Government admit that investments of SEK 2.5 billion are more useful than cuts of SEK 90 million?
i-c5573987c968783c-202	Madam President, I would like I tried to be a little positive in my last post. But I realise that I did not have much for it, because the interpellant had already written his line, which was about having a confrontation rather than having a meeting on an issue where I think we see a common problem picture. I'll try to explain further. Before Christmas, the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats voted through a budget that prioritised 20 billion in tax cuts. I think that the interpeller can devote the next speech to explaining what the 20 billion could have done in health care and psychiatry. That's pretty much, I'd guess, for staff, skills, work environment and access. But that choice was apparently more important to make. The second is that 360 million more are included in the psychiatry grant this year compared to 2018. This is the reality for all the regions of the country and, for that matter, municipalities which also carry out important activities in this area. They receive an additional SEK 360 million. A spring change budget aims to adjust things that you do not know when the year begins or when you need to resolve situations that arise. Vital medicines for children are also important. That was the change that we made. It would be interesting if the interpeller could explain whether extemporaneous drugs for children are not important. These are vital drugs that allow many children to receive the care they need. It is a business that the market does not manage. There are no profits to be made. That is why it is a state-owned company for which the state, the government and, ultimately, this House have primary responsibility. Since the interpellier does not want to talk as much about the change between appropriations, but wants to talk about the whole mental illness, I would like to inform you that there is a strategy against mental illness and for mental health. It expires in 2020. It is clear that it will be followed by a new one because we think it is extremely urgent. It includes prevention and promotion actions and available and early action. It is about vulnerable groups and looking at leadership and organisation. It contains SEK 350 million for county councils and regions to implement development efforts and SEK 350 million for municipalities to make development efforts. It contains 220 million when it comes to primary care interventions against mental illness at all ages and 250 million to better equip children and young people to deal with their mental illness. It's about accessibility. It is about SEK 130 million to strengthen youth receptions. It is about 24 million to increase user participation and so on. There's a lot of resources. I am convinced that resources matter but also what is done with them. There is solid work that has been done. There has been a national coordinator who has reviewed what efforts are needed. I'm absolutely sure we need to do more. I'm absolutely convinced of that. However, I think we are missing and reducing the question of whether we are making it a matter of 90 million which, in a spring amending budget, is shifted between appropriations to deal with vital medicines for young children.
i-c5573987c968783c-211	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for the answer from the Minister for Social Affairs. We are in complete agreement that we must do more in this area. That is what we have devoted the entire interpellation debate to discussing. The difference between us in this debate and between the Social Democratic government and the Swedish Democratic Party is that the Swedish Democrats spend 2.5 billion in their budget in addition to the government's budget on combating mental illness. Then you cannot stand in Parliament and say that you certainly want to do more and that a lot of resources are being spent on it, but that you cannot do any more. Then we talk about what initiatives are already in place. I am fully aware of that. What I'm talking about, you can read black in white. The Swedish Democrats contribute SEK 2.5 billion to combat this problem that the Social Democrats have been involved in creating and being hand-trapped to solve while the Social Democrats cut out 90 million. It does not matter, Madam President, what already existing expenditure lines the Minister of Social Affairs can quote. I am fully convinced that the capital injection to Apoteket is well deserved. What I highlighted in my previous speech, which the Minister of Social Affairs has now failed to respond to, was that priority should have been given differently. It should have been possible to find another area of expenditure in the whole state budget to cut instead of psychiatry in order to carry out this capital injection. It's not like you didn't have the opportunity. You choose to focus on the previous budget while I think you should take responsibility for the budget that you have presented now. You choose to invest in solar cells and the development of international cultural exchanges. You choose to invest and target investments on beaver safaris and so on, but not to invest against mental illness. Who's better off with that? Can you tell me that our $2.5 billion stakes are more useful than your 90 million cutbacks?
i-c5573987c968783c-217	Madam President, I would like I hope that it will be clear to interpeller Tobias Andersson that there is a strategy. He tries to present it in the interpellation debate as that the Swedish Democrats have an idea that there should be a strategy and resources. There's a strategy. Of course, it always needs to be followed up and renewed. But there is a current strategy that focuses on both regions and municipalities, accessibility, skills, youth receptions and accessibility in primary care. Finally, I would like to remind not only the interpeller, if he has perhaps forgotten, but also any listener that before Christmas we had an M-KD budget with the support of the Swedish Democrats who went through in this House. It was not quite precise, which means that a great deal of work has been done to ensure that resources have been available where needs have been. You then gave priority to tax cuts of SEK 20 billion. You also halved climate investments on the climate allowance. This was something that created problems to solve a whole. Now we are strengthening psychiatry with SEK 360 million compared to 2018. It is the reality for all those who work in psychiatry or work with mental illness in one way or another in Sweden right now. It's not a cutback. On the other hand, we also ensure that severely ill, often children, can get their medicines. It's vital. Based on the amending budget that we have made, there is now the opportunity to deal with both climate investments and mental ill health, even if much more is to be done, and also to ensure that severely ill children receive the necessary medicines. It is possible despite major tax cuts that Tobias Andersson was involved in clubbing through the Chamber.
i-c5573987c968783c-221	I would like to remind you that we are not talking to each other in the speaker's seat but debating with first and last names and that it is the President to whom we are speaking.
i-c5573987c968783c-222	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me if I think it reasonable that for an independent principal it is not possible to determine whether resources are allocated on equal terms with the municipality's own activities. Stockhaus has also asked what concrete measures I intend to take to ensure a level playing field between independent and municipal preschools and schools. Over the past 10 to 15 years, extensive work has been done to ensure that the regulation of the school system is as common as possible, regardless of whether the principal is a municipality or an individual. Examples of this are the regulation of the municipality's contribution to individual principals as well as the current school law that was decided during the period of bourgeois government. To ensure a level playing field between independent and municipal preschools and schools, there are now concrete proposals on the table aimed at increasing transparency in how municipalities calculate contributions to individual principals. The proposals are based on the Cross-Border Sex Party Agreement of the Free School Committee 2013. The study's proposal (SOU 2016:66) to introduce a third component of the grant system, a so-called structural amount, aims, among other things, to increase transparency in municipalities' calculation of grants. Through the structural amount, the resources allocated on the basis of differences in pupil composition between schools, for example on the basis of socio-economic variables, shall be reported separately. The study has also made a proposal that all principals, municipal as individuals, should present financial information at school level. Accounting makes it clear how income and costs are distributed among schools. The proposals have been discussed in the Law Council, and the government is currently working on a proposal including these proposals. As far as Maria Stockhaus is concerned, I think it is reasonable that for a single principal it is not possible to determine whether resources have been allocated on equal terms with the municipality's own activities, so I note that under the grant rules, a municipality that provides grants for a student in an independent preschool or school for the individual principal should be able to account for how the grant has been calculated. The municipality's grant decision can be appealed to the General Administrative Court according to the administrative law. According to the report by the National Association of Free Schools referred to by Maria Stockhaus, the main objection is that different municipalities apply different principles for calculating grants as well as for their financial reporting. Municipalities have great freedom to apply their own principles and decide for themselves which systems to use for their internal budgeting and accounting. According to the rules of the School Act, the municipality must determine the basic amount of the grant to an individual principal on the same basis as the municipality applies when allocating resources to its own corresponding activities. Thus, the criterion of a level playing field is reached between the municipality and the individual principal. Thus, the fact that the basis for the allocation of resources may differ between municipalities, within the framework of local self-government, does not necessarily violate the principle of a level playing field.
i-c5573987c968783c-226	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The intervention is, as I said, about equal conditions for independent and municipal schools. It may sound technical, but really it's about parents and pupils who choose an independent school being able to feel confident that no matter which school they choose, the same resources apply. Today it is demonstrably difficult even to determine whether this is true. That is what the audit report clearly shows. The auditors have gone into the municipalities and tried to find out how they have calculated the school grant in order to be able to determine this. What they really had to do was go in and see if the distribution was done on equal terms. The auditors note that although they have contacted the municipalities and had access to the accounts, they cannot determine whether there is a level playing field. On the one hand, municipalities do different things, but it does not have to be a problem in itself, and on the other hand, it is difficult to determine this because there are so many different costs that one benefits in different ways. This makes this difficult even for an audit firm. At present, the problems will remain, including the changes raised by the Government in its response. The municipalities should of course be able to choose which economic systems they have. But I think it is serious when an independent audit firm, which is an expert in accounting, is unable to determine whether there is a level playing field or not. Then it is difficult, not least for a small free school, to try to get some kind of picture of if you get the money you are entitled to. Accounting per capita will lead to a lot of administration. That criticism has been raised from many quarters. It may lead to more transparency, but the question is whether it is enough and whether it is the right measure. There are free schools that year after year have to appeal the school grant because the municipality simply finds new ways to withhold money from the independent schools. This applies in cases where the municipalities have actually made a correct decision on school money. The report shows – and this is something that the National Association of Free Schools points out quite often – that municipalities also often make decisions about school money in a way that makes it impossible to appeal. That makes it even more tricky. You cannot find out if you have got the right money, and the decision has not been made correctly and therefore you cannot appeal. Unfortunately, this is the situation we have today, and pupils who choose free schools cannot feel that there is hope that it will soon be improved. They cannot be confident that they will have the same resources regardless of which school they choose. The Minister for Education often talks about the importance of equivalence. It's important. You may need to discuss what you mean by that, but there is often talk about how you can influence the student composition in schools and that there should be more money spent on schools with great challenges. It is, of course, important to have differentiated funding depending on the scale of the challenges faced by a school. But it is equally important that you as a student feel confident that there is equal funding. Whether you are a student in need of special support or if you are a normal functioning student, you should be sure that regardless of which school you choose, the same resources apply. Now that the National Associations of Free Schools have presented their report, which clearly shows that there are major problems regarding the equivalence of funding – does the Minister of Education herself believe that the measures she addresses in her response seriously solve the problems pointed out in the report? And how does the Minister of Education intend to ensure that these measures actually have the desired effect?
i-c5573987c968783c-234	Madam President, I would like The work that I have now described and which is going on in the Government Office is based on a six-party agreement, in which Maria Stockhaus' own party was involved, and on the work carried out within the framework of the January Agreement. In the January agreement, the concluding parties have agreed that we should strive for a level playing field. There shall be a level playing field between publicly and privately operated activities. It will be an important task to work on this. On the basis of this, we have in part the six-party agreement that is on the table, where we are now moving forward with proposals on the basis of proposals in the way that I have presented in my interpellation response. We also have the work going on in the framework of two major investigations in the Ministry of Education, which are working on these rather complex issues. This concerns the investigation led by Björn Åstrand, which deals with how segregation in the compulsory school system can be reduced. It also has the task of looking at how resource allocation can be changed in order to improve knowledge outcomes. This also applies to the study led by Lars Stjernkvist, which is about developing a completely new funding model for upper secondary school that will take greater account of the varying conditions of the schools. I think it is important to work on these issues both in the short and long term. Furthermore, I think it is important to point out that the system which Maria Stockhaus is now criticising so strongly is a system where there is an opportunity to appeal. There is a developed court practice that deals with how municipal decision-makers should act in order to meet the requirements of the school law. In addition, as Maria Stockhaus agreed in her speech, there is always a reverse to the regulations that I am now working on to ensure that they will be even better. This applies to the ever-increasing administration, as a system like what we in Sweden have created all the time. It is a certain balancing process to ensure that we have transparency and control of results and the like while ensuring that principals, both independent and municipal, are allowed to devote their time and energy to what we – the hand on the heart – know is most important for the students' results, namely to carry out and plan teaching of high quality. I can assure the interpellant that there is work going on at the Government Office to ensure, both in the short and long term, that we know that the money we spend on school goes to the right things and is spent as fairly as possible. I am also a little hesitant, and I would like to send a question back to Maria Stockhaus. The whole interpellation and speech are characterised by the fact that it is a matter of ensuring that schools receive the compensation to which they are entitled. Do we receive the compensation to which we are entitled? asked Maria Stockhaus. The starting point is then the independent schools. If, instead, we take the students' right to good teaching as a starting point, it is important to look at the whole picture and the entire governance of the Swedish school that we have. Then we have to remember one thing, and that is the question I would like to send back to Maria Stockhaus: does Maria Stockhaus see any problem for the municipal executive and the municipal principal, who has a task that the independent schools never have, namely to ensure that there is education for all students staying in the municipality? Does Maria Stockhaus not see that there is one thing that must also be taken into account when reviewing the compensation systems in the independent and municipal schools?
i-c5573987c968783c-243	Madam President, I would like I do not know if the Minister for Education missed the start of my previous speech. At that point I just pointed out that this is about the students' right to an equivalent education. If you are to be entitled to equal training, it must also be equivalent funding. As a student and parent, you must be able to feel confident that regardless of which school you choose, the same resources apply. I think a good start, for example, could be to have a talk with social democrats in the country. When you are out in the municipalities and even when you talk to the National Association of Free Schools, my view is that the problems of withholding money from independent schools are greater when it is a Social Democratic leadership than when it is an alliance management. Alliance leaders usually have a more positive attitude towards the independent schools. It may be a start to ensure that there is an ambition throughout the party, even in the municipalities, to ensure that there is a level playing field. The Minister for Education mentions the possibility of appeal. Yes, you can. But you can't do that if decisions aren't made the right way. Many municipalities do not make decisions on school money in such a way that free schools can appeal, and this has not in any way addressed the Minister for Education in his answers. We have a process where you should have the opportunity to appeal. It provides security for both students and schools and ensures that you get the resources you need. However, if many municipalities do not take the decisions in such a way that they can be appealed, it is actually quite a big problem, because it pulls away the carpet for this possibility and for the rule of law. I have not heard the address of the Minister for Education. Then there is another issue that is important to have with you. They are happy to talk, including the Minister for Education, about the free schools picking the raisins out of the cake and choosing pupils with special needs. But then we forget the other side of the matter, namely that the municipalities do not send money to children in need of special support to independent schools. I have heard desperate principals at free schools who say that they recommend parents to choose a municipal school, because then you get more money for extra support than if you choose their school. It shouldn't have to be like that. It's not fair. If independent schools opt out of pupils in need of special support, they obviously deserve criticism if they do so because they do not want to make an effort. However, if they do so because they feel that they do not receive the same resources from the municipality as a municipal school, it must be more a political issue that we need to address, both here and out in the municipalities. The freedom of choice for normal functioning pupils who do not need special support must also apply to those who need special support. I do not think it is reasonable for free schools to dress shots when their conditions for receiving children in need of special support are actually much worse. I wanted to hear whether the Minister for Education has a plan to ensure that even children in need of special support can choose a school and that those parents can also be sure that the child will have the extra resources that would have been available if they chose a municipal school.
i-c5573987c968783c-250	Madam President, I would like I can assure Maria Stockhaus that I and my party have no negative image of independent schools. What we are critical of is the control system that prevails in the Swedish school. I think that independent schools have an important role to play in the Swedish school system. I also want to safeguard the ability of parents and students to choose any school they want to go to. But when it comes to the control system, I have big problems. It is an issue that we may have to address in another interpellation debate. I have the feeling that Maria Stockhaus and I have discussed it a number of times. I am not entirely convinced that I will be able to convince Maria Stockhaus of my position, but I will at least continue to take that discussion. I am very upset, Maria Stockhaus, when I hear that principals recommend parents to take their children with special support and go to a municipal school instead of an independent school. I cannot see that it in any way contributes either to fulfilling the freedom of choice in school, which Maria Stockhaus usually cares about very much, or protects the possibility of an equal Swedish school where children and students with different conditions meet on equal terms. I would recommend Maria Stockhaus to have a serious conversation with the principals who say that. They undermine students' opportunities to attend the school that parents would prefer to choose for their children, and they also undermine the possibility of creating an equivalent school in this country. In addition, I think that they contribute to the poor reputation of independent schools as a whole. The Swedish school should be characterized by the fact that we as parents and students have the opportunity to choose which school we want to go to. It should never ever be that schools opt out of students or that schools choose whatever students they want to go there. The information I now receive from Maria Stockhaus will be passed on to the investigations that are sitting and looking at this matter. There is no hiding behind words that the economic system does not provide sufficient conditions for independent schools to accept money for these pupils. The whole idea of the school is that students should be taught, not that independent or municipal schools should receive money for that teaching. Maria Stockhaus has a lot of questions based on, as a fact, that it is impossible to determine how the municipality decides the school grant. I have explained to the municipalities how the grant is calculated by cost category, unless there are special reasons. The municipality's decision can be appealed to the administrative court if the decision is perceived as incorrect. I myself have strong faith in our law enforcement agencies. There is work going on, on the one hand, after the six-party agreement to correct some things that have been considered unfair, and on the other hand in the longer term to review both the funding system for upper secondary education and the allocation of resources for basic education. I very much look forward to receiving the proposals that come from those investigations.
i-c5573987c968783c-257	Madam President, I would like I also get upset when an independent principal recommends parents to put their children in a municipal school instead of the school where the parents prefer to have the children, but for some other reasons than the Minister for Education. In this case, it's about principals who want to receive the students. We all want a resource allocation based on the student base. If you have a child who needs, for example, a student assistant or extra time with a special educator, you normally get extra resources in most municipalities, extra money to fund what goes beyond regular teaching. In order for a free school to offer it on the same terms as a municipal school, it must receive the same funding. In the cases of the principals I have talked to, it is about the fact that the independent school in their municipalities does not receive as much money. If they are looking for money for children in need of special support, they do not receive it, but if a municipal school is applying for money for the same student, it will receive it. Then I understand the principals who, especially out of concern for the student, recommend a municipal school instead. They know that that school gets extra money to fund the support the student needs. I think this is a great betrayal. How municipal politicians can act in this way is completely incomprehensible. But if we see this now, we must do something about it. Then I still have no reply from the Minister for Education to the question of municipalities taking decisions on school allowances in such a way that they cannot be appealed. I have not heard an answer to that question at all, whether the Minister for Education sees it as a problem or whether it is included in any plan to take action. The National Association of Free Schools clearly points this out in the report drawn up by the auditors.
i-c5573987c968783c-262	Madam President, I would like Of course, when students have a need for extra support, those students should get it. We have decided here in Parliament on a read-write-count guarantee that will provide greater protection for those students who really need early support. Of course, it is also the case that early support costs money. It does for all principals in the Swedish school. If a principal is not prepared to take on the responsibility of giving all children and students the education they are entitled to, I think you should consider what role you want to play in the Swedish school system. The picture that Maria Stockhaus paints, where in a municipal school it is very easy to get extra resources for student assistants and special educators, is not a picture that I recognize. I think we agree, Maria Stockhaus, that the Swedish school has a number of problems and that there is a huge shortage of special educators and sometimes a great lack of resources. The image that these resources are more accessible in the municipal school breaks quite strongly with the picture you get when, for example, you study the annual reports of the large school groups and see how much money from our school money goes to the owners – owners who sometimes sit far beyond Sweden's borders. The Swedish school system has a number of problems. They include the fact that governance does not always lead to the best results of knowledge and the highest equivalence. As Minister of Education, I will work very hard to ensure that the school's focus is on knowledge results that are high and that are equal, i.e. that all students should have a good chance of achieving the knowledge that they should bring with them from the Swedish school. If we are to do this together, we must ensure that there are conditions in our schools that make it possible for teachers to teach as well as possible. That should be the subject of the debate. I will do my best to ensure that the resource system is as well as possible in line with that.
i-c5573987c968783c-266	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me whether I think it is reasonable to conclude a supervisory decision only on the basis of a principal's written statement and what measures I intend to take in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's report. The state's school inspection oversees the school system. As a minister, I am prevented from deciding how an authority should decide on a matter or how it should apply law. However, a key objective of the supervisory work is to address any errors and shortcomings and to develop and improve the work of schools. In the review report from the Swedish National Audit Office that Maria Stockhaus refers to in her interpellation, Safety, study and measures against insulting treatment and Extra adaptations and special support are the areas of assessment that are in focus. In the Swedish National Audit Office's review, a number of recommendations are addressed to the Swedish School Inspectorate. The Government will present its assessment of the Swedish National Audit Office's observations and the measures the Government intends to take in response to the observations in the letter to be submitted to the Riksdag in response to the review report. I will not precede that letter. The government is working to further increase security and education in Swedish schools. Sweden's teachers and vice-chancellors should have the tools to create safe schools. Threats and violence at school are totally unacceptable. The provisions of the School Act that school education should be designed so as to ensure that all pupils are provided with a school environment characterised by safety and that studies must be complied with by all principals. In July 2019 changes to the curricula for primary and secondary schools, among other things, will enter into force that clarify the Vice-Chancellor's special responsibility for this. The responsibility of pupils to show respect for school staff and other pupils is also highlighted by these curriculum changes. Ordering and learning in the classroom is a prerequisite for students' learning and development. A safe working environment also promotes the attractiveness of the teaching profession. The school's work to achieve security and education includes disciplinary measures as well as educational leadership and to counteract insulting treatment. As with much else in school, both clear rules and systematic development work are needed to achieve the results we seek. The government will implement a plan for safety and education at school, to review the possibilities for disciplinary action, to introduce a mobile phone ban in classrooms and to ensure a functioning regulatory framework for good work with security and education at school. Students who have threatened or subjected others to violence should be able to switch off or relocate more easily. The disciplinary measures of the School Act should be used by teachers and principals. Teachers should be able to carry out their work with security in their professional activities and with the support of the principal and school head.
i-BugyvrskAycCF4Brc4z5uD	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer to this interpellation too! Yesterday the Swedish National Agency for Education presented a report on safety and education at school. What was gratifying there was that nine out of ten teachers actually enjoy schooling. This is not really the picture you get when you read what is written in the media. But there are things that are alarming, and it is, among other things, that 40 percent of the students actually think that the lessons are messy. Another number that worries me a lot is that bullying has increased from 3 to 6 percent. We know that bullying can have very long-term consequences for the students who are vulnerable. So it is very important that schools work with these issues in a good way. I believe that the introduction of the School Inspectorate was one of the most important reforms of the Alliance Government. Previously, this control function did not exist in the same way. We often talk about an equal school, and without quality follow-up we cannot know if all students receive a good education. So this is very important. The school inspectorate's reviews have also evolved over time. From the beginning it was more about law and to look at the fact that all the papers were in place, but now it has begun to look more at the quality of teaching and the real situation in schools. It is gratifying and, I believe, also a good prerequisite for us to have an equivalent school system. The inspection report is also a good basis for working with the necessary changes at a school, but the question of the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism will certainly come back to us. We Moderates think that it is very serious criticism that concerns a critical area for the school, not least with regard to the report that the Swedish National Agency for Education came up with yesterday. If there is no security and study in a school, students cannot learn what they are supposed to learn. Checking the law, for example if there is no document, can be done afterwards and on paper. However, when a school receives criticism, it is important that the school manager also takes action. It is not enough to document and submit documents, but it must actually mean something at school. It must prove to be a safe school. Just because action is taken does not necessarily improve. The school should be based on scientific basis and proven experience. I am aware, and I am sure that the Minister for Education is also aware, that, despite the fact that there are some different programmes in school, including in the area of security, education and bullying, which are not based on scientific foundations and which are not evaluated so that it can be said to be based on proven experience either. Therefore, it is particularly important to be able to really measure that there is a difference and that the School Inspectorate, after having directed criticism, also ensures that the situation has really changed at the school. Evaluation is really important, and it is not enough to describe what has been done to improve the situation. Does the Minister of Education not think that we have a duty for students to really ensure that a change has taken place at school?
i-c5573987c968783c-278	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stockhaus boasts of the establishment of the School Inspectorate. I would like to take this opportunity to remind Maria Stockhaus that when the School Inspectorate was set up, the whole aim of that reform was to give more attention to supervision – it was a strictly legal supervision – and not to school development. In particular, the Alliance government indicated in both school teams and various instructions that school development at national level should not be conducted. We've learned a lot since then. We have learned, among other things, that Swedish schools need not only supervision and an inspection based on legal controls, but they need supervision that is actually about what is happening in the classroom. We need systematic quality work, and we need school authorities who are present in schools and provide active support in the same way that we have school authorities present in classrooms that observe and see where the problems are and what measures need to be taken. That is why I am very pleased and proud that we have developed school policy so that we have more closely approached active work from the school authorities where they contribute to developing the quality of teaching. I can clearly see that the School Inspectorate is working in this way more and more, and I welcome it. I think it is positive that the School Inspectorate has a clearer role in just caring about what is happening in the classroom. After all, it is in the meeting between teachers and pupils that the school's most important task lies. I also welcome the fact that the Swedish National Agency for Education, based on the inspection reports and supervision produced by the Swedish School Inspectorate, can work more actively to attend and support schools. This systematic quality work has been demanded by the principals for many years. Maria Stockhaus and I are probably in agreement that we need more to develop the systematic quality work of the principals, but for my part I am very pleased that we have started to engage in a state systematic quality work with the aim of actually helping to develop the quality of Swedish schools. This was a rather long-winded attempt to answer Maria Stockhaus's question as to how I see the need for state school authorities to actually contribute to developing the quality of our schools. I take a very positive view of it, and I see a great need for it. So far, I have not understood that there is any difference between Maria Stockhaus's view on the matter and the view that I am representing now, except that Maria Stockhaus's party has spoken out in favour, if I have not completely misunderstood it, of closing down several of the major programmes that the Swedish National Agency for Education now has to contribute to strengthening the quality of our schools. As I said in my answer, I cannot and do not want to anticipate the response that the government is to give to the National Audit Office's report, but I can point out that we will certainly have long and interesting discussions here in Parliament once the government delivers that answer.
i-c5573987c968783c-284	Mr President, I would like to I believe that we agree on the importance of achieving systematic quality work in all schools. One basis for it to work, and why I think the establishment of the School Inspectorate was a good reform of the Alliance Government, is that there is a need for an authority that is independent from the development mission and is working on an inspection. We will discuss Collaboration for best school in the next interpellation debate, but the Moderates have produced a similar proposal dealing with knowledge contracts. It is a matter of government responsibility to support schools when the school has been subject to inspection. In some cases the principal may be small, the school may be stuck in familiar patterns and help may be needed to break them. We think that's good. Then there was the question of closing programmes. I do not know where the Minister for Education has got this. What we think is important is to review all targeted state subsidies. If I am not mistaken, there are over 40 different grants to be applied for, then rereported and then applied for again. Many municipalities are not able to do so. Statskontoret and other authorities have reviewed this issue and made a lot of criticism. We want to review the grants and see if it is possible to put more money into what we call knowledge contracts or Collaboration for the best school, which we would like to further develop; thus add the money to various targeted government grants in them. We do not want to reduce resources for schools but perhaps make sure that there are more targeted state subsidies based on what the individual school needs. The Minister for Education, as the Minister's party colleagues did in the debate yesterday, points out that the government will implement a plan for safety and education at school. It sounds good at first sight, but the only concrete thing we have seen so far is a ban on mobile phones – and we have also debated that in the past. Let us analyse a little more a plan at national level. I see more targeted state subsidies and more detailed control of the type of mobile phone ban. If that is what will happen with the plan, it may be better to let the principals continue to work on the tools they already have to create security and studyo and to create an inspection that works. The principals themselves say in the evaluation presented by the Swedish National Agency for Education that they have the tools they need. In some cases the tools are not used for various reasons. There we need to consider why the tools are not used. Instead of developing a large, vulgar plan at national level that may sound good but which risks becoming at best a blow in the air and, at worst, further detailed management of state subsidies to schools, which further complicates their activities rather than focusing on what the individual school needs, I want to go back to what the interpellation is about, i.e. the School Inspectorate's follow-up of safety and study in school. It is almost all the more important when a school has received criticism that the Swedish School Inspectorate really follows up on that it has improved. A statement that this, and this has been done by the school, does not guarantee that it has improved. I would like to appeal to the Minister for Education to scrap the idea of a national action plan, to ensure that the School Inspectorate's follow-ups and evaluations work and that schools get help through Collaboration for the best school or other ways to improve work around security and study. In addition, the inspection shall ensure that schools use methods that have a scientific basis and are properly evaluated. An action plan may sound good at first sight, but I see many great risks with such work.
i-c5573987c968783c-291	Mr President, I would like to I have worked hard on the issue of security and education in my relatively short time as Minister of Education. The reason why I have chosen to do this is that the Swedish school is characterized by a double picture. On the one hand, we see teachers, principals, parents and students who go to schools where they enjoy themselves and where they feel that the skills and studies are good. On the other hand, we also see schools where there are appalling examples of lack of security and education. I see a great need to ensure the order and order in the classrooms that students need if they are to learn a lot. Maria Stockhaus is committed to attacking the government's proposal to impose a mobile phone ban at school. Let me remind Maria Stockhaus that as many as two thirds of the teachers in Swedish school, if we look at high school, indicate that every day in teaching they are disturbed by the students' chatting, texting, gambling or whatever it may be. Of course, this affects not only security and study, but also opportunities to learn much. A friend of mine who served as a substitute at school told me that it was much calmer in high school because the messy students sat in the back and played games instead of disturbing the lesson. It is for me a horrifying picture of how the use of mobile phones in the classroom can actually contribute to students not even participating in teaching. Why is regulation needed? I could turn the question back to Maria Stockhaus. The truth is that today's regulation that allows mobile phone use in the classroom, unless the teacher can rely on a local rule of order, or if the teacher can't rely on the fact that the mobile phone has actually already interfered with teaching, goes deep into the classroom. This regulation means a lot to the teachers' ability to direct and lead the work in the classroom. For me, Maria Stockhaus's view of this regulation is a riddle, that is to say, the current school law developed under the Alliance Government, which actually allows this, which places a great deal of effort on teachers to ensure that pupils do not have mobile phones with them, unless teachers are lucky enough to work at a school where there are local regulations. Why should it be a regulation that is in any way better or, for that matter, less intervention in teachers' professional activities every day? I will work on these issues and I will ensure that the national regulatory framework supports teachers and principals who want to maintain security and study in the classroom. I will also ensure that the national regulatory framework supports the many parents and pupils who want the school to be characterised by security and education. I look forward to doing this work together with the Centre Party and the Liberals in the framework of the January Agreement. I would very much welcome if more parties in Parliament wanted to join that work.
i-c5573987c968783c-297	Mr President, I would like to In the evaluation that the Swedish National Agency for Education presented yesterday, the principals themselves say that they have the tools they need. Then I can be particularly concerned about the action plan. We have discussed the ban on mobile phones many times, and I agree with the Minister for Education's view that in some classrooms the mobile phone is a disturbing element. But there is legislation that allows them to be removed. There are no obstacles. This is confirmed by what the principals say in this investigation, namely that they have the tools they need. I also know that the Minister for Education is happy to talk about trust-based governance. I share the view that there is a need for more trust in the education system. But trust is not created through detailed control. Trust is created by giving responsibility and authority where they belong, i.e. at the school of principals and teachers. Going in with the kind of regulation that a mobile phone ban means is really telling teachers and principals that they can't do this on their own. What should the Action Plan contain? The principals say they have the tools. Should a mobile phone ban be seen as a step along the way? Then I can be really worried. What is the more detailed control to be introduced? There are still schools where security and study work. Is it possible to learn from those schools? Can we make sure that the School Inspectorate's follow-ups and evaluations work properly? I am sure that we will come back to these issues when the government will present its letter. But if you don't propose any changes, we'll have to do it later. It is reasonable to give responsibilities and powers, then follow up and demand action, instead of directing in detail from the Riksdag with a mobile phone ban and to develop a plan with other detail management elements. Then trust is destroyed, and we clearly say that we do not believe that they are up to the task. Then there must be detailed control from the Riksdag. It doesn't create trust.
i-c5573987c968783c-302	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stockhaus speaks well of the importance and need for trust. On this issue, I would really like to emphasise how important it is for school governance to take place with a look from below. For a long time from the Swedish Parliament and from the Government Office, we have managed the school with a strong top view. We have sometimes cared more about the content of press releases than about the content of the teaching that the decisions result in. For my part, I am fully committed to the fact that school management must take place with the strong support of the professions that actually spend their days in classrooms and in the headmaster's room. For me, however, there is a completely unanswered question. I have asked Maria Stockhaus several times and never received an answer. How does it signal more trust in teachers if legislation says that students can have mobile phones on just how much they want in classrooms? The teachers who want to do something about it and think that it interferes with the teaching are then forced to base themselves either on an allegedly rather complicated regulation in the School Act – it is some chapters and paragraphs that should be looked up and guidance in legal Swedish that should be searched on the Swedish National Agency for Education's website – or on a locally developed regulation. However, the many teachers who don't have those conditions end up in the situation that two thirds of the teachers describe in the Swedish National Agency for Education's evaluations of IT use, namely that the teaching is daily disturbed by chatting, texting and gambling. For me, it is a signal of trust in the teachers to say: We want to trust you. We want you to decide whether mobile phones can be used in the classroom or not, not the legislation.
i-c5573987c968783c-306	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stockhaus has asked me partly why the Swedish National Agency for Education has not been tasked with monitoring the results of knowledge at the schools that have received the initiative Collaboration for the best school, and also whether I will take the initiative to give such a commission to the Swedish National Agency for Education. The initiative Collaboration for best school, where the Swedish National Agency for Education in dialogue with principals conducts targeted interventions to schools and preschools with particularly difficult conditions, means new ways of working for the Swedish National Agency for Education. The Swedish National Agency for Education has been tasked with following up the mission and keeping the Government Office continuously informed of the progress of the mission. The Swedish Agency for Education has also begun a process evaluation of Collaboration for the best school, where the knowledge about the development effort will be deepened. One purpose of the Swedish National Agency for Education's evaluation is to investigate how the implementation of Collaboration for Best School has worked in practice. The evaluation shall also examine the development of the systematic quality work of the participating authorities and school units. Finally, the evaluation will report how, among other things, students' learning outcomes have changed after the school units' participation in Best School Collaboration. A first interim report of the evaluation will be presented in spring 2019. The Swedish National Agency for Education has also investigated the possibility of studying effects on the quality of teaching and the student's knowledge results in a so-called impact assessment. However, an impact assessment would require a set-up of intervention schools and control schools, where the latter would be withheld support from the National Agency for Education to form a comparison group. According to the current assignment, the Swedish National Agency for Education's efforts should be directed to those principals, schools and preschools with the greatest need. The Authority has therefore considered that, on the basis of the mandate, it is not possible to adapt the selection of schools in the manner that such a structure would require. However, the Swedish National Agency for Education is also carrying out targeted efforts to the authorities within the mission "Actions to strengthen the quality of education for newly arrived children and pupils and, if necessary, for children and pupils with a mother tongue other than Swedish". These efforts are based on similar approaches as those within Collaboration for Best School. Within this assignment, the Swedish National Agency for Education's offer of targeted support to partially randomised principals will allow for an impact review because a comparison group will then be created. The mission is evaluated by the Institute for Labour and Education Policy Evaluation, IFAU. The IFAU evaluation includes five rounds of principals who have been offered support. I will take note of IFAU's evaluation with great interest and do not rule out the possibility that similar evaluation arrangements may continue to be in place in the future.
i-c5573987c968783c-311	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Education, for this answer too. Collaboration for the best school I think is a good example of how the state can support schools that have received criticism from the Swedish School Inspectorate. We Moderates have long had a similar proposal, as we call knowledge contracts. The big difference between the government's Collaboration for best school and our knowledge contracts is that we want it not to be voluntary to participate: If you have received serious criticism from the School Inspectorate, you should have to receive help. The Director-General of the National Agency for Education visited the Education Committee not long ago, and then we discussed, among other things, Collaboration for the best school. I specifically asked if the Swedish National Agency for Education had the task of monitoring the students' results. The Director General of the National Agency for Education made it clear that it has not. It is obviously important to evaluate the process. It is about how schools experience this, how they experience the efforts and cooperation with the Swedish National Agency for Education. It's very important, absolutely, and it's done. It is included in the reports that have come so far regarding Collaboration for the best school. But the government spends a great deal of money on this business, nearly 2.7 billion over a number of years. And it is important, I think, that we as politicians are careful to evaluate. Does the money give us the effect we want, or do we have to screw it up or do something else? When it's as much money as we're talking about, it's got to be a top priority. The main purpose of Collaboration for the best school is that students' results should be better. Now it seems a little confused because the National Agency for Education says one thing and the Minister for Education another when it comes to whether to evaluate the students' results. I have visited a number of schools that receive help within the framework of Collaboration for the best school. In fact, I have also visited Botkyrka and talked to the school that has received input from the Swedish School Inspectorate – been taken over or whatever they say. None of these schools say that there is a plan for how to follow up students' knowledge development within the framework of the project they have with the Swedish National Agency for Education. I find it rather remarkable. I understand that it was chosen not to have impact evaluation with control schools and other things in view of which schools are selected. Having another school with major problems that do not get any effort is not reasonable with regard to those students. However, there must still be a clear structure and a plan for monitoring the knowledge development of the pupils in the schools that receive these efforts. Mr President, I would like to SEK 2.7 billion is a terrible amount of money. As I said, the aim is for students to get better results. The fact that we're not following up on it seems rather strange, I have to say. I know we've had discussions on other evaluations. It was about school absence. It feels like it is not there when you present these major reforms or the proposals that you should actually follow up on how things are going. Somewhere it feels pretty crucial, especially when we invest so much money in school. Now there are signs that the equivalence money is not being well spent either, so the follow-up and evaluation are extremely important. Now it seems that the Director General of the Swedish National Agency for Education and Education and the Minister for Education do not really agree on what the next report on Collaboration for the best school should look like and what it should contain, whether or not it should include the students' performance development. I may have reason to come back to that point.
i-c5573987c968783c-320	Mr President, I would like to To the extent that Maria Stockhaus' criticism is that the evaluation would not account for how, among other things, the students' knowledge results have changed after the school units' participation in Collaboration for the best school, it is my opinion that this is part of the mission that the Swedish National Agency for Education has received. I have explained it in the interpellation response, and I will of course – just as I assume Maria Stockhaus will – follow up on the matter and see if there is any kind of misunderstanding along the way. I think you should keep a number of things separate. It is possible, I think, to argue that it is important to follow up the results of various reforms and actions. I think we have done too little about it in the Swedish school. If we look at the very large and comprehensive reforms that took place during the time of the alliance government, with new curricula, new curricula and new school teams, we see that the evaluations of those efforts shine with their absence. I am really interested in finding ways to better evaluate the impact of interventions. I can only remind you of the joy we had in introducing comprehensive school in the 1960s in such a way that it was possible to make a sensible impact assessment for those students who have attended the coherent primary school compared to those who have not. At the same time, the hand on the heart, the impact assessment of school reforms is probably one of the hardest things you can do. It is difficult enough to comment on the effects that have arisen. At the same time, to take on the task of evaluating how these effects have arisen and the role played by the various reforms, yes, that is a notoriously difficult task. Two very different conclusions can be drawn from this difficulty: that we must try even more and put great emphasis and effort on this, or that we should refrain from doing so. Personally, I am among those who think that we should make more effort and be better and more careful when it comes to finding out more about how our school reforms actually work out in the real world. This is also the reason why the government, for example, has commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to review the curriculum texts that were developed during the alliance period and that have received quite strong criticism from teachers. So yes, it is important to evaluate reforms, but at the same time it is very difficult. In this case, the Swedish National Agency for Education has clearly stated in its interim report that the design that this operation has received, namely that the schools with the greatest need get an input, makes it difficult to have a randomized approach to an impact assessment. Now I speak almost Greek here in Parliament's speaker's chair – I apologise for that and note that I wonder how disagreeable Maria Stockhaus and I really are in this area. I think we are right to agree that this type of action should be evaluated, and I think we also agree that it is difficult. I even think we agree that the difficulty should not restrain us.
i-c5573987c968783c-328	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, it's hard. But what I object to is that the Director-General says on an explicit question: No, we have no mission to follow up the students' knowledge development in these schools. This worried me, and that was why I put this interpellation. Now, as I said, it seems that you have different opinions, and then you have to wait for the next report and see if this is included. In fact, when, during my visits to these schools, I asked whether it is there to follow up how this affects the students' results, I have in many cases been met by school leaders who are looking at me with a big question mark. They say that they are very satisfied with all the efforts and that the collaboration with the Swedish National Agency for Education has worked very well, but when I ask if the results they look at me as they do not understand the question. That picture of the setup makes me concerned, because focus must be the students' results. That was the purpose of Collaboration for the best school, and that was the purpose of our knowledge contracts. It's the same thinking about both of them. However, if we do not ensure that follow-up of the students' results is an essential and natural part of the programme, which I see and hear from the Director-General as well, I find it remarkable. That's 2.7 billion going out to the schools. I also understand that it is difficult– there is a lot that affects school outcomes. Nevertheless, there must be an ambition to do so. It's the one I totally miss, to be honest with you. We have also debated school absenteeism, and the Minister for Education does not want national follow-up. We discussed the school inspectorate's follow-up, and there I feel we have to wait and see what the government is writing. But there is a doubt about the government's intentions regarding the follow-up of the school in Sweden today. A number of national tests have also been removed. There are absolute doubts about their value in measuring results. We look forward to digitalization and external correction in order for them to give a more objective picture of how things are going out in schools. However, since national tests have been removed, I do not really believe that we have the same intentions in terms of monitoring and evaluation. It is easy to talk about it, but what I see in practical action is not quite in line with what the Minister for Education says. Another thing when it comes to monitoring and evaluation is that the amount of state subsidies and the whole apparatus that comes with them in the form of administration have received a lot of criticism for a very long time. That this has been built on is the fault of several governments, including the alliance government. But the criticism has come in recent times. Nor can I see that there is any ambition on the part of the government to reduce the number of state subsidies. In connection with what we talked about earlier, the Action Plan for Security and Studyo, I can rather see that there can be even more special-destined state subsidies. There is an evaluation that says that this is not an effective way of spending money. This does not lead to better school outcomes and does not benefit the schools that need the money. Where is the ambition, now that there is a follow-up and evaluation, to actually do something about the problem? It is very possible that the Minister for Education believes in what she says and says in the speaker's chair, but in practical action I see very little responsibility in terms of monitoring and evaluating reforms and measures when this does not work.
i-c5573987c968783c-337	Mr President, I would like to I don't really know where to start. The interpretation is about the evaluation of a specific project. We have now got into a discussion where we talk about much else. It is impossible for me to review Maria Stockhaus' descriptions of what she hears from principals and teachers in the country. I can counter that when I meet principals and teachers in the framework of Collaboration for Best School, I don't get the picture that Maria Stockhaus reports at all. On the contrary, I get the impression that, as Maria Stockhaus says, one is very pleased with the effort that has been made and that one clearly talks about the pupils' knowledge results and how important it is to have a follow-up and ensure that the students have a progression in their learning. Maria Stockhaus also refers to a previous interpellation debate and claims that I have said that I do not want any follow-up to students' absences. It's a truth with modification. This is an issue that we are preparing in the Government Office. What I did in the interpellation debate, which I hoped Maria Stockhaus would appreciate, was to problematise the issue from a bottom-up perspective – to see the issue also with the eyes of principals, teachers and principals and ask me how best to ensure that they really work with problematic absences. Where is the limit for how much administration and how much reporting burden we are going to put on the principals? Maria Stockhaus addresses the need to keep track of students' knowledge development and the issue of national tests. I am very proud that the government is now moving on to digitise the national tests. This is an area where there was a very great need for development when the first Social Democratic-led government took office, and we have taken major initiatives to ensure that the National Agency for Education is now at the forefront of the digitisation of national tests. It is a digitalisation that will take a lot of time and is actually resource-intensive because so little had been done during the time when the national tests were built up to the large volume they have today. I am also very proud of the change of rules that we have carried out with strong support in the Riksdag and that the national tests should be corrected by a teacher other than the one responsible for teaching and grading. I think that will be good for equivalence. I am also pleased with the provision that we have introduced to take greater account of the results of the national tests when grading. There is much to do when it comes to monitoring pupils' performance. My definite picture, which I have expressed in this interpellation debate, is that the Swedish National Agency for Education in the evaluation that the government has asked for will also report – now I read before – how, among other things, the students' knowledge results have changed after the school units' participation in Collaboration for best school. I will, of course, follow up on the questions that Maria Stockhaus has now raised, which stem from the fact that Maria Stockhaus has received other information.
i-c5573987c968783c-343	Mr President, I would like to I'll get back to Collaboration for the best school. I also feel a little confused when you get different messages from the Minister for Education and the Director-General. I hope that in the next report, which will come this spring, there is an account of how the efforts that have been made have affected the students' performance – or at least what the performance development looks like in the schools that have received input. There may be other things that affect the development of results. Somewhere, however, this is extremely important. I hope that the Minister for Education is right and that this mission is carried out. But I am concerned that the Director-General said so clearly that it does not. Monitoring and evaluation are important, and there is always a balance in terms of administration. When it comes to absenteeism, we demand that all principals follow it up at their schools, and the vast majority of schools have digital systems for this. This means that it is possible to solve more automated than the re-reporting of state grants and other things, which require more of essay writing and description of what has been done. I think it's important that we know what it looks like with the absence in Sweden, because it's a big problem that many students aren't in school. I'm sure we'll have reason to come back. As I said, I eagerly await the evaluation of Collaboration for Best School in the next report.
i-c5573987c968783c-347	Mr President, I would like to I have not received any feedback from Maria Stockhaus on the, I think, very interesting evaluation that is underway in relation to an effort that is close to Collaboration for the best school, namely the so-called New Arrivals mission. There the Swedish National Agency for Education, thanks to the fact that the measure is aimed at so many of our principals, has had the opportunity to set up the evaluation so that it will be an impact assessment, where randomization can be used as a method. I, for my part, look forward to getting those results. I have strong hopes that they will be a joy for many school development efforts, not least what we call Collaboration for the best school. I would like to thank Maria Stockhaus for the interpellation and to ensure that we will work hard to ensure not only good resources for school development on a scientific basis, but also that we ensure that those resources are used properly.
i-c5573987c968783c-350	Mr President, I would like to Kristina Axén Olin has asked me whether I intend to implement the School Commission's proposal to strengthen equivalence as announced by the Prime Minister in the Government Declaration. The deterioration of equivalence in Swedish schools is a very serious development that must be curbed. The 2015 School Commission was appointed with the task of making proposals aimed at raising knowledge outcomes, improving the quality of teaching and increasing equivalence in schools. In 2017, the School Commission submitted its final report Collection for the School, SOU 2017:35. As regards school segregation, the School Commission points out that differences in performance between primary schools are increasing strongly. The increase is explained by the fact that the differences between the student composition of schools based on family and migration backgrounds are increasing. This increased division of schools is likely to lead to a deterioration of equivalence in the form of increased differences in quality between schools. It also undermines the important value of meeting students of different backgrounds at school. In its final report, the School Commission proposes a national strategy to create a robust school system. The proposals are intended to benefit all pupils, and the goal is for all pupils to be given the opportunity to develop as far as possible. At the same time, the School Commission points out that measures aimed at reducing school segregation and increasing the financial conditions for an equivalent school require further consideration. Therefore, in July 2018, an investigation was set up, which is tasked with further work on the School Commission's proposal, analysing and considering, among other things, how the rules on placement in municipal school units and the reception and selection of independent schools should be amended in order to further promote a comprehensive social composition of pupils. The investigator shall report on his/her mission by 30 March 2020. It is important that changes in school are sustainable in the long term. The Government will therefore await the report of the investigation and then take a position on the proposals regarding, among other things, the location, reception and selection of schools. My ambition is to achieve a more equal school, where children and students from different backgrounds meet. However, it is of the utmost importance that efforts are already being made to improve the equivalence of schools. Several of the School Commission's proposals have already begun to be implemented. An example of this is the new state aid for increased equivalence and knowledge development. The support amounts to SEK 3.5 billion in 2019 and will be distributed so that the resources are weighted according to the pupils' socio-economic background. The January Agreement provides for the strengthening of this State aid. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the OECD has recently made a number of recommendations in a recent report, after examining Sweden, for increased equivalence and reduced school segregation. I note that, in several respects, the OECD conclusions are consistent with the description of the Swedish school presented by the School Commission and that several of the recommendations are in line with ongoing investigations and measures.
i-c5573987c968783c-356	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Education for his reply, although I do not really think I am getting the exact answer to the question I asked. However, it is gratifying that we agree that, as the Government points out, differences in quality between our schools in Sweden are incredibly serious and that segregation in Swedish schools is increasing. The most important measure to reduce school segregation and to enable students to leave excluded and make class trips is to invest in a school that really equips students with the right skills. Unfortunately, today we see large differences in performance between schools in Sweden. We have fantastic schools with good results and experienced and qualified teachers, where students get solid knowledge and can make class trips and be equipped for a future where everyone is given the chance. But we also have schools that year after year are suffering from poor results, mess and disorder in the classrooms, a large proportion of unauthorized and inexperienced teachers, where students are at risk of being dragged into lifelong exclusion. That is totally unacceptable. Schools that fail their mission despite efforts and help should not be allowed to continue. We Moderates have proposed that we develop national quality requirements in order to evaluate the quality of our schools. The school inspectorate will review the schools, and the schools that do not meet the requirements must sign a knowledge contract with, together with the Swedish National Agency for Education, with demands for measures but also with support and help. Then we can ensure that all schools are of reasonable quality. Those schools that are not of sufficient quality after efforts and assistance must be able to decide to close down. In the answer, I note that the Government does not share the entry into the question of school segregation that I describe. Instead, the Government discusses in terms of the importance of a mixed student composition, even talking about the drawing of pupils to different schools. It is important to note that the main reason for school segregation is housing segregation. The research available shows that the design of free school choices contributes very little to strengthening school segregation. Instead, the problem is that too few students make an active school choice. The free choice of school allows students to choose a different school from the nearest school in the residential area. We need to get more students to make an active choice. We must encourage pupils in socio-economically vulnerable areas to make more active and informed choices. With more information and information in many languages, this can be done. For example, we see in the municipality of Nacka, where active school elections were introduced, that the result was that pupils in the socio-economically most vulnerable area made the best informed school elections. The OECD is actively proposing school choices, and this is also one of the School Commission's proposals for greater equivalence. I will come back to my question, where I wonder what the government really means. The Prime Minister said in the Government Declaration that the School Commission's proposal for increased equivalence will be implemented. But what concrete proposals did he mean? In the budget debate here in Parliament last week, the Minister for Finance also said that the School Commission's proposal for strong equivalence is now being implemented. What proposals are to be implemented?
i-c5573987c968783c-366	Mr President, I would like to When we discuss the increasing school segregation we usually discuss on two different lines. One line is about what we as politicians can do to counteract the effects and deal with the negative effects of the fact that the school has become so divided. There we are not discussing completely different things between the parties. We are talking about various forms of support for results. From the government's side, we have announced that we will continue with the equivalence grant that is completely new and unique and actually takes greater account of students' needs than previous state grants have done. We discuss how to ensure that we counteract educational segregation, which is sometimes referred to, i.e. that the most experienced teachers rarely find themselves in schools where the needs are greatest. We are also talking about the sometimes need to close down schools. It's something I'm no stranger to. When a school has become so segregated that it is unable to carry out good teaching and you have come to the end of the road, it may be better to lay down the school than to provide resources. This was done, for example, in Malmö, where a number of schools have been closed down. These results have not been unequivocally negative, on the contrary. But the similarities stop as we approach how to deal with the fact that we have far too much segregation, to begin with. In what way are we going to fix the root of evil, namely the increasing division between different schools? Yes, here the political differences are much, much greater. For my part, it is absolutely self-evident that we should also counteract what creates an increasing segregation between students and between schools. Kristina Axén Olin says that the research claims that the school election, as it is built up, has a very small part in creating segregation. I would like to say that the research is much more nuanced on this point than Kristina Axén Olin claims. The fact is that, in the 1990s, when we introduced the school election system that we have in Sweden today, the OECD, the independent organisation in Paris that examines economic issues, came with a totally devastating criticism of the structure of those reforms. That criticism was formulated in a report in 1992 which the then government unfortunately took no account of at all. I can recommend Kristina Axén Olin to read that report, which in an almost nasty way predicts the problems we have now seen coming in the segregated Swedish school. I think it is a responsible policy to deal with the effects of the increasing segregation, but it is a less responsible policy to ignore the causes of the increasing segregation in the Swedish school. That is where we need to address the issues of school governance. These are precisely the issues that the Prime Minister spoke about in the Government Declaration and precisely the measures that the Minister of Finance spoke about in the budget debate. We are going through the proposals that came from the School Commission and ensure that they are properly investigated. On one point, however, I would like to put a counter-question to Kristina Axén Olin : Where do I find Kristina Axén Olin that I have in some way advocated drawing in the Swedish school system? Show me where I've done it!
i-c5573987c968783c-373	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Education! It is very gratifying that we agree on the problems in Sweden and the concern with segregation. Of course, I share the Minister for Education's concern about how it looks. It's not just about school, it's about a lot of areas. We all have reason to be self-critical. We have failed with integration in Sweden. I also believe that we can agree that housing segregation is one of the biggest concerns. But then, as I said, our views differ quite a lot. We can talk about the OECD, as Minister Anna Ekström has chosen to do. As early as 2014, the OECD submitted an in-depth expert analysis to the then responsible minister, Björklund. It was noted that both quality and equivalence were threatened in the Swedish school system. Strong proposals for action were then made to Sweden to remedy the increased school segregation. As early as 2014, the OECD proposed compulsory school choices for reducing segregation, more career teachers and financial incentives for skilled teachers to want to work in exclusion areas. It is about strengthening teacher competence, rapprochement of Swedish school's governance and a stronger state responsibility for the quality of school. Mr President, I would like to I cannot see that during the previous term of office, 2014– 2018, a single proposal was made or any of what the OECD proposed. Many of the proposals are certainly included in the School Commission's report, and many of the School Commission's proposals are good. But none of this has become a reality. This year we set aside extra money, which has even been decided by the Riksdag, to increase wages in areas of exclusion – exactly what the OECD proposes. But even that the government cannot enforce even though the money exists and the Riksdag has decided on it. Instead, you choose to investigate more and more, and school segregation is increasing. When, Anna Ekström, are we going to see the sharp action that the OECD told us back in 2014 that we were going to take? When are they coming? Is that what the Prime Minister says – that the School Commission's proposal should be implemented? Is that what the Minister of Finance said in the budget debate last week – that we are now implementing the School Commission's proposal? Or is that what the Government says here – that the proposals are under investigation?
i-c5573987c968783c-378	Mr President, I would like to Anyone who wants to implement legislation in the field of schools must of course investigate the matters before going to Parliament with legislation. Another system leads, I believe, to a less thought-out school policy except that it would render severe criticism from the Parliament's chamber. I'm a little worried about the frivolous view of producing well-thought-out proposals. I can assure Kristina Axén Olin that the proposals made by the School Commission rest very confidently on the OECD's recommendations to Sweden, and they are now being implemented on a point-by-point basis. There is a proposal from the School Commission that we in the government have clearly said that we will not proceed with, and that is precisely the proposal for drawing lots. I am still calling for an answer to my question to Kristina Axén Olin. As Kristina Axén Olin said in a previous speech that I had opened up for drawing, I would like to know in what context I should have done so. It is because we in the government have clearly said that we will not proceed with the School Commission's proposal on drawing. The reason is very simple: There is no support for this measure in the Swedish Parliament. As far as the other OECD proposals are concerned, a number of them have been implemented. For example, I can point to the unique equivalence contribution, which now amounts to 3 1⁄2 billion and which, according to the January agreement, is to be extended. It is a necessary and important piece of the puzzle to deal with the effects of the lack of integration in the Swedish school. I can also say that the rules on selection for the Swedish school are important. These are the rules that the OECD often points to. These are the rules that Kristina Axén Olin refers to when she talks about lottery tickets and the School Commission's proposal. What do we do when there are more students who want to go to an independent school or a municipal school than there is room for? Yes, today the rule of law is such that a municipal school should comply with the principle of proximity. This is something that, according to several new judgments, is at risk of severely disadvantageing parents who want their children to go to the same school. It makes it difficult for the so-called sibling priority. But it is also a question of an independent school being able today to apply a principle of queues that is terribly unfair. It benefits children born in January more than children born in December. It benefits children whose parents are watching. And it benefits children whose parents never ever move, either within Sweden or from abroad. To achieve a fairer admission system requires, of course, a thorough investigation. The school commission asked the government to set up such an investigation. We've done that. It is an investigation for primary school and an investigation that reviews the entire funding system for upper secondary school. I will, of course, await the results of those investigations. I want this to go fast, but I also want it to be really well done. It is about systems that are important to millions of parents and students and that must not go wrong. Kristina Axén Olin also talks about the segregation of residents. I fully agree with Kristina Axén Olin that it is a real villain in the drama when it comes to the lack of integration in the Swedish school. The segregation of accommodation is very serious. It must be fought. An important contribution in this struggle will of course be the clear statement of the January agreement that we will ensure that what is called EBO cannot be as dominant in the Swedish housing debate as it has been so far. It will be of great importance to the school. But for that reason, we cannot fail to adopt the rules of the school law that unfortunately reinforce segregation in the Swedish school.
i-c5573987c968783c-385	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its clarifications. Hopefully we can put ideas on drawing and busing students to schools as a solution to school segregation to the side and instead discuss other good suggestions to increase the active school selection. In fact, in order to increase the active school elections, as the OECD has also proposed, no legislative or regulatory changes are needed. It's just that together we're trying to make sure that information about the free choice of school reaches out to all groups and in many languages. We could actually do that today. The money that we Moderates and Christian Democrats set aside in this year's budget to increase the salary of teachers in exclusion areas can already be implemented today, because the money already exists and is paid to the National Board of Education, which is just waiting for the government to make an appointment so that they can execute it. So there is much we can do today. Not everything needs to be investigated. Many of the proposals that the OECD has highlighted and that we Moderates have put forward could be implemented today, because they are not about legislative changes but about much simpler things that can be done. I can only look forward to it being as the Government says, that they will be implemented and that they will come back with proposals so that we can try to get Swedish school back in order and make sure that Swedish school becomes the opportunity for all children that a school should of course be.
i-c5573987c968783c-388	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has had one of the most high-performance and equal school systems in the world, and my goal as Minister of Education is for us to get back there. Against this background, I would very much like to welcome the fact that the OECD is looking at Swedish schools in the clear way they do. The OECD's message to Sweden is that we must take what was wrong in the 1990s. The OECD speaks clearly in its latest report – the big report on economic development in Sweden. There, the OECD clearly states that the market governance that the Swedish school is exposed to leads to is wrong. It is based on shaky foundations, and Sweden is encouraged to change the regulations for the school elections and for everything that belongs to the school elections. In my opinion, we can do this while maintaining an opportunity for parents and students to choose which school they want to go to. This can be done by other countries, and we should be able to do the same. The very unregulated school market that we have since the 1990s is an important reason – not the only one, but an important reason – for the increasing segregation in the Swedish school. My call to Kristina Axén Olin is to listen to the OECD and take what they say seriously. It is not a fierce rabulist think tank on the left that speaks, but it is the OECD in Paris that is urging us in Sweden to ensure that the Swedish school system is reformed so that it can contribute to a better equivalence. I will do what I can to ensure that this is the case, and I hope to receive support from the Swedish Parliament on this issue.
