i-797c955f64d736d4-9	Madam President, I would like Louise Meijer has asked me what initiatives I am prepared to take in view of what she is saying about the rules on expulsion for crimes and on residence permits for work. I recall answering the same question from Louise Meijer on 19 June 2019. As I said at the time, the rules on expulsion due to crime have not undergone any major changes since 1994. Since then, crime has changed and has partly taken on new forms, including a growing gang crime. The government has taken various measures to deal with the situation, including in the field of criminal law, which provides increased conditions for prosecutors to demand expulsion. However, further steps need to be taken, and the Government therefore intends to set up an investigation to carry out a wide-ranging review of the law on the expulsion of persons on grounds of crime with a view to the expulsion of more convicted than is currently the case. For the government, it is also important that Sweden has a well-functioning competence supply. It is not reasonable for foreign workers to suffer unnecessarily if an employer has committed a minor or minor error. Nor is it proportionate for a serious employer to lose important skills in such cases. At the same time, it is important that the labour market is organised and that rules, agreements and industry practices are respected when taking in foreign workers. Circumstances of the terms and conditions of employment must be countered in all fields of employment. With the aim of reducing the number of so-called competence expulsions, a legislative change was made on 1 December 2017 that allows the Migration Agency to refrain from withdrawing a residence permit for work if the employer has self-managed shortcomings in the terms of employment. The Government has also closely followed developments following guidance from the Migration Court of Appeal in December 2017. Statistics by the Finnish Immigration Service for the first half of 2019 show that this is now moving in the right direction. In professions with higher education qualifications, the share granted for the extension of the work permit was 96 – 98 per cent. For engineers and IT architects, the proportion of granted extensions was 98 and 99 per cent respectively. In this context, I would also like to mention that an OECD report published in May 2019 ranks Sweden as the second best country for highly qualified labour migrants. One of the factors studied was precisely the framework for labour migration. However, the government is not satisfied with this. On the basis of the current rules on labour migration, an investigator shall be tasked with reviewing the regulations on labour migration, including with a view to ensuring that the problems of so-called competence expulsions are solved. The investigator will also propose, among other things, rules on residence permits for highly qualified persons who want to seek work or start a business.
i-797c955f64d736d4-14	Madam President, I would like To make this understandable to the huge audience sea we see here, I thought I'd draw some of the background to what we're talking about. Before the summer break of Parliament, I asked Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson about Sweden's expulsion policy. The background was that a man convicted of rape escaped expulsion because of his connection to Sweden, even though the man had no family here. And at the time of his arrest, he was also both homeless and unemployed. The man had lived here for more than eight years, and that was the key. This man had to stay in Sweden. At the same time, we know that people who have immigrated to work and who have lived here as long as the sentenced man is expelled because of minimal errors in, for example, holiday days. I think that is an unfair expulsion policy. Someone who has been convicted of such a serious crime as rape can therefore stay in Sweden, while someone who has reported the wrong number of holiday days is expelled. Such injustices undermine confidence in politics. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Justice and Migration states that further measures need to be taken regarding expulsions and that the Government therefore intends to set up an investigation. The fact that the investigation is to carry out a broad review of the legislation with a view to more convicted than is currently possible to be expelled is a good thing. Madam President, I would like With the announcement now made by the Minister for Justice and Migration, I must ask the following questions: Does the Minister of Justice and Migration mean that he is prepared to review the constituent elements of the Aliens Act and change the legislation so that it will be easier to expel criminals who commit serious crimes? And if so, when does the Minister intend to set up such an investigation?
i-797c955f64d736d4-20	Madam President, I would like With regard to the last part mentioned by Louise Meijer, i.e. the expulsion rules, I do not think there is a great difference in party politics. If you commit serious crimes in Sweden and are not Swedish citizens, it is in my opinion expulsion that applies. That is the starting point. Then we can discuss the connection to be made and the rules on this. Yet that is my starting point and my attitude. I believe, as I said, that there is no difference in party politics on this. Sometimes you get the impression that we almost do not carry out expulsions, or that they are at least impossible to do. Last year we carried out 649 expulsions. So it's almost two a day. It is therefore carried out continuously in Sweden 600 – 700 expulsions per year, and this has been the case in recent years and also during the alliance period. Now, as I said, we are in the final stages of the investigation directives that we have been working on for some time. The answer to Louise Meijer's question as to whether the rules of association should also be reviewed is yes; we intend to do so. This was brought up to date, among other things, by the case referred to by Louise Meijer. But I would also like to remind you that this is something on which we Social Democrats went to elections last year, that is, that we should look at these very parts. We will. In addition, we will address the issue of honour crimes. The January agreement between the Government, the Centre Party and the Liberals explicitly states that these rules should also be reviewed, so that expulsions should always be examined in cases of honour crimes. We will do the same. Then there are a number of other issues that we are working on in the directives. But the whole story will see Louise Meijer when the investigation's directive is completed. Louise Meijer also raises the issue of labour immigration. I just want to remind you that it's the Moderate rules we're working on now. It was the alliance government that created these rules for labour immigration, and we have not changed them in any other way than that we have actually made it a little easier for the Migration Board to be more flexible than the basic rules. It is a change of law that we implemented a few years ago. However, I think that anyone who comes to Sweden from the other side of the world and will work here also has a personal responsibility to comply with the rules that exist in Sweden. The same is true of employers in Sweden: If you bring someone from the other side of the world, you have a personal responsibility to ensure that the rules are complied with. How hard can it be to follow the rules? Obviously not very difficult. I said in my reply that the rate of granting extensions in the case of highly skilled workers is 97% for those with higher education skills. For IT architects, it is 99 per cent and for civil engineers 97 per cent. So it may not be so terribly difficult to follow the rules that exist. However, there are sectors where the granting rate is lower, and the restaurant sector is one. Nevertheless, we are quite high there, at between 88 and 90 % of the grant rate, but the level is lower than in the other sectors. The conclusion I draw is that in some sectors there are probably more problems with cheating and falsification, i.e. trying to round the rules. The Migration Board also examined these particular industries harder, to ensure that they actually comply with the rules, and then we get a lower rate of grant. However, that labour immigration rules are combined with strong demands that there should be order and order in the Swedish labour market, we will always keep on, and I actually thought that the Moderates did too.
i-D2Mar7Xja9Porphb4VhYcK	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson! The Minister says that anyone who works here in Sweden should follow the rules of the Swedish labour market. I would like to say that the immigrant here, either as an asylum seeker or as a relative, should comply with Swedish rules – and definitely not commit crimes. The Moderates want more convicted expelled from Sweden. With our proposal, the courts should take less account of people's connections to Sweden when assessing the issue of expulsion. This means clearly that the person who has committed a rape here and is not a Swedish citizen has forfeited his right to be here. According to Brå, almost 20 per cent of non-Swedish citizens who are registered in Sweden and who have been convicted of rape are expelled – barely 20 per cent! For aggravated assault, the figure is 3 percent. I think the question arises as to whether it is reasonable for a person convicted of rape to have the right to remain here in Sweden. Today, the expulsion of a person with a residence permit from Sweden requires exceptional reasons. The Moderates want to change this so that the main rule is that they are expelled in the event of serious crime and that special reasons, such as connection to Sweden or family, should not play as much role in expulsion decisions. Madam President, I would like At Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson it sounds like he agrees with the Moderates' view. That is, of course, welcome. Unfortunately, his partner party Environmental Party seems to be of a different opinion: Isabella Lövin, spokesperson for the Green Party, said just over a year ago that she sees no reason to change the rules of expulsion. Of course, every party is free to take whatever view it wants, but for Sweden, I think that it would feel better to avoid small parties having disproportionate influence over Sweden's expulsion policy. This also applies to migration policy. The Moderates and Social Democrats have previously solved difficult issues for Sweden together. It is a pity that the Social Democrats have now chosen a different path and allowed parties representing a very small proportion of the population to dictate the conditions for one of the most important issues of our time, namely migration and related expulsion policies. Madam President, I would like My question to the Social Democratic Minister for Justice and Migration is therefore whether the Social Democrats are prepared to take responsibility for getting a fair and reasonable expulsion policy in place, thereby ignoring the diametrically opposed view of the Green Party on this issue. How does Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson intend to deal with this?
i-797c955f64d736d4-36	Madam President, I would like Here we see what we do by reading out pre-written posts. Madam President, I have just answered the very question that Louise Meijer asked, that is, whether we are going to set up an investigation into this and review the rules of association. I answered yes to that question, and yet Louise Meijer now spoke for several minutes as if I had not answered it. But it's just like I just said, we're gonna do it. Small parties– yes, the Moderates ruled the Ministry of Justice for eight years and did not change these rules in any way. It's as usual; in opposition you like to talk, but once you control and do something there won't be much of it, so to speak. We Social Democrats went to elections to review these rules. We are now in the final stages of writing directives for an investigation that will look, among other things, at the issue of connection, but also at what I was dealing with, namely the problem of honour crimes. It is part of the January agreement with the Center and Liberals. There are several reasons to do this, but the problem can sometimes be bigger. It is not always just about the Swedish rules, but sometimes also about a problem with getting the countries from which these people come to receive their own citizens. It's not always easy, I'll tell you. In Moderates' time, it was very difficult to expel people to Afghanistan and to Morocco – two countries we have actually had a lot of citizens from who have committed serious crimes. In the years that this government has been sitting, we have ensured that we now have an agreement with Afghanistan that will enable us to carry out such expulsions. Just the other day, we expelled three convicted criminals to Afghanistan, and with Morocco, we now have much better cooperation than we had just a few years ago. It is much easier for them to admit their own citizens, so to speak, when we meet them here in Sweden and they are here on illegal grounds or commit crimes. So it is also a question of working with each country separately, so to speak, to ensure that this can be done more effectively. However, the answer to Louise Meijer's question is that we will set up this investigation. We are in the final stages of drafting the directives, and I look forward to working with the Moderates on implementing legislative changes once we get there.
i-797c955f64d736d4-41	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Minister is upset – my question mainly concerned the cooperation party and how the relationship with this should be handled, not the appointment of the investigation itself. But perhaps that is the problem with the complete views of the Social Democrats, what do I know? Madam President, I would like The Moderates are Sweden's leading opposition party. If the Moderates had been able to rule Sweden for the last five years, the country would have moved in a completely different direction. Instead, we are seeing escalating gang crime, killings, insecurity and a public economy on its knees. We see how the government, when Sweden is heading straight into a recession, prioritises free years and family week. Instead of tightening the belt and equipping Sweden for a period of economic instability, the government wears the money pants. It is irresponsible, and it is bad for the country and for all of us who live here. Sweden needs a new, responsible government – a moderate-led government – and that as soon as possible.
i-797c955f64d736d4-44	Madam President, I would like Now I think Louise Meijer deviated a little from the subject. This is not a square meeting but an interpellation debate. Here we are discussing what the interpellation is about, and it is about the rules of expulsion. I have told Louise Meijer that we are in the final stages of developing an investigation to review, among other things, the rules of association and also the issue of honour. I am not upset but possibly confused that Louise Meijer did not actually listen to what I said in my previous speech about that being the case. I also said in the interpellation response that we will set up this investigation. As far as the police and security issues are concerned, I can say that I am still quite proud to have almost tripled the number of people training to be a police officer over these five years. We have started two new police training courses, in Borås and Malmö. We now see for every six months that more and more are coming out as police officers in the regions. We have tightened the penalties for some thirty crimes, and we have set up cameras to an extent that has hardly been seen before. I am quite proud of this, but I also see, of course, that there is a great need both to continue to tighten the penalties in some respects and to increase the police presence as well as to ensure that we strengthen our cooperation with certain countries in order to expel those people who do not have Swedish citizenship and who we condemn for crimes that have been committed here. For example, we have quite a few people in Sweden who are associated with the international theft leagues – from Poland, Romania and Lithuania. In addition to expulsions, it is also important to ensure that they can serve their sentences in their own countries. We need our prison seats for our own criminals. Thank you for this debate. I think we agree fundamentally on what needs to be done on the expulsion side.
i-797c955f64d736d4-51	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure law and order so that shoplifting ends or decreases in Sweden. The government takes a serious view of crime affecting shops and shopkeepers, whether it is theft, threats and violence or other crimes. Crime can be devastating for the companies and individuals affected, and it is of course particularly serious if it is a systematic action. The government has taken a number of measures in this area. We are strengthening police work so that more police officers can fight crime and increase security. The government set itself the objective of increasing the number of police officers by 10,000 by 2024. It is important that people who commit crimes are confronted with a rapid and clear response from the judiciary. Since January 2018, there has been a trial in northern Stockholm with a rapid procedure in criminal matters. According to an interim evaluation by the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, about a quarter of the crime suspicions dealt with in the experiment have concerned theft from the shop. The evaluation shows positive results, with shorter processing times and a higher proportion of prosecutions. The government has therefore decided to prepare for a geographical extension of the experiment from 2020. The Government also decided in February 2019 on a special experiment for young offenders under the age of 18. Legislative measures have also been taken. A new Camera Protection Act entered into force on 1 August 2018, where the general authorisation requirement previously applied to camera surveillance has been abolished. The new law means that camera surveillance in stores, for example, can now be carried out without permission. In addition, several penalties have been imposed in respect of property offences and crimes against persons. The minimum penalty for, among other things, gross illegal threats and aggravated robbery was raised in 2017. At the same time, the scale of penalties for serious damage was tightened. It is important that the person who commits several crimes receives a penalty proportionate to the seriousness of crime. Crime should never pay off. During the last parliamentary term, the government carried out a reform that treats more acts as relapsing into crime and thus meets with a reinforced criminal justice response. In addition, last year I commissioned an investigator to consider a number of issues relating to arrest and access bans. The investigator has now, in accordance with his mandate, proposed, among other things, a new criminal investigation aimed at systematic thefts and a new law prohibiting access to shops, swimming facilities and libraries. The investigator's memorandum has been consulted and is now being prepared within the Government Office. To overcome the problems, we must fight both the crimes and the causes of the crimes. The government has therefore invested in crime prevention and developed the first national crime prevention programme in 20 years, with common objectives in all policy areas. State authorities, municipalities, civil society and business must all contribute to crime prevention.
i-797c955f64d736d4-61	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In Gothenburg, where I come from, I have in the past year met several store owners and shop employees who describe an experience of almost lawlessness when it comes to shoplifting. One might think that thefts and shoplifting in stores are negligible in relation to gang shootings and explosions. But even small crimes — if carried out in large numbers and over a long period of time — eventually become a social problem. Traders, often family entrepreneurs, describe it as an lawlessness because they feel that the judiciary has been forced to withdraw its positions – not out of unwillingness but because of a lack of resources. Store owners and shopkeepers therefore end up involuntarily at the forefront of the fight against crime, in order to protect the property of the store and, by extension, their livelihoods. The picture of what these problems look like differs slightly depending on where the shops are located and what they sell, but everyone bears witness to a daily life of theft. There is often a systematic approach to these crimes in terms of both the perpetrators and the way in which the goods are then put into circulation in the next stage. Madam President, I would like The picture is also confirmed by statistics. The Swedish Commerce Federation presents a quarterly safety barometer describing how their members experience security and vulnerability to crime. The latest one came on June 24 of this year, and the figures are frightening. Of the defendants, 34 percent had been the victim of theft or shoplifting in the past week, but only 30 percent had reported this. Furthermore, 5 percent had been subjected to threats or violence in the last month in connection with theft, but only 48 percent of them had reported. In addition, 20 percent stated that during the last month they had been exposed to threatening behaviour without actually having been a case of theft, and 17 percent had been subject to fraud during the same period. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the Minister says that these problems are being taken seriously and that some measures have also been taken, including in the area of camera surveillance and criminal sanctions for robberies. But if you look at the responses from traders themselves, the situation is serious, and more action is needed. Basically, it is a question of confidence in the rule of law. It must be restored, and this can be seen in the frequency of registration. That is why my question to the Government, Madam President, is how one views the measures concerning, in particular, access bans that have now been investigated and when they could come into force.
i-797c955f64d736d4-71	Madam President, I would like I met a number of Ica dealers some time ago. Within Ica there is a network of traders who discuss security issues, among other things. That was very interesting; I would say that we have a good dialogue with the trade and with the industry on this. I get about the same picture that David Josefsson has when it comes to some places. I can say straight away that we cannot accept that there are criminals who see the neighborhood store as their own local pantry where they can only go in as they please and get food or other. The ICA dealers testified that there are examples of such things, and that is, of course, totally unacceptable. In my reply, I set out the measures we have taken. This is, of course, the major expansion of the judiciary as a whole that we are in the midst of. It is about increased police presence – we have set the target of 10,000 more employees by 2024. Last summer, I noticed that the Police Authority gained more than 31 000 employees, which is the highest figure ever. The police have never had more employees than they have right now. For every six months that go by, more police officers also come out of the almost tripled police training hills that we now have. This means that every six months we are going to get fresh dilution of the police coming out. They will be able to engage, among other things, in this type of crime. With regard to camera surveillance, as of August 1st last year, it no longer requires a permit to set up cameras in stores. This represents a significant change. Cameras act as a deterrent, and they also mean that these crimes can be cleared up afterwards. You can connect individuals and possible theft leagues to each other when you see the pictures from different stores, which is an incredibly important instrument for the police. Nowadays, as a result of a reform we carried out in 2016, we have also ensured that more acts can be judged as relapsing into crime. This means that criminals are at risk of a more severe penalty than in the past. Then there is the trial of faster prosecution in northern Stockholm. It has fallen out very well. Police officers can already in place, at the time of arrest in a store, virtually complete the investigation and even – at its best – provide a time in court. The processing times for these cases have gone down: Cases that could previously take 22 weeks are now down to 2 - 6 weeks, and cases that previously took a month are now down to five days. It is important to get a rapid response from the judiciary when committing these crimes. This also reduces the risk of these individuals being able to commit new crimes before they are convicted of the old crimes. They will increasingly be convicted of more crimes. Under the present system, the crimes committed, for example during these 22 weeks, are often baked into the first crime. That risk is now being reduced, quite simply, and making it more effective. The Prime Minister said in his government statement the other day that this is now going to spread geographically. We have it in northern Stockholm, and the results are so good that we want to be able to spread it all over the country. We are also extending it to youth cases, where the aim is to halve processing times. Rapid response is an important signal to those who commit these crimes. However, as I said, we are also working on further legislative proposals to tighten up our view of this type of crime.
i-797c955f64d736d4-81	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. As I said, I think we agree on the size of the problems. But the first consequence is that traders have to spend a great deal of time and resources on preventing crime themselves, which in turn increases consumer prices. In the long run, it can also result in both reduced opening hours and a choice not to market certain goods because one simply loses too much in theft. The absolute greatest consequence is that companies choose to move from areas that are too vulnerable to crime. It's a big problem. I certainly think that there are many good measures that the government has taken. At the same time, statistics and, for example, Svensk Handels' own security report show that shop thefts still remain at a high level. Of course, it is good to have taken certain steps, but what is the next step? The traders say: Well, it's good that you have a trial in northern Stockholm and that you facilitate camera surveillance, but it takes something more to actually regain confidence in the justice system. I will return to the question: when does the Minister think that a proposal for a ban on access, for example, could come? When will the government land on this issue? And when can you go from experimentation to broader trials with faster court proceedings so that you can work with this all over the country? That it happens in northern Stockholm is good, but it does not help the traders that I talk to in Gothenburg so much.
i-797c955f64d736d4-86	Madam President, I would like The statistics on reported crime, such as burglary or shoplifting, show a decrease in the number of reports. There is a trend over the past ten years that burglary in stores has halved, but also the other theft crimes are decreasing. Then one can object, as I know some do, that a smaller percentage is reported now than before. In fact, however, the reduction also applies to store robbery, which is much higher but where the propensity for registration is greater. Also, when it comes to shop robberies, you see a halve in the last ten years. You shouldn't say that everything is going the wrong way. There are also things going in the right direction, I would like to point out. That being said, this is not a problem. That is a problem, and then we must continue to develop the measures we are taking to remedy it. The investigation that is now on the government table – the consultation period expired on 7 June – makes a number of proposals. One proposal is to review criminal law in the area of theft and hoarding. There is now a proposal for what the investigation calls gross systematic theft and grossly systematic heeling. It is about taking care of cases where you systematically, repeatedly and organised commit a great many thefts or engage in fences, that you simply buy stolen goods. According to the investigation's proposal, this would result in a penalty scale of up to six years in prison. As I said, the referral period ended in June, and we are now working on this. When we are finished, we will return to Parliament. But I know very well what the attitude is from the Moderates on this issue and look forward to being able to cooperate on this when we are done with the preparation. The second part concerns access bans, which are also mentioned. This is also part of the investigation, and it was investigated once during the alliance years. You Moderates assigned an investigation to look at this, but you didn't run the investigation. You did not give the commission to the investigation to issue an entry ban, so the result was that the investigation came back to the government in 2013 without any such proposal. We did not make that mistake again, but we commissioned an investigator to actually come up with a proposal for a ban on access to shops and also to bathing facilities and libraries, which, of course, has also been a discussion about being able to do. So there is now a concrete proposal of this kind on the table of the government. When we are finished preparing this, I look forward to being able to go to Parliament with a proposal. Then we'll get back to you in that part. But this is one of the top priorities for us.
i-797c955f64d736d4-93	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is positive that the Government shares my view of the situation. The statistics are interesting. According to the Swedish Commerce Safety Barometer, the reporting rate is very low; perhaps 30 per cent or half of all crimes are reported. The government says the robberies have been reduced. When you talk to traders, they say that it is really about technological development, that they have gone from a cash-based trading to credit cards and other types of payment solutions. But they also say that when the police have had to back off because they have been given reprioritization, traders have instead had to invest in alarms, safes, camera surveillance and so on. So the robberies have disappeared because of the traders. I think it is positive that the Government shares my view and that there are proposals on the way forward. However, I think that those who are vulnerable, especially those who work in the grocery trade, would prefer to see even more proactive and sharp work done, because, although measures have been taken, the problems have continued and are at a very high level in the statistics. I would like to take the answers with me and thank you for a good debate.
i-797c955f64d736d4-97	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for a good debate. As I said, there are now a number of concrete proposals on the table of the government. The referral period expired this summer, and we need a time to process the referrals. One often sees when the consultation bodies come in with their opinions that there are things that perhaps not the investigator and we had thought about, and in order to get workable legislation it must be well prepared. I look forward to continuing the dialogue with the trade of course, which is important, but also here in Parliament so that there will eventually be good reinforcements to the tools of the police and other judiciary to get to this kind of crime.
i-797c955f64d736d4-100	Madam President, I would like Tony Haddou has asked me what measures I am prepared to take against the negative effects of the proposal to reduce the requirement of share capital for private limited companies to SEK 25 000 onor, what measures I am prepared to take against financial irregularities and whether it is my overall assessment that the effects of the reform will make it easier to conduct financial crime in the form of public limited liability companies. The Government pursues an active business policy with the goal of strengthening Swedish competitiveness and creating the conditions for more jobs in more and growing companies. The reduction in the requirement for share capital in private limited liability companies is one of the measures contained in the substantive agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, the so-called January agreement. In the legislative referral that the Government decided last week, the Government describes the positive effects that the reduction in the requirement for share capital may have. The proposal makes the form of public limited liability companies more accessible to those who run or want to start a business. It makes it particularly easier for companies in the service sector where the need for capital is often lower than in other sectors. During the consultation, some consultation bodies have expressed the same views as Tony Haddou in his interpellation. The government takes the issue of financial crime very seriously and has also taken a number of measures to combat such crime. Among other things, the Swedish Companies Registration Office has had a government mandate to report how the agency works to prevent financial crime and to propose measures against money laundering, terrorist financing and other financial crime. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Companies Registration Office in dialogue with the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Economic Crime Authority to develop methods to make it more difficult to use companies to commit crimes. In addition, the authorities are working together in an effort to combat organised crime, including economic crime and crimes against welfare systems. In order to combat welfare crimes and tax evasion, the Government also intends to increase the funds allocated to four authorities, including the Swedish Economic Crime Authority. The Government's proposal means that a minimum of SEK 25 000 in share capital is retained. This means that there will still be a barrier to completely ill-considered company formations and a certain obstacle to the use of public limited liability companies for unprotected purposes. In the legislative referral, the Government considers that the reduction is likely to have only negligible effects on the use of public limited liability companies in financial crime. For someone who is considering starting a limited liability company for a purely rogue purpose, without the intention of running any long-term sustainable business, the difference between SEK 50 000 and SEK 25 000 is unlikely to be decisive. Heavy consultation bodies such as the Swedish Crime Prevention Council and the Swedish Tax Agency are in the same line. Nevertheless, we cannot sit back in the fight against organised crime. I will monitor developments closely and, if there are reasons for it, come back with proposals for further measures to combat the use of public limited liability companies to commit crimes. Even with regard to the protection of the company's creditors, the difference between SEK 50 000 and SEK 25 000 in the vast majority of cases is small. A share capital of SEK 50 000 is also not a very strong protection, and even today many creditors require security in the form of a pledge or a bond. It is true that the rules on forced liquidation can be updated more quickly than today. However, it must be borne in mind that capital shortages can arise rapidly with the capital requirement currently in force. A reduction of SEK 25 000 is not particularly drastic in this respect. Having said that, the Government considers that there may be reason to consider whether there is a need to review the rules on compulsory liquidation. In that case, it can be done in a different context.
i-797c955f64d736d4-113	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. It is good that the Minister has reviewed the views of the consultative bodies, and there are those who are critical of the proposal for a halved share capital. Many of these comments were also made under the Government of Reinfeldt in connection with the previous reduction. Now this government is continuing along the same lines by once again reducing the requirement for share capital. That is, of course, less good, and it is even worse to proceed with this despite the criticism that has come to light. There are several objectives to the requirement of share capital, as the Minister mentions. In particular, it constitutes an obstacle to the exploitation of the form of public limited liability company for misleading purposes or to obtaining tax advantages. After all, the proposed reduction in minimum amounts for public limited liability companies becomes a component that eventually undermines this barrier. Reducing the requirement even further risks creating an increase in organised welfare and other economic crime, which is often carried out within the framework of a limited liability company. The very essence of this form of crime is to mislead, and therefore a credible platform is needed. One of these is precisely companies, where the major contributions from welfare systems are often paid out. The Economic Crime Authority, one of the referral bodies, points out, among other things, that organised crime has become more common in the use of public limited liability companies as a crime tool and that the form of the company is becoming more common in complex criminal schemes. In addition, as there is no personal responsibility and audit obligation for the smallest companies, fronts and goaltenders can be used without any transparency from other actors. Reducing the capital requirement thus makes it easier for criminal interests to use companies as a crime tool. In a large proportion of the criminal reports received by the Swedish Economic Crimes Authority, the form of a limited company exists. The same authority warned against the development last time the requirement was lowered, and now the threshold for intervention capital is even lower. The Minister says in his reply that if there are reasons for this, he will come back with proposals for measures to combat the use of public limited liability companies to commit crimes. But with this proposal he risks lowering the thresholds for using public limited liability companies as a crime tool. Isn't that a bit contradictory and even naive?
i-797c955f64d736d4-120	Madam President, I would like In that case, it is not only we who are naive, but also the Swedish Crime Prevention Council and the Swedish Tax Agency, which makes about the same assessment as the government. It is clear that one can ask oneself – and it is, of course, ultimately a question of assessment – how effective this is as a business policy. I guess it'll just have to turn out. But it is de facto the case that, when the threshold is lowered, more people will be able to form companies, which may be particularly important for service companies. We may well have an effect in this regard, but, as I said, future evaluations will show. It is true, as Tony Haddou says, that there are plenty of examples where companies are used as crime tools. I do not believe, however, that it can be shown that the previous reduction down to SEK 50 000 in itself has increased this trend, but other factors have made this a way of carrying out criminal activities. This is not least about the privatisation of the public sector with a wide range of public services involving assistance companies and other criminal activities. But as I said, it is another factor. We will continue to follow this closely. There is a large level of cooperation between authorities against organised crime, in which the Economic Crime Authority is a part. In the budget we are presenting for the following year, we will strengthen the EFC's funding by SEK 19 million and then by SEK 35 million for the next two years. These are the resources that the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency needs to strengthen its fight. I doubt that the proposal would have any major impact on the development of crime. Also 25 000 SEK is a threshold. It would have been much worse if we had gone into the proposal that was debated a few years ago about so-called'single-krona companies', which was an idea from the European Commission. I was strongly against that then and will always be strongly against it. Then we could create systems in which companies can be formed after companies that can own each other. It would cause a terrible mess for the one who is going to clear up any financial crimes that are being tried to hide in this way. However, as far as I am concerned, this proposal is dead and buried also at EU level. With regard to this part, however, I agree with the assessment of the Crime Prevention Council and the Tax Agency that from this point of view it will not have any major effects.
i-797c955f64d736d4-126	Madam President, I would like As the Minister says, it is an issue of assessment, and it will then become apparent. As long as it's a risk. We must put this in a broader context. Much has happened in this area, and the Minister gives some examples of this. We have previously reduced share capital requirements and abolished auditor requirements. In addition, tax planning is much more complex today, as the Swedish Tax Agency points out. LO also points out that this risks leading to increased tax planning, especially in conjunction with the large differences in taxation of labour income and capital income. All in all, this means that someone can run a limited liability company anonymously and without personal responsibility and transparency. All this reduced control that has been carried out over time, not least by the bourgeois parties, leads to more crime, and now the government is in the same vein when choosing to lower the share capital requirement. The reduction in the requirement for share capital and the abolition of audit obligations for small companies has made it easier to set up limited liability companies. The smaller the share capital you need to deposit at the start, the easier it will also be to run an unserious limited liability company. If the purpose is to use the company unseriously for example illicit credit business or as smaller shell companies, someone can now start two such when the share capital is halved and thus create a chain of shell companies. This risk exists when you choose to lower the requirement. This, of course, creates economic damage which affects both society, in the form of reduced tax revenues, as well as serious companies, in the form of reduced profitability and distorted competition. For the Left, it is important that the current welfare system is not further eroded but strengthened. What gets a little strange here is that the Minister on the one hand wants, for example, the Ecocrime Agency to get more money, which is good. Cooperation with the other authorities is also something that we support and think is good. But on the other hand, there is a risk of an increase. Is this what the Minister thinks is a question of assessment, a little of seeing what happens? Would it not be better simply to build on the cooperation that exists between the authorities and actually do something about the overall picture that I mentioned earlier? A simple proposal would be to look instead at how a new audit obligation can be designed for smaller limited liability companies. Of course, the equity capital requirement should not be reduced.
i-797c955f64d736d4-133	Madam President, I would like For the sake of order: when I said that it could be shown, this was about the impact of industrial policy, that is, how effective the proposal will actually be in order for more people to want to start businesses. This is the assessment to be followed, so to speak. When it comes to the risk of increased crime, one must probably distinguish between large and small. The 25 000 kroner is still there. It's a threshold. This means that it is not easy to start a company after a company, but you have to make sure that the money is available in order to do so. As far as the risk of tax planning is concerned, the expert authority we have with regard to tax is the Tax Agency, and they agree with the government's assessment that this particular measure will not add to or risk having any major impact on crime, but are quite different things they want to point out. So I do not think you should ride too high on that argument. To some extent, I think that the Left Party sometimes sifts mosquitoes and swallows camels. This issue, I believe, will not have any major effects. On 1 October, new legislation will come into force on the black trade in rental contracts, on which the criminal gangs are really making money. That will be hundreds of thousands of dollars for each such contract. What does the Left Party have against the tougher rules that now apply? If you are serious and you want credibility in chasing criminal circles out of the legal markets, then I think you should look at what is effective and important and stop in those parts too. I do not see much explosive power on this issue in this regard.
i-797c955f64d736d4-138	Madam President, I would like Now the question that the Minister chooses to end with is not really here. In fact, I think that the Minister can jump off his high horses. These are tough rules that will hit the poor and the homeless hard, so I think the Minister should review the bill. To take it back to the issue of share capital, as the Minister said, it is not entirely certain that it turns out that the total number of companies is increasing by, for example, lower share capital. What can happen is that you simply use forms other than the form of a limited liability company, such as an individual firm, a partnership and so on. I think that this calculation should be carried by the Minister when he looks at the impact of this policy on economic policy. What the Minister raised at the outset, in his reply, was the question of liquidation. The fact is that the government knows the risks here too but still chooses to continue with the proposal. With lower capital requirements, more people are at risk of starting a business without having the ability to run it, not least because of poor viability in the business. This, in turn, may have a number of consequences, such as the negligence of accounting offences or the failure to draw up accounts and annual accounts. With a share capital of only SEK 25 000, the balance sheet shall be drawn up when the equity is less than half. Already today's demand for share capital is too low, as the government itself mentions in the legislative referral. Both the government and a lot of consultation bodies see the risks, but yet the Minister chooses to go ahead with this. Unfortunately, this is what happens on a very large number of points when the Social Democrats choose power. The Center Party's wish list was included, and the blinders seem to be completely downgraded for the consequences.
i-797c955f64d736d4-143	Madam President, I would like As I said, we have had a broad consultation round in which the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Crime Prevention Council have looked at the issue. They believe that there is no major risk of what Tony Haddou fears happening. I share this assessment. In the second wave, the question is whether this is the way to make it easier for people to start businesses. It is possible that the reduction can have that effect. We simply have to follow developments. We're discussing how gang criminals can make money in different legal markets. That's why I drew the parallel. We are now making sure that the fight against this kind of crime is stepped up. It is not good advice for those who are in short supply of money or poor to get into the grip of organised crime by buying, for example, black rental contracts. It was therefore necessary to go forward with legislation. The policy we are pursuing in this area means, among other things, that we are strengthening the Ecocrime Authority and the law enforcement authorities' approach to this type of crime. There will now be increased resources for the Swedish Ecocrime Agency, but also more opportunities for criminal law to access the gangs. We will continue to do so. With regard to this part, I do not think there is any strong evidence of the effects that Tony Haddou fears.
i-BjGcB5zbg1Qaxp4GDEDGnN	I would like to welcome the Minister. The questions will be answered by Minister Mikael Damberg, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister Hans Dahlgren and Minister Matilda Ernkrans. An issue shall be of a general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-797c955f64d736d4-147	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister of Justice. Sweden has extensive problems with growing insecurity. Explosions and shootings seem to occur almost daily around ours in many other ways very beautiful and pleasant country. It is a long line of things that are needed to overcome insecurity. We need to work preventively, we need to strengthen social services and we need more police – the right police officers, who can also intervene when you see that criminal activities are being carried out. We need to provide the police with more new tools to prosecute crime, and we need to ensure that those who have the bad judgment to commit crime also receive penalties that are in parity with the seriousness of the crime. We also need to make sure that more people dare to come forward and witness to what they have experienced. Here, among others, the Prosecutor General has been clear. A majority in this House has also made it clear that the issue of anonymous witnesses should be investigated. When will the government listen to what the Riksdag has said and make sure to investigate precisely the question of anonymous witnesses?
i-797c955f64d736d4-151	Madam President, I would like Just as the questioner touches on, we have a problem with gang crime, which has stuck – I would say – for quite a long time in Sweden. The government has taken this very seriously from the day we took office five years ago. We have expanded the judiciary, and we continue to do so. There are three times as many police officers now as when the Moderates ruled. We have started police training in new locations: Malmö and Borås. We have tightened up some thirty penalties, and we have now also ensured that law enforcement has been streamlined in such a way that more of the most criminal individuals can be caged. We will continue to do this, and I am happy to do so in broad cooperation. That is precisely why we are negotiating with you and discussing a large number of new measures to combat this type of crime. We met as late as yesterday and went through a number of concrete proposals. We will continue to do this, and we on our part take this extremely seriously and go through proposals for proposals.
i-797c955f64d736d4-154	Madam President, I would like I would say that the problem right now is that we are not negotiating. The negotiations have not yet started, even though we have seen each other on two occasions. I note that Morgan Johansson said to the Swedish Radio last spring that the question of anonymous witnesses, which the Riksdag has therefore requested in an announcement, would be included in the witness investigation that the Government has announced in the past. The answer from Morgan Johansson now puzzles me. Has the government changed its mind? You said one thing then, but now there seems to be no clear time span for this. What's the big deal?
i-797c955f64d736d4-156	Madam President, I would like It is a bit surreal to hear that negotiations are not going on, when Johan Forssell well knows that we put no less than 18 proposals on the table yesterday. It was precisely our input values in such a negotiation. The Moderates also have 10 proposals that we are discussing. It is clear that, in the next few days and the coming week, we will continue with these negotiations. Then we will have to try to create a system and a result where as many of the proposals as possible are taken up.
i-797c955f64d736d4-158	Madam President, I would like The gang talks between the government and parts of the opposition have begun. The Swedish Democrats are not invited. The talks have so far produced no results and no new proposals on the table. The prosecutor general, police officers around the country and not least a parliamentary majority in this House have lifted the proposal for just anonymous witnesses in court against the criminal gangs. This exists throughout Europe in a way that guarantees legal certainty. When the single most aggravating circumstance of these gang killings is that no one dares testify, it is time for society to stand up for the citizens who want to testify. In the most difficult cases, we must be able to guarantee witnesses anonymity in order to guarantee their safety. I would like an answer to my question to the Minister of Justice, unlike what it sounded like in the answer to the previous question: Is the government intending to accept Parliament's announcement and include an investigation into anonymous witnesses in court in its work on enhanced witness protection? Will the government do this – is the answer yes or no?
i-797c955f64d736d4-161	Madam President, I would like The question of anonymous witnesses is on the table, like so many other proposals that we are now negotiating in the context of the talks we are holding. We've put 18 suggestions on the table. There are various types of punitive measures, social measures, drop-off programmes, measures against illegal weapons and explosives. There is a considerable increase in the penalty for legal abuse so that anyone who goes after a witness or a plaintiff knows that it can be followed by a tangible sanction. All the proposals are on the table, but I am not going to negotiate in the media or in this way. We do so in the forms that we have now created by inviting the parties with which we are discussing.
i-797c955f64d736d4-164	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are not invited to the negotiations. It is therefore necessary that we, as a driving opposition, which has pushed forward a proposal in this House for an announcement to the government, should know what is happening. The Swedish Parliament therefore supports the proposal to introduce – or at least to investigate – the possibility to testify anonymously and how this could happen in Sweden. This is happening in many other countries across Europe, where it is chosen to stand up for the vulnerable people who live in these areas and who want to testify against gang crime. But at this point, we're getting uncertainty from the government. Perhaps you'd rather protect the rights of criminals.
i-797c955f64d736d4-166	Madam President, I would like As I said, we are currently in talks on a wide range of proposals. I see that we will be able to agree on a number of further concrete measures to combat this type of crime. The question of anonymous witnesses is on the table as one that we are discussing between parties. That is just one of the proposals. As I said, there are many other things: defector programs, harsh penalties for those who attack Witnesses, and so on. We will continue the process in the coming days.
i-797c955f64d736d4-169	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hans Dahlgren. The National Board of Trade estimated last year that there are at least 7 000 Swedish SMEs trading with EU countries, including the UK. They are, of course, affected by what is happening around the Brexit situation. If Brexit goes according to plan and you get an agreement in place – what are the conditions for all the small companies in Sweden who work with export and import? I wonder how the government has ensured that there is support to be given so that these issues can be resolved.
i-797c955f64d736d4-171	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. It has been a rather long process since it became clear that Britain will withdraw from the European Union. They have taken a decision on this after their referendum, but the question is how it will happen. Surely the question is still when it will happen. There is a readiness of Swedish authorities, on behalf of the government of course, to ensure that all possible information can be provided to the companies that are most closely affected. There are a large number of small businesses which today may only deal with EU countries which, if the UK leaves the Union without an agreement, will have to do a lot of things that they have never done before: register, obtain permits for storage and so on. We hope, of course, that there will be a withdrawal with an agreement, and then there will be no major changes at all.
i-797c955f64d736d4-174	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that we have good preparedness if it is done with agreements but also if it is without agreements. It's still a little soaring around what's going to happen. In that part we cannot influence the outcome, but it is the other side we can influence. The Government stated that there is a readiness even in case there would be withdrawal without an agreement. Where do the companies that are in this situation turn, and what kind of support and help is there to get in the event of the accident?
i-797c955f64d736d4-176	Madam President, I would like The best advice I can give is to turn to the National Board of Trade, the Finnish Customs and the Swedish Tax Agency. Their respective websites contain clear instructions for all entrepreneurs on how to behave in this situation.
i-797c955f64d736d4-178	Madam President, I would like The programmes at our higher education institutions have now started. At the same time, some training programmes have been cancelled, including teacher training in some areas of deficiency. I would therefore like to ask Minister Ernkrans how she works to avoid cancellations. They're cancelled because maybe it's just one or two applicants. When we look at the statistics, we can quite clearly see that the large higher education institutions are able to reset and put together programmes so that you can adopt one or two that read in parallel with other tracks. But at the smaller universities, the courses are cancelled, even though there are qualified applicants who may not have applied elsewhere. You may have children at home and have difficulty commuting to another university or college.
i-797c955f64d736d4-181	Madam President, I would like In times of teacher shortage and with the fact that we still want to build a strong society by being a strong knowledge nation, the opportunity to train as a teacher is extremely important. This is also why the government has taken a proper approach to ensure that there are more teacher training places throughout our country through further expansion of teacher training places. We have also made sure that there are several entrances to the teaching profession so that more people can choose this profession, and we take a joint approach to see how we can continue to develop teacher training so that more people can take on this. These are extremely important parts of ensuring that more universities can feel that they can carry out the programmes.
i-797c955f64d736d4-184	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I can see that more training places with more specialisations can also lead to even more cancellations because there are too few applicants. It does not really answer my question how you can support the smaller universities so that they can have an education even with very few qualified applicants.
i-797c955f64d736d4-185	Madam President, I would like Getting more people to study teacher training is a responsibility that we share. My responsibility and that of the government is to ensure that there are teacher training places around our country. Our universities – universities and higher education institutions – are responsible for dimensioning the programmes based on students' demand and labour market needs. If I can, and I hope to be able to do so shortly, I am the first to give further support to our higher education institutions to actually give these courses in place.
i-797c955f64d736d4-188	Madam President, I would like My question is of a general political nature. We have a disaster situation in personal assistance. People with extensive disabilities do not receive the support they need to actually survive. The government's work in implementing the KD-M budget's announcement on breathing and probe feeding is too slow, and that is not enough. All the basic needs must be assistance-based in their entirety, and we Christian Democrats will work for that in the Committee on Social Affairs. However, there are more problems. The level of hourly compensation for assistance is determined by the state budget, and the list has been lower for several years than the collective wage increase. The effect will be less money for skills development and management, and both assistants and assistance beneficiaries will be affected. The profession's personal assistant is becoming less attractive, and we are facing a major skills supply problem.
i-797c955f64d736d4-193	Madam President, I would like It is an important issue that concerns people who are entitled to assistance but who do not actually get it today. I believe that there is broad political agreement in this House that it is not worthy of the system that we should have, for example, that children have not been given the right help with the feeding and breathing. It is not the intention of the legislation that we have had. When the government presented a proposal that would remedy this – it is also an important part of the January agreement that we have met with the Center Party and the Liberals – it turned out that the consultation bodies pointed out that this proposal might not have been sufficient in terms of probe feeding. We cannot do that, and then we will have to re-make the proposal so that it becomes clear and gives people the right to the assistance they are supposed to have. There is also much else to be done in this area. We're looking at parental responsibility, self-care, and an investigation into state authority. So there is a lot that needs to be done in this area in order for this part of the welfare system to be safe and work.
i-797c955f64d736d4-196	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer, even if it did not answer my question. If assistance payments per se continue to be eroded, we risk that serious assistance providers with collective agreements, wage developments and good conditions will be run bankrupt, which would be devastating. I therefore wonder whether the government is willing to increase assistance payments in line with wage developments and to promote a long-term sustainable financing model.
i-797c955f64d736d4-199	Madam President, I would like Our focus is to solve the acute problems that exist with this system so that the people who are entitled to help also get it. This is our main focus, but we will also review the system of both parental responsibility and self-care, which are important issues. We will also review the whole system of state responsibility. We believe that these are the priorities that even large parts of the disability movement see as important to address.
i-797c955f64d736d4-202	Madam President, I would like I have a question for EU Minister Hans Dahlgren about Sweden's actions in the EU for Hong Kong. I came home from Hong Kong only the other day. Much is brought from such a journey, but what you may have with you is that the people of Hong Kong you meet share values with us. They are looking for democracy, they believe in free speech and they want a judicial system that is independent. At the same time, the country is under increased pressure from dictatorship China and, as it were, an assault and brutality by the police against the nearly 2 million people demonstrating for freedom in the streets. I therefore wonder how the government intends to act within the framework of European cooperation to put pressure on China and to support our democratic allies in Hong Kong.
i-797c955f64d736d4-206	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Joar Forssell, for the question! It is, of course, an important and interesting question of how a country such as Sweden as a member of the European Union can influence the People's Republic of China. As you know, we in the EU have a China strategy from 2016. It is based on the common interests of the European Union. It is, of course, about our economic interests and our value interests. After all, our entire cooperation is based on respect for the principles of the rule of law, respect for human rights, respect for the freedom of demonstration and respect for the aspirations of our countries throughout the ages. We talk to the Chinese about this in a dialogue on human rights. It is, of course, a frank dialogue, and we do not always hear. There is, for example, the case of the Swedish citizen who is incarcerated in a completely indecent manner. The government will soon present its own China strategy, which will provide some answers to these questions.
i-797c955f64d736d4-210	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is a little bit so that the answer from the Government testifies to a certain naivety that has existed in Sweden towards China and that continues to exist. The government and government parties have in the past strongly pushed the EU to have a common line, even though we know that EU countries such as Greece and Hungary are blocking a European policy against China because they are in China's clutches economically. I would have liked to see a little more pressure from the government on this issue, that is, to dare to be clear against the dictatorship of China about what is happening in Hong Kong.
i-797c955f64d736d4-213	Madam President, I would like I believe that Joar Forssell will be a little less dissatisfied when he has read the China strategy that the government is preparing, which will shortly be sent to Parliament in the form of a letter. There is also a strong ambition to influence the whole of the Union in a way so that we can stand up with a clear voice for human rights and freedoms also in dialogue with China.
i-797c955f64d736d4-215	Madam President, I would like The other day, the British Parliament was dissolved for a five-week break and, with that, an uncontracted Brexit is drawing ever closer. That is why I have a question for Minister Hans Dahlgren. It is no news for anyone that Brexit is bad for the British, bad for the EU and, above all, negative for a small export-dependent country like Sweden. It is bad for 300 000 Swedes living in the UK, and it affects the 1.4 million Swedes who depend on the export industry in a negative way. At the same time, it is the British who must decide their own fate. Now that an uncontracted Brexit is moving closer, what was hardly conceivable a few years ago, the question becomes to the Government: How is the Swedish Government preparing for Brexit? In particular, how to prepare for the risk of an uncontracted Brexit?
i-Cbufhy3srJYrXBTjHeCUvM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mathias Tegnér, for the question! This is an issue that has been with us since the beginning of last year when the risk became apparent. I believe that the risk has increased since then. There is an imminent risk of a hard Brexit where the British crash out of the EU. There are three areas where we have given priority to the preparatory work. The first is the citizens. How will the Swedes who live, work or study in the UK be able to do so in a reasonably similar way in the future? It is of course most dependent on what the British themselves decide, but the Riksdag has passed legislation to continue to pay guarantee pension and parental allowance as well as some health insurance benefits. That part should be ready. The second is about the British in Sweden. They should also be able to live on here. They add a lot to our society at schools and universities and so on. The third is the money. We must get back from the British the money they have been involved in investing in Europe.
i-797c955f64d736d4-223	Madam President, I would like It is important – to use winged words – that Sweden's preparedness is good. It is, of course, difficult to know, but is it still possible to speculate on what unforeseen events are in the direction of danger if we end up in a situation with an uncontracted Brexit?
i-797c955f64d736d4-224	Madam President, I would like Unforeseen is what you can't see. I was informed the other day from Brussels that the most frequently asked questions among those calling the helpdesk that is there about what happens after a hard Brexit are the following: What happens to my dog and my cat? Can I take them home when I go home to Sweden on summer vacation? There may also be unforeseen events there!
i-797c955f64d736d4-227	Madam President, I would like Amazon is the world's largest tropical forest with an enormous wealth of animals and plants and is home to more than 34 million people. Incredibly many intense fires have raged in the Amazon this year. The fires can be linked to the deforestation of the Amazon, and there needs to be strong action to stop the devastation. I am pleased that Sweden has now sent emergency aid to Bolivia, but I would like to ask Mikael Damberg a general political question. What can Sweden do to contribute to a faster halt to rainforest deforestation through EU cooperation and as an individual country?
i-6dL2kHDKujTHFqCe4mETWB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for the question! This is a hugely important issue for Sweden. We are the driving force behind climate policy throughout the European Union. We want the EU to take a leading position internationally. If it turns out that we do not get a stop to the devastation and fires that are now going on in the Amazon, much is threatened by the world's oxygen supply. The CO2 issue will also have a completely different position after that. It is an important European issue, and the European Union is engaged in bilateral dialogues with Brazil, for example, where these issues are important. Trade agreements are being discussed between the countries, and this is an important issue to bring into the discussion. We also need to look at how the Swedish systems work at home. I know that Per Bolund has been involved in and discussed with the AP funds that they are following the investment regulations and closely following developments in these countries. Some of the money goes to investments in these countries, and they should follow the guidelines for the AP funds.
i-797c955f64d736d4-231	Madam President, I would like Many thanks for your answer! The Government mentions that the EU has been, and is, important in cooperation, not least in the area of trade policy. Here it is extremely important that Sweden really puts pressure so that the climate agreements from Paris are maintained as an absolute requirement of trade policy in the future.
i-797c955f64d736d4-233	Madam President, I would like I was responsible for trade policy in the past, so I do not have all the detailed knowledge of the current agreement that the EU is negotiating with Brazil. However, there are specific sections dealing with the issues of forestry sustainability in Brazil. It is an incredibly important part of the agreement that the EU has now negotiated with Brazil. I very much hope that Brazil will take the impression of the EU's position in this area.
i-797c955f64d736d4-235	Madam President, I would like Uppsala, Rissne, Rågsved, Piteå, Hässelby. The list of places where women have been subjected to violent sexual abuse this summer can be made long. The exposure to sexual crime has increased significantly during Morgan Johansson's time as Minister of Justice. For the third year in a row, the number of reported rapes increased to more than 20 rapes each day of the previous year. Six months ago, I asked the Minister of Justice of the House how he intended to stop development. Since then, the number of reported rapes has increased by 20 percent. Now I ask the Minister of Justice again: When will the women of Sweden feel safe to go home by themselves in the evening?
i-797c955f64d736d4-237	Madam President, I would like We regard men's violence against women in general and sexual abuse as a major social problem. What we did in the last parliamentary term – where we pushed forward the strictest sex crime legislation that Sweden has ever had, and probably one of the strictest in the world around us, with negligence crimes, with consent legislation, with stricter penalties for the gross rapes, with better support in the form of plaintiffs for those who are victims of crimes – has been extremely important. We were able to do what the Moderates were unable to do, namely to produce a consent law. The Moderates didn't. We now need to build on this. I will shortly put in place a further revision of the legislation to review, among other things, the minimum penalty for rape. This must, of course, go hand in hand with the fact that we are expanding police activities and that we are prioritising investigations throughout the judiciary. We are determined to do so.
i-797c955f64d736d4-239	Madam President, I would like During Morgan Johansson's time as Minister of Justice, the number of reported sexual offences has thus increased by 22 percent. At the same time, the number of convictions and criminal prosecutions remains at a standstill. The Crime Prevention Council looked at this in particular and showed in a review of the rapes in recent years that only 5 out of 100 reported rapes lead to conviction.
i-797c955f64d736d4-241	Madam President, I would like There are no shortcuts in this. It is a question of using the resources needed in the judicial system to investigate this. In the police sector alone, more than 350 additional investigators have now been allocated so that these crimes can be better investigated at the bottom. With the support we now have for plaintiffs at an early stage, there are also more who will complete the whole process. It will continue to be one of the most important issues for this government to strengthen the fight against men's violence against women.
i-797c955f64d736d4-245	Madam President, I would like It has once again been discovered that children are being taken away from Sweden against their will. So far this year we are dealing with 44 children, and then we do not know how big the number of darkness is. It is the National Support Telephone against Honorary Repression that has published this particular report, but the problem has been known for a long time. Already in 2009, it turned out that only 25 children had been abducted against their will in Skåne. Usually it is a matter of child marriage, and children are often subjected to both physical and sexual coercion. It's a recurring problem at school. I think it is terrible that this has been allowed to continue. The current government has had the power for a long time and the opportunity to stop this for years now.
i-797c955f64d736d4-249	Madam President, I would like This concerns the whole debate on honour crimes, and the criminal law in that part is on me. We are now preparing further legislation on this. One proposal is a special penalty. If you commit crimes with honorary motives, society should take a stricter look at those crimes than if you do not have honorary motives. We will be able to go to Parliament with such a bill. Our proposals also include the possibility of imposing an exit ban on persons. If there is a risk of taking their children out for marriage or genital mutilation, we want to introduce a new possibility of exit bans and also to seize passports in those situations. This is clear. We will be able to go to Parliament with that. These are just two examples. In addition, we will further investigate the issue of a special offence of honour. We are strengthening criminal law, but there is also, of course, a great deal about preventive work that needs to be done.
i-797c955f64d736d4-254	Madam President, I would like I feel that was not a sufficient answer to my question. One child who is taken away against his will is one child too many. One child who is subjected to sexual coercion and abuse is one child too many. These children are being robbed of their future, and it feels like the government simply doesn't care. You have had power long enough now to stop this, but there is no national plan for it.
i-797c955f64d736d4-256	Madam President, I would like After all, I have just presented the measures that we have implemented and the measures that we are about to implement. This is also an important point in the agreement between the government and the Center Party and the Liberals – to strengthen efforts against all kinds of honour repression. All children and young people have the right to choose their own future, regardless of the family in which they grow up. We will never give in there. We will continue to expand the measures needed to remedy this; I can assure Sara Seppälä.
i-797c955f64d736d4-258	Madam President, I would like Yesterday I read an excellent article, signed by the Police Federation, which requires the government to increase police law enforcement capabilities. The Police Association is calling for a greater long-term perspective in order to ensure that law enforcement capabilities are properly and permanently increased. The reason why I put this question to the Minister for Justice rather than to the Minister for Home Affairs is because I want to contribute to this long-term approach. We shall see the whole chain of justice in this work. We currently have a situation that is serious and urgent. We must quickly get action in place to curb gang violence; if there is no doubt. At the same time, however, we need to look at the long-term perspectives of this so that we do not have to do this over and over again. Breaking a criminal career at its very beginning is far easier and can happen at a fraction of the price – both in the form of money purely socio-economic and in the form of human suffering – that a lifetime crisis costs.
i-797c955f64d736d4-262	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. I think it is an important perspective. It is easy to concentrate solely on the law enforcement side and forget about prevention. We all know that if we are to succeed in this, it is about both parts. Those who commit many crimes, we simply have to put them away. But we must also make sure that we strangle the new recruits of the criminal gangs. Here I think it is a lot about strengthening the efforts of social services and schools – not least the activities of social services in caring for children who grow up in environments that are perhaps criminal in themselves, where the family is, so to speak, part of the problem. I therefore believe that in the discussions we are now having on this there must be much concrete action to strengthen social services and schools, not least in the vulnerable areas.
i-797c955f64d736d4-264	Madam President, I would like I cannot stress enough the fact that we need to keep momentum in the ongoing talks. Several have expressed this, and I and many others have said that we are prepared to clear our calendars in order to achieve this. That is a good thing, but it also requires a little concreteness in how to raise the debate to a greater long-term perspective. The Center Party has proposed that we set up a security preparation where the whole legal chain is in focus. I hope that more people will share our idea of a safe preparation or at least come up with their own idea of how this long-term approach will come about.
i-797c955f64d736d4-266	Madam President, I would like A safety preparation is one of the proposals that is now on the table, along with many others. I look forward to continuing these discussions over the coming week so that we can land in as broad, effective and good an agreement as possible. Then I think we will actually be able to start a development where we meet this and can turn the negative trends down again.
i-797c955f64d736d4-267	Madam President, I would like Mälardalens högskola is an important builder and growth engine that works closely with both the business community and the public sector, not only in Västerås and Eskilstuna, but throughout the Mälardal region. In order to strengthen the region's competitiveness and exploit the growth potential of the base industry, the university's ability to conduct high-quality education and research plays a crucial role, not least in terms of skills provision. We Social Democrats believe that Sweden needs a new technical university. Mälardalen University has the best conditions, not least because the university's research in the field of technology is absolutely world class.
i-797c955f64d736d4-270	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. As the honourable Member himself describes, it is no secret that we Social Democrats think we should build on a strong knowledge and research society. We see that we need to reinforce with a new technical university. We have also said that Mälardalen University could become one of those. But it is as I have already answered these questions: to set up new universities in our country requires that it be done in a broader context of preparation with several political parties and in a broader research policy context. I'll have to get back to that.
i-797c955f64d736d4-272	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Matilda Ernkrans! It is more than 20 years since Sweden last formed a technical university. It was Luleå University of Technology, and with the facts in hand, it is not possible to overestimate the importance that that decision had for the region and for the country. I cannot stress enough the importance of high-quality education and research in order to develop the important basic industry, which is in fact the foundation for financing our welfare.
i-797c955f64d736d4-274	Madam President, I would like I myself recently visited Luleå University of Technology and may well testify to the enormous power and growth potential it has given to the entire region. The fact that we have higher education and research throughout our country is extremely important for us to manage our skills supply, but also to attract companies, businesses and so on that can continue to develop a region and our country. I therefore look forward to continued good cooperation.
i-797c955f64d736d4-276	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Mikael Damberg. In Sweden, more than SEK 50 million per year is given to the Hunters' Association from the Swedish Wildlife Fund. The money goes to the general mission, which includes informing about our predators based on democratically made decisions and goals. At the same time, the League conducts its own predatory policy with the help of this money. This means sitting on double chairs, which is the conclusion drawn in public investigations from 1997, 2003, 2004 and 2007. In 2014, the Government Office's own internal investigation indicated that the assignment should be procured in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. My question is: when will this law also cover the general mission?
i-797c955f64d736d4-278	Madam President, I would like I will be honest and say that I have no idea the answer to that question because it is not my responsibility. However, I believe, regardless of the answer to the question, that when we build a system of game management in Sweden, it is important that we build trust, commitment and long-termism in relations with the groups that represent much of the game management that we in this House have decided on. But I cannot answer the question of procurement.
i-797c955f64d736d4-279	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. There are relatively few people who know about this issue, and that makes it very important for me to highlight it. This is very important for nature conservation in Sweden, so it is about very important money. At the same time, the state gives SEK 7 million to the Hunters' National Association, which has a pronounced zero vision for a species included in the EU's Species and Habitats Directive. I wonder how this is consistent with the pacification and red-listing of the wolf.
i-797c955f64d736d4-281	Madam President, I would like I will refrain from further comments and refer to the minister responsible.
i-797c955f64d736d4-282	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. Sweden is in a national crisis. For the first time, we risk a whole generation of young people growing up in a society where shootings and gang crime are a normal state. When you talk to older generations, this was a parenthesis, but today we look weeks and weeks in shootings, blasts and murders when a young person takes a gun in his hand and is prepared to fire it against another person to end his life. We have seen that it has even gone so far as to shoot down loved ones in the middle of the day — a mother carrying her baby. I myself come from these areas, and I see what crime is doing. My question to the government is: when will the youth discount be abolished for adult men and women between 18 and 20 years of age who commit crimes?
i-797c955f64d736d4-284	Madam President, I would like I think that the murder of the mother in Malmö sent shock waves through many of us, including myself, who thought that this was something we had not seen before – how to completely cold-bloodedly walk forward and shoot a mother in the head while carrying her child. I think we were all taken by this crude act. This was also the reason why we invited the other parties to see if there are any further steps that need to be taken now to curb and break the trend of violence. Here are many suggestions on the table; we have already talked about some of them today. One of them concerns the reduction of penalties for young people. But I would also like to say that, if we are to succeed in this, we must also strengthen preventive action – social services and schools – in the areas concerned. There must be a balance between the measures.
i-797c955f64d736d4-287	Madam President, I would like Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson himself has said that he has been prepared to present a bill for the abolition of a youth discount. But we know that there is also another party in the Government Office, the Green Party. Now they're trying to put this in an investigation. We don't have time for conversation. Social efforts are needed, but those young people who now shoot each other to death would have needed social action ten years ago. First we have to take them off the street, put them away, and then we can start talking about social work. When is the government going to remove the youth discount?
i-797c955f64d736d4-288	Madam President, I would like You have to do both at the same time. The first thing the Moderates did when you got the chance to control a little was to remove money earmarked for social work and school in vulnerable areas. That was the wrong way to go, I think. We must ensure that these resources are secured for the future. It is not that we are going to set up any new investigations into the reduction of penalties. There's already an investigation ready, ordered by me. We are working on it, and it is also on the table as we negotiate on it. We'll have to get back to you with the results.
i-797c955f64d736d4-291	Madam President, I would like During the current budgetary period, Sweden is the largest per capita contributor to an EU budget characterised by a lack of clear objectives, poor follow-up, large-scale waste, massive fraud and corruption. During the elections to the European Parliament, the candidates of the Social Democrats reiterated as a mantra that the Swedish fee should not increase. The Government of Magdalena Andersson has called the current proposal unreasonable, and the Prime Minister has repeatedly reiterated a similar position in the Parliament's EU Board. I would therefore like to ask Minister Hans Dahlgren whether his government plans to stand by its word to protect the Swedish public finances and to veto a proposal whereby Sweden will pay as much as SEK 54 billion, i.e. almost as much as the entire defence budget, per year in the EU fee.
i-797c955f64d736d4-294	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ludvig Aspling, for the question! I can indeed confirm that the Swedish Government is fully committed to continuing to work on the principles that we have put forward together with a majority in the Swedish Parliament: that we should keep the Swedish EU levy and the total volume of the EU budget, and that the money in the budget should go to modern purposes, such as climate-promoting, migration and security, and not to old-fashioned agricultural and structural policy, which is not needed to the same extent as before. It is tempting to discuss when to veto and not. I do not believe that it is here in the Swedish Parliament in front of the whole public that you should talk about exactly what negotiating strategy you should have. However, I can say that if there is a proposal that is fully in line with what the Commission has presented, the Prime Minister of Sweden will not accept it.
i-797c955f64d736d4-296	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. I would like to remind you of what took place last time this was negotiated. Denmark publicly threatened with veto during the negotiation of this long-term budget. Then they also received a separate discount of SEK 1.3 billion. In other words, it is clear that it pays to take a firm and firm negotiating position. What lesson does Hans Dahlgren think that Sweden can draw from history in this particular case?
i-797c955f64d736d4-298	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that we should have a firm and firm position. I believe that those to whom we have spoken among our partners in the Union have understood this. We have a very firm and resolute position. We will have a difficult job ahead of us in negotiating with the other 26 on how this money should be distributed and how much revenue the Union should have. But we have some good like-minded people that we will work with; Denmark belongs to them. We'll think together about a good tactic.
i-797c955f64d736d4-300	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. I would like to highlight this with a free and independent press, which is, of course, a prerequisite for a living democracy. It also requires respect for copyright and joint responsibility for this for the players in the media. Common ground rules and a variety of players are important ingredients in this. As I see it, with the recently adopted EU copyright directive, opportunities can be increased to create a media situation based on the conditions that exist today, with digitalisation, fast and direct news communication, and which promotes exactly what I mentioned here. It strengthens trust and hopefully also counteracts fake news and perhaps also prevents threats and violations. The Minister of Justice has been particularly active on these issues in the past, not least in the dialogue between global players, which he has tried to promote. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Justice what initiatives have been taken to strengthen this work in Sweden.
i-797c955f64d736d4-303	Madam President, I would like The issue concerns copyright and how we are going to implement the directive that the EU has now adopted. As the questioner says, it is extremely important for cultural workers, musicians, writers and the media industry to have protection for their copyright, so that others do not go free-riding on their work. Now that the directive has been adopted, it means that it will be implemented in Swedish law. It has been rather controversial, as you know, not least with discussions here in Parliament, but now it has been adopted, and then all countries will live up to it. We will therefore in the coming years, during the time we implement this, have an expanded dialogue with the actors in Sweden in this area. We have invited over 100 actors to a large number of meetings to inform about how this will be implemented and how to ensure that it works well in the future.
i-797c955f64d736d4-305	Madam President, I would like What the Minister of Justice describes is an important entry point. It is important to create a broad consensus on this and a strong popular anchoring. There are many stakeholders in this context who point out that copyright is more threatened in a historical perspective than in a long time. Is that an opinion that the Minister of Justice can support? How do you view the work of popular anchoring in this?
i-797c955f64d736d4-306	Madam President, I would like It is clear that copyright is challenged by the new technology. It has become so much easier to spread other people's lyrics, other people's music and other people's films than in the past. At the same time, as an old journalist, I am well aware of how important it is that those who create something can also get paid for what they do. Therefore, we have a dialogue, including with Youtube, Facebook and other major players online to ensure that they can also live up to this.
i-797c955f64d736d4-308	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Matilda Ernkrans. One of the most important tasks of the state in the school system is to ensure that there are qualified teachers in our classrooms and that there are sufficient training. We have a great shortage of teachers; it is well known. UKÄ recently produced a report showing that 24 percent of those who started autumn 2016 have quit. Among the subject teachers, only 47 per cent are left at the end of the third semester. With such a large dropout, it will be difficult to reduce the teacher shortage out in the classrooms. One big reason for the defection is that those who come in have very low grades. This is because the number of seats has increased, so that the intake points have fallen. They therefore do not have sufficient prior knowledge to complete the studies. A reasonable conclusion of this should be to increase the admission requirements for teacher training. I wonder when we will see such a proposal from the government.
i-797c955f64d736d4-312	Madam President, I would like I can begin by saying that we need more good teachers out in our classrooms. The fact that we have a well-functioning teacher training is the basis for that. I can also say that we have been training too few teachers for too many years, not least during the years when Maria Stockhaus's party was in government. Since we received an S-led government, we have steadily increased the number of teacher training places at our universities and colleges. The picture that Maria Stockhaus is presenting here is not entirely true – that the reason why the students do not complete the teacher education would be that the students in the teacher education are not really good. They are, and teacher education is the biggest education we have. But, of course, more people need to pass teacher training, and that is why we have also started work on reforming teacher education. We will come back to the House on this.
i-797c955f64d736d4-315	Madam President, I would like In Sweden there is a growing shadow society where hidden people make a living from crime and undeclared work. In 2016, the then Minister of Home Affairs Ygeman made a noted move to expel 80 000 asylum seekers with a refusal decision in the coming years. Three years have passed now, and I would like to ask Minister Damberg how many of these 80 000 expulsions have been carried out.
i-797c955f64d736d4-316	Madam President, I would like I am answering the question because I am also a Minister of Migration and have the current figures ready for me. I'm following these numbers very closely. Over the last five years, more than 70 000 former asylum seekers have left Sweden, about a quarter under coercion and about three quarters voluntarily. In fact, we have had a rather high rate of return in recent years, and we will strengthen it now that we have new tools in place with special workplace inspections. If you suspect that there is illegal labour, i.e. people who do not have the right to be here but who are still working, the police have for a year been able to go in and do such checks. This is now being done on an increasing scale. It also means finding more and more people. Just the other day, by the way, it was a special aircraft with 50 people who were rejected back to Afghanistan. The deportations are working.
i-797c955f64d736d4-320	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hans Dahlgren. Work on the EU's long-term budget 2021 – 2027 is in full swing. The goal, based on the information I have received, is for it to be approved by the end of the year. I would therefore like to ask EU Minister Hans Dahlgren to tell us more about Sweden's priorities in the negotiations, not least in relation to the common agricultural policy and EU regional policy, but above all in relation to Sweden's position on the proposal to link compliance with the principles of the rule of law and money flows in the work on the next long-term budget.
i-797c955f64d736d4-322	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. I could talk a long time about the priorities of budgetary work, but I do not have time for that in this minute. But there are questions about jobs and growth that are high on the list, of course. It is about climate change, about security for Europe's citizens and about managing a common migration policy. The budget itself shall also be used for purposes that create European added value. We believe that the huge numbers we have spent so much money on in the past – agricultural policy, regional policy and structural funds – may have a little less. As regards the link between what you get from the EU budget and how you respect the principles of the rule of law, I can mention that there is now a proposal, a fine proposal from the Commission, for a regulation to be introduced which says that you should not receive as much money from the funds if you do not live up to the principles of the rule of law. We fully support this proposal, and I only heard the other day from the Finnish Presidency that they are well on the way to making a good proposal on this.
i-797c955f64d736d4-326	Madam President, I would like This is a matter of a general political nature. There are currently about 1.2 million companies in Sweden. Most of these, good 96 per cent, are small businesses with fewer than ten employees. If you talk to self-employed people, they almost always mention bureaucracy and regulatory problems as obstacles to further expansion. These are also issues that the government claims to prioritise. Paragraph 3 of the January Agreement already has the title Better conditions for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs. But in the government declaration last Tuesday, the Prime Minister only said that the demand for share capital is reduced when he mentioned regulatory simplifications for companies. Reducing the requirement for share capital is a good and welcome step, but my question is: What regulatory simplifications for existing companies does the government intend to implement in the autumn?
i-797c955f64d736d4-330	Madam President, I would like Part of the government statement was about this: about growing companies and that it actually creates a lot of jobs in Sweden. I know that my colleague in the government, the Minister for Enterprise, has decided that he will go on a simplification journey around Sweden and collect further ideas on rules and bureaucracy that can be removed to facilitate entrepreneurship. There are also other proposals in the January agreement that are of great importance, not least on tax reductions for companies hiring new arrivals or people who have been far from the labour market. This means a relief for those companies. So there is a wide range of reforms, which we have now agreed to move forward, making life easier for small and medium-sized enterprises.
i-797c955f64d736d4-332	Madam President, I would like Now it is clearer than ever for the whole of Sweden, but above all for the inhabitants of Malmö, that social democratic rule is not a guarantee of security but rather a guarantor of the possibility for criminals to thrive. Madam President, I would like A woman carrying her child has been executed in the city I was born and raised in and in which I live. Minister for the Interior Mikael Damberg visited Malmö after the execution. His message was: We need more technical equipment. At the same time, there are areas in Malmö where 65 percent are insecure. There is twice as much risk of being shot in Malmö as in Stockholm. To be honest, the people of Malmö are afraid. As a Malmöbo and moderate Member of Parliament, I must therefore ask: Is this the only answer of the Socialist Minister to the total breach of security that affects us Malmöers?
i-797c955f64d736d4-336	Madam President, I would like I was down in Malmö for the seventh time since I became Minister of the Interior. My message after this terrible act was that Malmö is not alone. If Malmö needs additional resources from the region and from the national level to investigate and address these crimes, they should have that support. The message I received from the police in Malmö was that they received that support, that they received extra support and help to work with this situation. I also visited the municipal board. I met with all parties in the Municipality Board in Malmö to discuss how we together in Sweden will get to grips with the problems of gang crime and violence. I was very appreciative of the commitment to working together. There has been a dramatic increase in the number of shootings in Stockholm. As Minister of the Interior, I would never dream of going to Stockholm and saying that it has to do with the political government in Stockholm. In the same way, I think that it should be abandoned when it comes to Malmö. Malmö is currently experiencing a trend in which the shootings are decreasing over time. It has nothing to do with political color. I think it has to do with cooperation between the municipalities, the police and the various authorities.
i-797c955f64d736d4-340	Madam President, I would like I'm a northern resident, as you can hear. In Norrbotten there is the space capital Kiruna, where IRF, Esrange and space campus form a space cluster. My question goes to the Minister for Space, Minister Matilda Ernkrans. Sweden is a small country and a great space nation. Last Parliamentary Session we adopted a space strategy that pointed out the direction of our nation's priorities in space activities. The greatest possible social benefit was a key concept. A societal problem that space activities can help to solve is the climate challenge. I would like to ask the Government: what is the future of this work?
i-797c955f64d736d4-342	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question from the honourable Member. In fact, space operations, not least the important Esrange space base in Kiruna, are not only important for Kiruna, Norrbotten and Sweden, but also for the world. Is it something that we benefit from when it comes to our investments in space, it is precisely about dealing with the environment and climate? We need those investments and the equipment that we put up in space to monitor and see floods, forest fires, droughts and ice that melt but also to be able to move on to a more sustainable society. We need the satellites to get through this with self-driving cars and to be able to transport us better and so on. These are truly important issues in which we can truly feel that what we invest in space benefits us in our lives on earth.
i-797c955f64d736d4-345	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson.
i-797c955f64d736d4-346	These are some of the headlines in my local newspaper in the middle of Järfälla. If you look in another newspaper, the headlines are different but not better. When the government took summer leave, Sweden's big problems have not done so. Serious crime is escalating. People are being executed on the street. And people are forced to accept that the police do not have the resources to investigate so-called everyday crimes. Morgan Johansson is happy to talk about the proposals on the table. But what is the timetable for all the proposals already voted by a majority in this House? The proposal for anonymous witnesses is one of them.
i-797c955f64d736d4-348	Madam President, I would like Right now, they're negotiating. The proposal on anonymous witnesses is a proposal that is on the table, along with many other things, such as a proposal for more stringent penalties for legal abuse. It is also a matter of ensuring that increased resources and support for social services and schools in vulnerable areas can be involved and a balance in prevention and law enforcement efforts. Nevertheless, we can state from the government that we have done more, I would say, in these five years than any other government to strengthen the fight against crime. There are a large number of penalties. More specifically, I think it is about thirty. It's the biggest increase in police resources ever. There are two new police training courses, one in Borås and one in Malmö. We are training three times as many police officers as the Moderates did etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. Just recently, we presented new grants to the prison services and the courts to ensure that the entire judiciary is strengthened. We will continue to do this. I hope that we can do so in as broad a consensus as possible.
i-797c955f64d736d4-353	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Europaminister Hans Dahlgren. The development of the EU's security and defence policy has been very rapid in recent years. It is important because Europe must take greater responsibility for Europe's security, not least in the light of the deteriorating world situation that we are now experiencing. As part of this, a new Directorate-General for Defence Industry will now be created. The new President of the Commission has also said that the EU will develop into a Security and Defence Union. We Moderates welcome this provided it does not duplicate the activities of NATO. But I know that this is much more controversial within the Social Democracy, which is attached to the freedom of military alliance. I would therefore like to ask Mr Dahlgren: will the government now try to stop the development of a security and defence union within the EU? How would this affect Sweden's influence in this area? And what about the new Directorate for Defence Industry?
i-797c955f64d736d4-356	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pål Jonson, for the question! This is an important and exciting area of work for the future as well. Sweden is militaryly non-aligned. It is not something we cling to, but we think it is a good attitude that has served and served Sweden well. It also benefits stability and security throughout our part of Europe. How we are going to be involved in security policy cooperation in the future within the European Union will be seen when these plans crystallise. We are positively committed to promoting security, both external and internal security, for the European Union. And we are anxious that this should be done in an intergovernmental way. If we can get that guaranteed, we are also positively committed to the future.
i-797c955f64d736d4-359	Madam President, I would like In fact, some things are better in reality than in movies, such as the prison service. In the world of Hollywood movies, prison workers are often stupid, mean, and corrupt. Swedish penitentiary is the opposite of all this. I myself have worked in prison, and now as a politician I meet those who are now employed. Few times I have met such professional and dedicated staff. There have been fewer escapes over time. It prevents methodologically violent situations, evaluates its own programmes and keeps only those who show that the prisoners are getting better out. Recently, however, I have also faced a concern on the part of the employees as to how they are going to carry out their mission in the future. There is now a great pressure on the prison services with very high occupancy.
i-797c955f64d736d4-363	Madam President, I would like The short answer to that question is that we are now making a historic effort in the area of penitentiary care. In the election campaign, I went around and said that if we win the election, we will ensure that not only the police get increased resources but also that the courts, the correctional services, the National Board of Forensics and the rest of the judiciary now also join in the great expansion that needs to come about given that the law enforcement is in place. That is why the occupancy of the prison system is now increasing, both on the detention centres and on the prison side. The other day we were able to report that we are adding another SEK 200 million for the current year to the prison services, in addition to the SEK 300 million we spent in the spring. This means that only for this year will the prison system be strengthened by over half a billion dollars. Next year there will be additional funding. We now see that we will be able to start a long series of investments with which we have waited and which are now included in the plan, and that is fantastic.
i-797c955f64d736d4-365	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Mikael Damberg. I would like to start by saying that my question is about the sea, about fishing and about the working environment at sea. Sweden has been a member of the International Maritime Organization of the United IMO since 1959. Sweden is one of 172 Member States. Sweden is also part of its council, or advice, and thus has a leading function. An important issue for the Council is precisely what I mentioned. But there is also something called Cape Town Agreement, which Sweden has not yet ratified. In 2022 this agreement will enter into force. I wonder what is the government's view on this. Will the government ratify? The work on ratification has been going on for a long time.
i-797c955f64d736d4-369	Madam President, I would like Twice during Question Time, I cannot give the exact answer. But I promise to take this matter to the minister responsible. However, I would like to say that I had expected another question on fisheries right now because we have the EU Minister in place. One of the major and serious issues in the case of Brexit also concerns fisheries. Should we get a hard Brexit, there will be very many questions that remain unanswered and that send a very great worry not least to the fishermen who are in Sweden. I'll take the question with me. I don't have an answer for it. But I suppose the question is being prepared.
i-797c955f64d736d4-372	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Morgan Johansson. Every day, lots of people go to work. It is successful companies and hard-working people's work that create increased prosperity and form the very foundation of the Swedish welfare society. But a flexible and productive labour market requires a functioning housing market. In this area, rental law has a special position as a lubricant for a high degree of labour market mobility. Today, however, many people are being squeezed and may be forced to turn down jobs or study places because the availability of rental apartments is limited, not least because of illegal trade in rental contracts. This has been noted by the Government, and in the spring of the year, the Riksdag decided on measures against trade in rental contracts with legislative amendments that will enter into force on 1 October this year. What consequences does the Minister expect the new law to have?
i-797c955f64d736d4-375	Madam President, I would like I visited the police in Uppsala the other week. Then a presentation was made where someone said that on October 1st there will be a new law on the black trade. I said that I know, because it is I who have submitted the motion to Parliament. I thought that was great. And I said that sometimes we have our bright moments. But that the Minister of Justice is also in charge of some of the rental matters is not known to everyone. It is the case that, as of 1 October, trade in black contracts and unlawful subletting is criminalised. This means that we are giving the police a new tool in order to get rid of the carpet for some of the criminal gangs that today can make a lot of money out of this very thing. So we get to organised crime. In addition to police action, in addition to criminal law, in addition to camera surveillance, we must also spend our money and strangle the funding possibilities of criminal gangs. This new law, which will enter into force on 1 October, will help in this work.
