i-506f066b8d3c76a6-4	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what I think regions and county councils can offer planned healthcare to people who are not allowed to reside in the country and what measures I intend to take to prohibit county councils and regions from providing planned care to this group. Lars Beckman has also asked me whether I intend to take any measures to prohibit municipalities from paying support to people who are not entitled to be in Sweden. Finally, Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I and the government are taking to ensure that the concept of care which cannot be allowed to be interpreted in the same way throughout the country. Since 2013, adults residing in Sweden without a permit have the right to health care that cannot be granted under the law of the then bourgeois government, the Act (2013:407) on health care for certain foreigners who reside in Sweden without the necessary permits. It is also clear from the Act that county councils have the opportunity to offer care, up to the same level as residents( § 8). It is voluntary for county councils to make use of this possibility. The Government considers that there is no reason to change this regime. Care that goes beyond the care that the county councils are obliged to offer is not reimbursed according to the municipal funding principle. How individual county councils choose to organise their care and what care they offer people who reside in Sweden without permission is an issue that neither I as a minister nor the government can consider. Municipalities have according to Chapter 4. Section 2 of the Social Services Act allows voluntary assistance to persons residing in the country without permission. However, aid is not an appealable right. Thus, municipalities have no obligation to provide assistance to these people. According to the form of government, municipalities handle local and regional matters of general interest on the basis of the municipal self-government. In view of the voluntary commitment, the Government sees no reason to restrict the autonomy of municipalities on the basis of the question expressed by the interpeller. According to the preliminaries to the law, the concept is intended to extend the treatment defined as immediate, i.e. emergency care. What is considered as unacceptable care must always be determined in the individual case by the treating physician, dentist or other responsible health care provider. It is only the treating physician or other responsible healthcare professional who has knowledge of the patient's individual circumstances and who can assess what measures are required and when. In other words, it is a medical assessment that must be made in each individual case according to the patient's condition. Therefore, for natural reasons, the types of care that will be provided must be different. The Government considers that there is no reason to change this regime.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-14	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This interpellation is therefore about those people who are illegally in Sweden, who do not have the right to be here. It is about the fact that there are certain regions that obviously over-taste Swedish migration policy by sending an opposite signal. You have the right to apply for asylum in Sweden. You have the right to have a fair trial. Then you get a yes or a no, and at a no you must necessarily leave Sweden. We now know, Madam President, that, unfortunately, it does not work that way today. A lot of people are in Sweden who do not have the right to stay here. I will correct myself: In the interpellation it says that there are six regions in Sweden that do this, but there are only five because Västernorrland has changed its regulations. But five regions in Sweden thus provide extended care to people who are staying in the country without permission. It is, of course, morally wrong. It sends a signal to those who are in Sweden that you are entitled to planned medical care and dental care, although you do not have the right to be here. Here, of course, the government should not renounce its responsibilities. If we want a migration policy that holds together, we want a migration policy that sends a message and a signal, it would of course be reasonable to say: No, you are not entitled to planned medical care or planned dental care. However, the fact that you have the right to care that cannot be tolerated, i.e. emergency medical care, is self-evident. Of course, it would be morally reprehensible if someone had a broken leg, an arm fracture, or some other serious illness that required immediate care and did not receive it. We fully agree on that. Just as the Government said in its reply, the then bourgeois government clarified this. To say, however, as the Government says in its answer, that one can accept the order that we have a national migration policy and a national review of the right to apply for asylum in Sweden but allows some municipalities and regions to review the migration policy that Sweden has, is simply indecent. You could solve what Region Västernorrland has done. It says that anyone who has a valid LMA card is entitled to care. If you are without permission in Sweden you do not have a valid LMA card. It would therefore be a fairly simple matter for the government to resolve the issue if it really wanted to. Madam President, I would like It is also a moral issue in relation to anyone who needs medical care and has worked his whole life. You bite off a tooth, you may live in Hälsingland, you go to the people's dental care as you have always done, and then you find out that there is a very long queue to get to the people's dental care. This may be because, among other things, the government approves that certain regions give planned dental care to those who have never paid tax in Sweden, who have never done the right thing in the insurance systems and who also do not have the right to stay in Sweden. If you want an orderly migration policy, it would be a very simple thing to say: No, of course regions do not have the right to review Swedish migration policy. Of course, we should not give planned medical care and dental care to people who are not entitled to stay in our country.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-24	Madam President, I would like I have had this debate with the Government before. If I remember correctly, it was just before we went on summer vacation. I think it is still as topical as it was at the time, given that we still have five regions offering care to undocumented asylum seekers who have an expulsion decision. This means that we will have an increased cost. We're getting a longer line of care. In addition, we are abandoning the legislative, regulated immigration that we have decided on. I agree with my colleague, Lars Beckman: health care that cannot stand is decent to offer undocumented asylum seekers, including those who have been given an expulsion order. It's okay. But that everyone should receive care, habilitation, dental care and the right to assistive devices, I do not think that Sweden should be able to do so. If you have received a no on an asylum application, it should be a no. I still think that we are moving away from regulated immigration and the decision that we have by saying yes to the free care of those people who have received a 'no'. I would also like to add that it is strange that we can allow such a free interpretation in this country, because we have legislation that says that it should be care that cannot stand up but that we still allow five regions to depart from that legislation. As a moderate, I think that we should go back to the legislation that we had before 2013, which was much more restrictive and where care that cannot stand actually meant just care that cannot stand. It was not health care that included our entire welfare system.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-28	Madam President, I would like I am here for another interpellation debate and was not going to go up in this debate, but I really cannot help it. We have many major challenges in Swedish healthcare – there are not two things to talk about – but when the Moderates choose to highlight an issue here, it will be that people who are staying in the country without permission have access to some health care. Let me remind you that this legislation was actually produced by the Alliance Government. We had a major debate in this House on this and were at that time touchingly agreed between the four alliance parties that those who are not entitled to reside in the country should leave the country. It is said here that it is about those who have been given an expulsion decision, but most of them are those who have never applied for a residence permit in this country at all. We agreed on this, but at the same time we said that the right to healthcare should not be something that we use to force people to leave Sweden. If you have had a disease, you should have the right to receive healthcare in Sweden. It was Saila Quicklund from the Moderates who then represented the party, and I remember so well that she said that the people who reside in the country, even if they are not allowed to be here, should still be given the opportunity to live a dignified life and not stand without treatment if they suffer from disease. I also remember how Mrs Quicklund said that she, as a moderate, was proud that at the time five parties had agreed on this proposal. The Social Democrats had a reservation, so it was the four alliance parties and the Green Party that wanted to create this opportunity. There is no question of not staying in the country if you are not entitled to it, but we should not withhold medical care for people with severe diseases. Then the discussion has come up about the few county councils that have said that it is not only about care that cannot stand up but also other care. I followed that discussion quite closely, and it was very much the demands of the staff, because it is not easy when you stand there in the emergency department and will decide whether it is care that cannot be given or any other form of care. It was in particular the region of Östergötland that removed the regulation, and after looking into it it was seen that it did not entail any additional costs to do so. This meant that Sörmland, Gävleborg and perhaps some other region also went into it. Then the question is: Should the law prohibit county councils, regions, from offering certain forms of care? I would rather that we could force regions and county councils to offer some form of care. After all, Madam President, we have municipal autonomy, and this means that in some regions care is offered that is not offered in others. It is clear that one can always discuss whether it is right or wrong, but the important principle is still the legislation that we have and which means that even if one does not have the right to reside in the country, the health care system should not be withdrawn and the door to the emergency department closed in order for these people to be forced out of the country. We have a border police officer to deal with it. The most interesting thing about this interpellation debate is that when the Moderates finally want to discuss healthcare in this House, it is not about the queues, the problems of primary care, the problems of psychiatry or the addiction care that is not working well. Instead, there may be someone who has no permission to stay in the country who may have his injury covered or may be given antibiotics against his throat flu. I find that interesting in this discussion.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-34	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that there is an interest, albeit dizzy, in Lars Beckman for healthcare issues. I can't help but agree with Anders W Jonsson's speech here when it comes to discussing healthcare, it's like you think there's a small group that might get some care – I didn't have time to write down verbatim, but I can read the protocol later – and it's really group that is being set up against group. It is as if this group did not receive care, we would almost not have either queues or any other problems in Swedish health care. Someone used the word abstinence, and I think we can discuss what is indecent in this discussion. To put a group against a group-- what are the facts that say how much this group costs? I think I had the same discussion with Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm also last time, and I think that we need to learn to keep migration policy separate and health policy separate. Migration policy is on its own. It is, of course, about anyone who is allowed to reside in the country and who is allowed to apply for asylum being allowed to stay and to be given the opportunity for integration, training and work with all the difficulties and opportunities that this entails. If you don't get permission to stay, you should be rejected. A lot of people leave the country voluntarily, but not everyone does, and that requires that it be carried out differently from coming and claiming that someone is being given some care in some particular region, some individual county council, and that it would undermine migration policy. It's indecent to say that. I would like to say that we have a first-class health policy in so many ways in terms of equivalence and equality, although we, like everyone else, have great challenges. However, when it is claimed that migration policy would in some way be undermined, I would like to take this opportunity to mention that the measures we have taken in recent years have really played a role. We have an effective return. I would like to draw attention to the fact that 80 000 people without the right to stay here have left Sweden since 2014. There is also a picture, both in the interpellation itself and in the posts, that there are so many who are here, and what if these regions just didn't offer them care! I think it would have been interesting if there had been a representative of some health profession here in the speaker's chair and discussed what you actually meet. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm is happy to describe how she views the situation. To say that it would be obscene or immoral for people living in Sweden to receive some care – I find that indecent. I would also like to say that I am Minister of Social Affairs and not Minister of Integration, but of course I am following these issues very closely anyway. I think there is a very unfortunate confusion between health policy and migration policy. Much needs to be done to continue to govern migration policy and ensure that people can actively return. It's about workplace inspections. It is also about detention capacity that has been increased in recent years in order to allow people to be detained while waiting for expulsion. I think it should be interesting to hear further speeches about this and to hear a little more about how this would undermine migration policy. Perhaps there may also be some decency in that debate.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-42	Madam President, I would like I really think the Government should read the Minutes. I was just talking about in my first speech that we fully agree that anyone who needs emergency medical care should of course receive it. That's what's decent. The obscene and what makes this migration policy not stick together is that we have an authority that examines national politics, an authority that examines the right to reside in Sweden and five regions, of which Gävleborg is unfortunately one, that provides care to people who do not have the right to stay here. I do not know if the Government has read the interpellation, but it shows what the cost is. One might think that a quarter of a billion is a lot or a little money, but it is at least this amount that it costs. My interest in health care is much greater than just this issue, and I would also like to say for the record. I understand that the Government does not understand the problem of having a migration policy, but send another signal by allowing the regions to reconsider this policy. I would recommend that the Government meet voters. It's pretty healthy. For example, you can knock on doors in Ockelbo, Gävle or Söderhamn and ask them what they think is good and bad. I don't know if it's because Gävleborg has taken many foreign born in a short time, but I can tell you that it's not uncommon that older people in particular talk about that it's a deep injustice that those who have never paid taxes or have no right to stay in Sweden have the right to planned dental care. Even acute dental care is questioned, but I think this is obvious that we should have, as I said in my first post. But I understand anyone who thinks so, because it sends a signal. This shows the government's problems. The Government obviously does not understand why it is foolish to say that we should have a coordinated or orderly migration policy while allowing five regions to provide planned healthcare and dental care. This has consequences. I understand that not everyone has time to listen to P4 Gävleborg, but one of the elements was about a woman from Hälsingland who didn't get dental treatment in time because there have been very long queues for public dental care. When you visit public dental care or talk to those who try to get in touch with public dental care, you hear that in a short time many people have come with poor dental health, at least to Gävleborg. It is clear that very long queues affect the possibilities for those who live in Gävleborg, who have paid taxes there throughout their lives and who bite off a tooth and need help with dental care. Of course it's affecting. The government does not accept its responsibility here, as she says that the government will not do anything about the legislation. If I understood the speech by the Center Party, it is about making a reverse legislation, that is to say forcing all 21 regions to provide planned health care and dental care. I think this would be a very bad idea, although I understand that the Centre Party and the Social Democrats are working closely together right now. I think it should be sent a signal: You have received a yes and have the right to be here, or you have received a no and should leave the country. If it is a no, we should not, of course, give planned healthcare or dental care to those who are not entitled to stay in Sweden. It's not complicated at all. Region Västernorrland, co-governed by Moderates and Social Democrats, has solved this very smoothly by saying that whoever has a valid LMA card has the right to healthcare. This is something that the government could do if it had the will and the ability.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-52	Madam President, I would like It's about some medical care that can't stand it. The Center Party is talking about giving people a dignified life. Yes, of course we will, but it is about people who have the right to reside in the country, who have a residence permit and who have received a yes to their asylum application. We have a primary care that goes on its knees. We have incredibly long lines. And now we're talking about having a medical system in primary care, but we don't have doctors or staff to do that. Most regions show a negative result. We have care queues that are growing for most disease diagnoses, and we have cancer care that absolutely does not meet the health guarantee we face. Then I see no reason whatsoever for us to offer care to those who have received an expulsion order, to those who reside in the country without a permit and to those who are undocumented. This is not a debate on migration policy, but it is a pure and simple debate about the fact that care that cannot stand is okay. Antibiotics should be given to people who have tonsillitis or who have an acute infection or heart attack but do not offer long treatment series and investigations when we face long care queues and large costs within our healthcare apparatus. Then it is not okay to give care to those who do not have the right to reside in the country.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-55	Madam President, I would like There will be a confused discussion. The legislation passed by the Alliance Government in 2013 said that those who reside in the country and who do not have a permit have the right to health care that cannot stand up. It was this principle that the alliance government established. These are, on the one hand, undocumented persons who have never applied for a residence permit and, on the other hand, those who have been refused a residence permit. Here's some different news from the Moderates. Is this the legislation you want to tear up or not? One moderate says one way, and the other says the other. The intervention is about one more thing, and that is that some regions have decided to remove the requirement for care that cannot stand up and said that the staff should be able to decide this on the basis of the Health Act. Where this has been done, it has been precisely because of the demands of the staff, who say that this is a hopeless law to interpret. They say: Let us do what we normally do, i.e. make the assessment in the emergency department based on the Health Care Act. When Gävleborg and Sörmland introduced such a possibility, i.e. went beyond what the laws of the alliance government had allowed, it was based on Östergötland's calculations, where it was seen that this change did not entail a significant increase in costs. This is because this is not a group of people who are happy to run into the emergency departments, because they are, of course, terrified of what can happen in a situation where they are looking for care. Suddenly, the border police can come and throw them out. The Center Party stands by the laws of the Alliance Government, that is to say, one should have the right to care that cannot stand up. That is the line that Moderate Saila Quicklund defended in this House. If there are regions that want to go beyond, they can decide it, just as they have the opportunity to provide additional care to other groups. It's not something we're supposed to control from here in Stockholm. This is the Center Party line.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-59	Madam President, I would like It is the various points of view that make this debate not quite connected. We can experience problems in Swedish cancer care, depending on where we are and which groups we refer to. The Queues of Gävleborg's dental care – what is the reason for them? Well, they mean, it's those who stay in the country without permission, who get so much care and who cost so much money. I must say that I think this is an indecent way to conduct politics in the Swedish Parliament. It is about providing care that cannot stand up, but it is also about giving an opportunity for county councils, or regions like it is now called, to decide that they want to deal with this in a slightly different way. I do not need to repeat Anders W Jonsson's speech, which was about how healthcare professionals can experience it, but I think it is important to understand that this is what it is all about. It is not a political statement that people have the right to all care available or that it is okay, even if they have received a rejection decision, to continue to live in Sweden and that they have exactly the same rights as everyone else. This is not what the law says, but an opportunity can be given to health professionals, who often face difficult situations, to determine whether it is care that can be taken over or care that cannot be taken over. Just as I mentioned, if Lars Beckman heard the answer I read out here, there is an opportunity to do so, but it is not part of the municipal funding principle. You don't get paid for it. It is not something that the state encourages, but it is not something that we prohibit. I think this is important to discuss, but I still find this debate a little distressing. It lands in that it is five regions that have given an increased opportunity that the state does not fund. They themselves have judged that they want to give healthcare professionals this opportunity because it would solve many of the problems of care. It should not involve other kinds of challenges at all and believe that the economy that would then be needed would be matched by those that are given the opportunity to take care. I think it would have been reasonable to discuss whether we have an effective migration policy. What about expulsions, detention facilities and so on? But I don't buy the impact statement and analysis that uses health policy as a bat in the discussion and basically puts group against group – it makes it sound like any shortcomings in healthcare are about a certain group, that is, it is because of people who are staying in Sweden without permission that we have shortcomings in Swedish healthcare.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-66	Madam President, I would like The subject of the post-interpellation debate will be the LSS and the right to personal assistance, if I understand it correctly. It is clear that it affects, for example, access to assistive devices for severely ill people if some regions provide aids and planned medical care to those who are not entitled to stay in Sweden. Surely this is the problem of the government and the government: you do not have a coherent policy. You do not have a coherent line in politics. It makes it twitchy, hateful and difficult to understand your policy, and that is exactly why I have put this interpellation. I do not agree at all with the Center Party that we should force 21 regions to provide planned health care and dental care, but I think that the government should take the same wise decisions that have been made in Västernorrland. It has been said that those who have a valid LMA card also have the right to health care that can restrain, while those who, on the other hand, do not have the right to stay in Sweden should of course not have that right. It is a test of Swedish migration policy, and it should be a matter of concern to a minister that there are regions which pursue policies which run counter to national policies. That's the consequence. Moreover, it can have other absurd consequences. We have a family in Hälsingland who brought their mother here from a non-EU country. She needed an operation, and they paid for it. Instead, if they had said that their mother was in Gävleborg without permission, they would not have had to pay for the operation. So there are absurd consequences as well. Actually, it's quite simple: A yes is a yes, and a no is a no. We fully agree that we should of course have the right to care that cannot be tolerated, that is, emergency medical care, but we do not agree on planned medical care and planned dental care. There is a fundamental difference between the view of the Moderates and the view of the Social Democrats and the government.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-71	Madam President, I would like Although it may not sound that way to the listener, I think there is a rather broad consensus on migration policy. The person who has been authorised to stay must be given the opportunity to stay and the opportunity to integrate, receive training and get a job. Those who do not receive a residence permit – who do not receive their asylum application – must leave the country. I believe that there is agreement on this. Now I hear that Lars Beckman is not content with the fact that it is only the shortcomings in Swedish healthcare that could be addressed if people who are staying here without permission did not receive care, but this obviously also applies to LSS and all the ambitions we have. It is clear that we can always make welfare even better. That's why we provide 5 welfare billions each year, and that's why we work with standardised health care processes. That's why we work with skills provision and work with a lot of other efforts. However, with regard to the shortcomings in society, this seems to fall into the fact that the problems are caused by a small group, which is very vulnerable. It is also not guaranteed care beyond what cannot stand, but the county councils have autonomy and thus the ability to decide how they want to manage and organise their health care. I would guess that you have a good dialogue with the health care provider that exists; I have not met everyone, but I am quite convinced that this is how you decide in a region when it comes to taking a cost that, moreover, you do not get compensation for from the state. So I can only say that we do not intend to change self-government in either municipalities or regions. That's a big question. Nor do we intend to change anything in the sense that we would replace or force everyone to offer care, but it is up to each county council and region to deal with these issues so that they can comply with this legislation in the very best way – which sounds very simple in Parliament's pulpit. What can stand, and what can't stand? However, the issue is much more difficult to deal with in everyday life.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-75	Madam President, I would like Pia Steensland has asked me if I take seriously the concerns that the disability movement describes and what measures I will take to ensure that the introduction of the supplement I am pleased that the memorandum on personal assistance for all aspects of breathing and meals in the form of gavage is now referred. This is an important step on the way for the government to be able to submit proposals to the Riksdag that meet the situation for people with large and lasting disabilities. However, Pia Steensland's question does not concern this, but she has concerns that a provision proposed in the memo could restrict the right to personal assistance for others who need it. For me and the government, it has been and is absolutely crucial that it should not be so. What Pia Steensland objects to is that it proposes a general rule in the LSS that assistance needs relating to basic needs should be of a very private and privacy sensitive nature in order to give the right to personal assistance. I am aware that the disability movement is concerned about this very thing. I know that the judgment of 2009 is controversial and badly liked by many in the disability movement, but the fact remains that the judgment is a precedent that sets out how the law should be interpreted and applied. The memorandum also makes it very clear that the proposed provision is intended only to codify the law in force and does not entail any change in substance. Pia Steensland notes that the memorandum does not contain a description of the impact of the proposed provision on the right to personal assistance for basic needs other than breathing and meals in the form of feeding. The explanation for this is very simple. As I said earlier, the purpose of the provision is only to codify the law in force. By definition, codification has no other consequences but to clarify what is already in force. Pia Steensland further expresses herself as if it is a government bill that has now been referred. That is not the case. The memorandum does not have the government as the sender but is prepared by officials of the Government Office. We will listen to the views of the consultation bodies and, after any adjustments, take a position on how the legislative proposal to Parliament should be drafted. This is how the legislative process works. With this, some of the parents I met during my time as a minister will be able to take a sigh of relief. However, for us as a government, there is still work to be done to ensure that personal assistance is of high quality and legal certainty. Next, as set out in the January Agreement, is to develop proposals on the right to personal assistance for self-care, how to narrow down the definition of normal parental responsibility within personal assistance and how to strengthen the right to personal assistance for supervision.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-82	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Minister for Social Affairs says that it is absolutely crucial for the government that the right to assistance should not be restricted. At the same time, there is therefore a great concern in the disability movement linked to the current legislative proposal, namely that only that part of the basic need that is of a very private or privacy sensitive nature should give the right to personal assistance. The memorandum states, as the Minister says, that the proposed amendment to the law is merely a codification of the law in force and that no substantive amendment is envisaged. I can understand the principle that existing case law is written into the law in order to clarify what applies and, in this case, to exempt breathing and probe feeding from this practice. However, after having talked with a number of lawyers, Madam President, I do not feel confident that the right to assistance for basic needs other than breathing and probe feeding will in fact not be affected. Today's tough case law is a consequence of the Government's regulation letter to Försäkringskassan 2016. The directive to break the trend in the number of hours of assistance compensation has been devastating. The Authority began to interpret old judgments more restrictively, and lives and families have been beaten to pieces. People have been deprived of their freedom and participation in society. Those most affected are those who apply for assistance for the first time. Today, very few people receive new assistance granted by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, and others who have lost their right to assistance are those who were not fortunate enough to be saved by the two-year suspension. Many who are currently eligible for assistance have decisions based on older people, more generous practices from Försäkringskassan and the courts. The risk of the proposed amendment coming into force is that, in combination with the two-year re-examinations, thousands of people with extensive disabilities who currently have personal assistance fall below the 20-hour limit. As a result, they would lose their State aid compensation, despite the fact that the need remains unchanged. That's the great fear here. That is why we should legislate away this tough case law, not confirm and codify it. It may not be possible to fully understand the pain that the victims live with every day, but we must try. Those of us who are elected to the Swedish Parliament have a responsibility to change the law, so that these people get their lives back. But the ultimate responsibility, Madam President – and the power – to take these initiatives lies with the government. In view of the criticism of the bill in the memorandum that has already been made by the disability movement, it is likely that the formal referrals will require other legal engineering solutions to save breathing and probe feeding. Once again, the government is forced to step back and redo. Madam President, I would like Every day without change is a lost day. I therefore hope that the government has already begun to think about alternative legal solutions. In his interpellation response, the Minister of Social Affairs says that the government will work to ensure that personal assistance is of high quality and legal certainty. She also refers to the January agreement. However, the agreement lacks the most important measure necessary to restore the intention of the LSS, namely to ensure that all basic needs should be assistance-based in their entirety. This is something that we Christian Democrats are fighting for. Madam President, I would like I know that the Liberals, the government's cooperation party, have the same ambition as we Christian Democrats in this. During a debate in this House a few weeks ago, I therefore asked the spokesperson of the Liberals whether he felt it was inhibiting that this intention was not included in the January agreement. The positive response I received was that the agreement is rather a lever and that there are ongoing discussions about reviewing the overall picture of all basic needs. Madam President, I would like I understand that the Minister for Social Affairs cannot tell you the details of talks between the January parties. However, I wonder whether the Government can confirm that it is prepared to do more to save assistance than is stated in the January Agreement.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-91	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Pia Steensland for the question. I am well aware that there is concern. It has been obvious for quite a long time. It is no disadvantage to conduct this debate, but whatever it is, I understand and see that concern. I find it a bit boring when Pia Steensland as a mantra should always read out that the tough application today at Försäkringskassan depends on government decisions and regulatory letters. That's not true. It depends on the judgments that have come since 2009. Unfortunately, in 2009 it was not my party that was in government, but then it was Pia Steensland's party colleague Maria Larsson who was going to wrestle with these tough questions, which I know she did and which I did with her and all the other parties. We continue to do this work, but account must be taken of the changes that have taken place and of the great influence of judgments that give rise to practice. Otherwise, it would be very easy to say that we should just make a new regulatory letter. That's the feeling that I think you might give people: that it's so simple but we don't want to. It's not like that. It's not that we don't want to. It's not that it's very simple and that we don't. I really want to say it clearly. The amendment of the law that we are proposing is aimed at more people getting assistance – not less; then we would never bring forward that amendment. You can have a great deal of understanding for those who want to take quite other and much more grips, but it is also very important to be aware that in that case we can back down. Then there will be no right to assistance for probe feeding this summer, but it is a completely different process. It's not just a matter of saying all the basic needs, but it's an incredible amount of work that we need to do, according to quite a lot of people working on these issues. We are well aware that we need to do a great deal of work. The four parties cooperating in accordance with the January Agreement have in many ways the same intentions. But what I always find unfortunate is when it sounds like there is some simple solution that someone does not do because the will does not exist. I would like to take this opportunity to say that I take the concerns seriously. We also take seriously the comments we receive in consultation rounds. It is a formal requirement that we have consultation rounds, but there is no formality for me in the sense that we then just put it aside. It is clear that we will take note of the referral points that are coming. I sometimes feel that there should be a lawyer here and explain why you do it in a specific way. When I work with these very difficult writings, I ask a lot of questions to make sure what it leads to: It doesn't make it difficult, does it? Can we do anything else? I ask a lot of questions because I'm not a lawyer. I'm a politician, and I want people to get assistance when they need it. I know what you feel like your intention. But the reason why we are now entering what is customary is that practice is the same thing as law. It is not that Försäkringskassan develops a practice that we now make law, but when the court makes decisions it becomes practice and law. Now we have to write it in order to make exceptions. Otherwise, we can't change the law. Then let's not change the law. If you want to make completely different decisions that require completely different preparation documents, you are not able to make this decision about the right to assistance for probe feeding. There have been many tours about this, and it is curiosity that I might have to take in the next post. It is believed that you cover the whole process, but then it turns out that i- and disconnection is not included, and then it is cleaning that is not included. There are many elements in this, although you might think that it is just to say that there should be the right to assistance for probe feeding. Politics has taken many steps.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-98	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I would really like to say that I have no doubt about the intentions of the Government. You have a heart in the question and want the absolute best, Lena Hallengren. I want you to be safe that I really believe. What I do in my role is to help us do what we can to ensure that it really is right and good and that we do not have the effect that the great concern is about. On the basis of the explanation given by the Minister, I understand the background to the fact that the officials of the Government Office have chosen this wording in the memo. I understand the description of making this exception. I am not a lawyer either, but when I talk to other lawyers, they say that there are other legal solutions that should be looked at in order not to risk including this interpretation in the law. I'm sure the referee will be quite critical. They will describe the fears that exist in the movement, because it is about people's lives. I know that the Minister is fully aware of this too. I have a brief comment to make on this with the regulatory letter. Yes, the judges came first in 2009. The Christian Democrats were then in power. However, this does not ignore the fact that the directive in the letter of regulation was to reduce the number of assistance hours. What the authority did then, Madam President, was to begin to interpret these judges more restrictively. The statistics show the dramatic blow in the number of aid beneficiaries and, not least, that it is incredibly difficult to get into the system when you are affected for the first time and have this need. When official reports show that the consequences of this letter of regulation have been devastating, I believe, Madam President, that it is the government's duty to pull the emergency brake. Already in December 2017, reports from the National Board of Health and Welfare showed the strong consequences. Then it was the Social Democrats who were in the lead. In our opinion, they should have pulled the emergency brake even then and put forward strong proposals for legislative changes. I put an explicit question to the Minister for Social Affairs: if she can confirm that the government is prepared to do more to save assistance than is stated in the January agreement, as cooperation parties express in debate here in this House. I know that many people with extensive disabilities and their families need to hear an answer to that question. I would be grateful, Madam President, if the Minister for Social Affairs could touch on that.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-105	I would like to make a reminder. It was quite right when, at the end of his speech, the Member used the floor. You speak through the President. You don't say that and you don't say that.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-106	Madam President, I would like I almost lost sight of the question I kept in mind that Pia Steensland asked. I think Pia Steensland understands that I will not stand here in an interpellation debate and tell you about things that are not previously known and about how our discussions are. The ambition is to make the assistance even better. It's not hard to think it'll get even better. There are very many and great flaws. We don't have to repeat it. The difficulty of seeing what changes we are going to make has rendered in the item in the January agreement on assistance. It concerns self-care, narrowed parental responsibility and supervision. It's those parts that we're connected. Then we will come back and see what happens further. I'm not going to review too much. Pia Steensland also did not mention which Member it was about. Of course you can want a lot of different things. Before we put our feet down and major investigations are being carried out, I think it is a pity – and I have said this many times in this House, so it is no news – that we have not been able to refer back to the investigation that Gunilla Malmborg did in order to be able to pick parts and be able to at least have a preparation basis. It is not easy to explain to those who are affected who do not get the assistance they need that you need something called preparation data. That is why I am so keen that we should not simplify the discussion too much. The letter of regulation referred to by Pia Steensland quickly changed back. It wasn't for long. The fact that a regulatory letter that is removed after a few months would have a change that affects for many years but does not have any effect speaks as soon as possible of the ambition that exists to constantly make equivalent assessments in an authority. You shouldn't be exposed to getting the right case officer. That's a guess. Maybe I shouldn't be speculative in any way in the pulpit as a minister. But I'm pretty sure it matters. Everyone agrees that you should have an equal assessment regardless of who you meet. You don't want to feel: How lucky I was to have such a good handler. It is important to ensure that you do the same everywhere and have very clear guidelines to stick to. I think it matters. You can't just say, go back to your intentions. It's been 25 years. The legislation was like a law of rights that meant that the meeting with the individual would see the needs and ensure that it gets the best possible conditions to live their lives like others. Unfortunately, it is not a unique area when it comes to assistance to want to harmonise or make it equivalent and the same. It's about being absolutely sure that you followed every single point. You don't feel free to make your own interpretations. It is a challenge in our government system at all. We are very used to the fact that in our other security systems we know exactly. They don't compare. But if you have this income, you'll be sick this long and you'll get this allowance. It's very black on white. The difficulty when we are used to that kind of interpretation is that you need to work here in a completely different way. You need to see the needs of the individual. Another flexibility would be needed. That's not what the systems look like. It's not with any simplicity you adjust it. I understand that there are concerns and concerns. At present, I cannot determine what all the consultative bodies will write and to whom we will listen. But we will take them very seriously. I can't choose which lawyer I'm listening to either. We must, of course, assume that all the lawyers we have who work are doing everything they can. We also have a legal review of the things we do. I assume that Parliament as a legislative assembly still has confidence in the high level of legal competence that exists. But the political questions should be put right to achieve what we want.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-113	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. I very much appreciate that we have this dialogue, that we can have it and that we have a common ambition forward for it to be right. Unfortunately, despite the best ambitions, the legal process has repeatedly gone wrong. The President heard that the Minister of Social Affairs mentioned it. Then you've had to back off, and time has been wasted. It is incredibly important that the law is in progress. I am pleased that the Minister for Social Affairs describes that the consultation bodies will be taken seriously. I have not doubted it or thought otherwise. To all those who listen to the debate, I would like to say that we Christian Democrats will do our utmost to continue to monitor the process. It must not be the case that breathing and gavage are saved at the expense of other basic needs. Finally, I would like to emphasise that we Christian Democrats are seeing personal assistance increasingly being seen a little bit as a health and care effort. We therefore believe that it is crucial for the LSS itself to return to its basic intention. LSS will continue to be a freedom reform that will ensure that people with extensive disabilities can be fully involved in society. Madam President, I would like I hope that the government, like us Christian Democrats, will take a clear stand to push forward the work in the field of disability on the very basis that the right to assistance should not only be strengthened for health and social care. People with extensive disabilities should be able to live a life like others on their unique conditions and be fully involved in society. It is basically about human rights and what society we want.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-118	Madam President, I would like I very much agree with Pia Steensland's closing speech. One of the challenges we have is to ensure that. It is not uncommon that people who were often thought of when you saw the development of the assistance reform are people who today see themselves getting rid of the right to assistance. I really share that view. I would like to conclude by repeating that we will be extremely careful about the points of reference. We'll write as clearly as we can. At the same time, I am very concerned about the efforts we need and want to make to ensure that people and, above all, children with the need for assistance for feeding and breathing really get it. Do we need to do more things? Undoubtedly so. I have mentioned before what is in the January agreement. We'll have to get back to you. Finally, I would like to say that I am very concerned about the forecasts we receive from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. It is about looking in the rear-view mirror but also about what forecasts we are looking at. We want to see a turn. It is not that we do not budget and hope that there will be money left over. On the contrary, we want to see a turnaround. We want the assistance to come to those who have the needs. We must see that development. We're not doing that yet, and I'm very concerned about that.
i-DNkkzJEb3nhQRtJt41hkc2	Madam President, I would like Anders W Jonsson has asked me if the government has taken the necessary clarifications in terms of assignments and mandates that the Swedish National Audit Office has identified in its 2018 report whether the government will include the supply of medicinal products and important medical materials in the next defence decision in accordance with the Defence Committee's reports and the Prime Minister's statements that the next defence decision will be based on them and what measures otherwise I and the Government take in view of the current situation in several regions regarding the supply of medicinal products. As I said earlier, I take the situation very seriously. The government and several government agencies have closely monitored developments. The National Board of Health and Welfare has a coordinating role, prepares situation assessments and organises collaboration conferences. The Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness, MSB, supports the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and also monitors the developments to detect consequences in other sectors at an early stage. The inspection of health and long-term care has begun a supervisory matter. What has happened shows that a short time supply problem can have a major impact on the county councils' activities, which is very worrying. It is therefore important to investigate what has gone wrong and how similar situations can be prevented in the future. The problems of material shortages in recent weeks do not concern medicines, but mainly consumables needed to carry out healthcare. But, of course, it is just as serious if the supply of medicines does not work. The Government has acted in response to the reports from the Swedish National Audit Office, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Defence Committee. An important measure was to set up the investigation into health care preparedness. The investigation will, among other things, review whether there are reasons to clarify the responsibilities of county councils, municipalities, state or private actors. The purpose of the investigation is, among other things, to increase the resilience of disruptions in the supply of medicines and medical technology and also to have a supply chain that can take rise to increased and specific needs in the event of serious events in peacetime and increased preparedness. The mission of the investigation includes analysing and assessing the proposals regarding healthcare in the Swedish Defence Committee's report Resistance. As far as pharmaceuticals are concerned, I would like to remind you that it was the alliance government that re-regulated the pharmacy market, which led to the state's removal of an important tool for ensuring access to medicines in the event of crises and increased preparedness. This was done without ensuring that the need could be met in other ways. Prior to the reregulation, Apoteket AB had a commitment under the operating agreement with the State to carry out, on a commercial basis, tasks within the supply of medicinal products by the defence. Apoteket AB would also perform the same tasks as the authorities that have responsibility under the then existing Regulation(2006:942) on emergency preparedness and increased preparedness. Neither Apoteket AB nor any other pharmacy operator currently has a corresponding commitment. We need effective access to medicines and healthcare materials under normal conditions, as well as in times of crisis and increased preparedness. The review will therefore provide the U trektion on health care preparedness additional directives. The aim is that the investigation should also be able to review how to prevent and deal with deficiencies that occur, even though there is no external impact in the form of a serious event.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-126	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for its answer! In the last month we have witnessed a breakdown in Swedish health care. It was also a major accident. The lack of elemental and simple material in five of our regions means that you are up to 500 operations cancelled, and that is extremely serious. What made me write the interpellation a few weeks ago was precisely that the government's response was that responsibility was not on the state but on the regions that had signed a bad agreement. I think it is incredibly important, in the case of Swedish health care, that there should be systematic quality work. Whether it is a small event at an individual reception or an accident of this magnitude, one must seize the opportunity to do everything one can, to take responsibility, to ensure that what has now happened will never happen again. What has now happened has not been a flash from the clear sky. There has been a warning signal that such a thing might happen. Now it was more a coincidence that it was precisely the five regions that were affected. The National Board of Health and Welfare performs repeated risk and safety analyses. Time and again they have said to the government that there is a vulnerability in the supply of medicines and that it is difficult to secure the storage of other materials. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office has said in a comprehensive review that this is a very weak point in Swedish healthcare, and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has difficulty in fulfilling its role as a monitoring authority because the government has given an unclear mandate and also an unclear mandate. Today this morning, representatives of the Medical Products Agency visited the Social Affairs Committee, and they pointed out that there is a lack of clarity as to which authority is responsible at all. In addition, the Defense Committee, which has looked a lot at civilian preparedness. The report on Resistance also addressed these very issues. The fact that, at this point, the government is devoting responsibility and spending it on the regions led me to react. Here the government must take a concerted approach and see what can be done and what conclusions can be drawn. This is very much a national responsibility. I give it to the Government that after I wrote the interpellation it has become a partly different attitude. A number of decisions have been taken which are in fact moving in the right direction. However, concerns remain as to whether there is sufficient progress in this area. At the corresponding breakdown of NKS in Stockholm, the government was quickly out and said that a government investigation will be set up to closely examine what has happened at NKS in Stockholm and how – implicitly – the Alliance – has mismanaged that region. But with regard to the present breakdown, it was not nearly as obvious that the government should go in and make sure that such an accident never happens again. It is easy to suspect that it may be because it was a social democrat who signed that particular agreement. My question remains as to what further action is to be taken.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-135	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Jonsson, for the question, although I think that Anders Jonsson is a bit unnecessarily conspiratory. I haven't found out who signed any kind of procurement contract. Unfortunately, politicians do not always understand what it looks like. This is part of the decisions you must consciously make. A great deal of influence is removed by allowing officials to carry out contracts, and then when a contract has been awarded, it is dependent on the person who conducted the procurement. And this is one of the questions that many ask. In the Stockholm region, for example, a number of years ago they backed up and said that this should be done in their own right to have a completely different control on what the preparedness should look like. I want to back up a little bit. I think Anders Jonsson is right in what he wrote in the interpellation and what he has said in his speech. Here a number of regions have not signed a sufficiently robust agreement. It has to be said anyway. In this case, it is also not a question of medicines, which is actually the theme of the interpellation. The procurement for the five regions concerned health care materials. It had worked for 18 years, and then a procurement was made to save some money. This contract was subsequently expensive. In this context, I would like to point out that the regions have a great deal of responsibility. One cannot make bad procurements and then say that someone else should help. Of course, we need to examine and follow up. That is why the current investigation will review the preparedness of the healthcare sector to receive an additional directive. It feels urgent. I would also like to emphasise that the National Board of Health and Welfare has a responsibility today. It may be interesting to hear that the National Board of Health and Welfare is responsible for emergency stocks of healthcare materials, but these stocks have been gradually phased out. Then there is a list of what is still in the stocks. This is part of what the emergency investigation should look at, such as electrical works, surgical instruments, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, damage site equipment and some other things. The Public Health Agency stores antiviral medicines, medicines for accidents involving chemical substances and for terrorist acts, radiation protection instruments and protective equipment. It is not that nobody has any responsibility, but that is exactly why an investigation has been working for almost two years. It will be an important event when that investigation presents its proposal, but it is difficult to precede the investigation because it is a major task for the investigator. I would also like to emphasise something that has been difficult, and that much of the criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office concerns, namely the issue of pharmaceuticals. When Apoteket AB was the only operator, it was easier to point to the operator and say what the responsibility was. Regardless of how you look at the re-regulation of pharmacies, it is genuinely much more difficult to say how to secure preparedness on the pharmaceutical side. As I understand it, there was an idea to find a way to get some actor to take a business responsibility. That's not where you came from. I take some responsibility for this, but this is an important issue for the crisis preparedness investigation. The problem is identified and investigated. It would have been desirable for the investigation to have been on the table a long time ago, but now it's on the table... and we'll have to move on from there.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-143	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I do not feel that I have received a response regarding the seriousness of the situation. Now it happened to be these five regions, and it happened to be the procurement of medical articles– not medicines– which have had such devastating consequences. In this situation, the alarm clock should sound at national level. Now the number of government agencies is looking at the issue. But it does not have to be the procurements that go wrong next time, but it can be about transport, infection or lack of medicines and so on. There are a large number of things. How are we in this country, with perhaps the best medical care in the world, to be able to perform health care even in a situation of greater disturbance? It may be a procurement that has gone wrong, but it may also be a number of other things. Now there are a number of things, and the alarm bells have sounded before. The Swedish National Audit Office and the Swedish Defence Committee have pointed this out, and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has repeatedly pointed out in its risk and safety analysis that there is no robust system in Sweden. It is clear that now that we are in the middle of the accident, it is about fixing the situation and ensuring that the emergency situations can be resolved. But the government also needs to step forward and take overall responsibility in the same way as it did in the case of NKS, when it appointed a government investigator who would go through it all on the basis of the analyses that existed. In the same way, the government should act here: Take a concerted approach! Make sure to collect all the work that is now being done and that will be done in the coming months from all government agencies! That also applies to the investigation that is working on this. One must take a concerted approach and ensure that proposals are made for legislative changes and other things that prevent this from happening again. Thankfully, this was what happened and not something more serious, one might say. After all, this means that emergency operations have been continued in these regions. What has been cancelled is planned surgery and other planned measures. It's bad enough, but this is still something we should take care of in the form of an alarm clock. And that alarm clock must not sound out into thin air, but there must be a health minister and a government prepared to take the overall responsibility and then come back and suggest measures to ensure that this never happens again. It is still these signals that I miss from the government and from the Minister for Health.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-149	Madam President, I would like I hear Anders W Jonsson's criticism. I don't want to say it runs off me, but I don't actually think it feels really fair. I intend to spend at least a few of these minutes talking about what the investigation that was set up in autumn 2018 is working on. It is not that the alarm bells are ringing and that nobody is doing anything and nobody has understood anything except Anders W Jonsson, who has understood all the breakdown and so on. This is one reason why the investigation has been set up. It has worked for more than a year and has one year left. The study will, among other things, review the preparedness of the healthcare system and make proposals on how the health care system's ability to deal with such events will be developed in the long term. It shall review the current arrangements to ensure the availability of medicinal products and other healthcare materials in the event of a serious event in peacetime and increased preparedness. The investigation must, based on principles of responsibility, i.e. that the person who is responsible for an activity normally also has corresponding responsibilities during crisis and war situations, test whether there is a need to clarify the responsibilities of different actors. It will test the need for closer collaboration between county councils and review whether the county councils' cooperation with other actors in the emergency response system needs to be developed. The investigation will analyse the need for and effectiveness of current preparedness storage and identify health care's dependence on private actors to deal with serious events in peacetime and increased preparedness and identify the requirements imposed by county councils on them and, if necessary, propose changes. The investigation aims, among other things, to increase the resilience of disruptions in the supply of medicines and medical technology and also to have a supply chain that can take rise to increased specific needs in the event of serious events in peacetime and increased preparedness. The investigation work will result in a roadmap for the development of preparedness and proposals for the constitutional changes required. At the moment, as I have mentioned before, we are preparing additional directives for the investigation to catch up on this, which actually is not at all about something big coming from outside, but about things that can occur in the event of minor disruptions. I would like to take this opportunity to say something about the NKS. It wasn't that the day they fucked up with the NKS, the government set up an investigation, but it's been years. When you see how you have handled the situation financially, it has been important to review it. But the same is true here: if this investigation and the emergency investigation had not already been set up, it would have been the time to set up an investigation. But now the investigation was set up more than a year ago, and it also receives additional directives to show that we should not only look at the most serious events and disruptions, but that there may also be other things that happen. I therefore find it difficult to see how the Minister for Health would otherwise take responsibility for the whole situation, in addition to continuing to ensure coordination and investigation. We need to make changes to make sure that this does not happen again, but I think it would be a bit premature if I were to stand and find out what changes were to be made. I await the inquiry and, in the meantime, the National Board of Health and Welfare has had close contacts with the regions concerned and with all the regions in order to ensure both their situation and how to assist each other. It is not clear that you are assisting each other as a neighbouring country or a neighbouring region, but then the National Board of Health and Welfare has been there to facilitate this and make visible what the needs look like. I would like to emphasise that the whole issue of the supply of medicines can indeed be the subject of another interpellation or other debates and talks, because it is in itself very extensive. What's the law gonna look like? Who could handle this? It is an important issue to look at, but I think it is still quite obvious that since we got the reregulation with many different actors it has become more complex and more difficult. I, my predecessors and perhaps also those who made the decision can be self-critical here and say: how do we deal with this? I hope that the investigation in this area too will provide us with better conditions so that we can make the necessary decisions in order to be well equipped. It is clear that the ambition is for us to have a Swedish healthcare system that is always well-functioning according to people's needs.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-162	Madam President, I would like I wrote the interpellation in a situation where the Minister's answer to the breakdown in these regions was: it is the responsibility of the regions. They're the ones who signed the deal. I thought that was quite the wrong signal from a government and from a Minister for Health, especially in a situation where this did not come as a flash from the clear sky. There were clear indications from authorities, the Swedish National Audit Office and so on that we need to secure this so that we can handle healthcare even in times of crisis and even when there are disturbances. Now there have been positive signals, I must say, on the part of the government. I'm glad. In this particular situation, we are still dealing with the emergency situation in regions, and then, of course, this is not the time to make new decisions. But I can say that there is a great deal of concern in the Committee on Social Affairs about dealing with what has happened. That is why a committee initiative is now on the table of the committee, which is just about this. It is about asking for accounts and ensuring that we really get a follow-up. We will use the seriousness that has now happened and see it as an alarm clock. This will be a clear signal to the government and later also to the Riksdag to make sure that Swedish health care does not skirmish just because it has been procured in a bad way. It also includes, of course, being able to review whether there is something that needs to be amended in the Public Procurement Act. It is possible that corrections may also be required there. But every stone must be turned around to see if we can take action that will prevent this from happening again.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-167	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I shall make a conciliatory closing statement, because I think that here it is really necessary for all good forces to cooperate. None of us feel the need not to solve problems or to try to be proactive. But I think that one can possibly distinguish between this and the comments made by the undersigned in the very first few days. I think that the regions have the main responsibility for Swedish health care. I think they have to take that responsibility and understand that they have it even when it's tough, even when it's blowing and even when you have bad procurement and zero stocks. You don't have any warehouses, and you don't have any preparedness. You think: This ends, but tomorrow there will be a new delivery! It's not being on standby. I think it is important that this readiness and responsibility should come to the fore in each region and that this should be fully understood. Otherwise, I do not think that they are taking on their responsibilities, and that makes it difficult to share the responsibilities that exist today. However, we shall of course do everything possible. I would like to signal to Anders W. Jonsson and to the Committee on Social Affairs that it is positive that we are taking this issue and that we are happy to cooperate with other committees, if I may go ahead with it a little bit. The law on public procurement is not in the Ministry of Social Affairs. In this case, health care is concerned, but the legislation itself is not with the Ministry of Social Affairs. It is therefore important that those working on this legislation should also consider what role it could play. It's about the Procurement Authority and so on. Now I transfer responsibility to another minister's knee, but somewhere it is important to see that there are many different actors who are involved in this and that it is a complex and comprehensive business to conduct Swedish health care, not least in our large hospitals. I look forward to continued good cooperation with Anders W Jonsson and his party, with the other parties and with the Social Committee to do everything we can to ensure that this does not happen again. The responsibility lies, of course, with Sweden's autumn decision-making and legislative assembly, but it also lies with each individual region. They must ensure that they are prepared for the events that may occur, not least when making contracts without robust contracts.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-174	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me whether I intend to take the problem of increasing mental illness seriously and do everything I can to break the trend of increasing mental illness and whether I see urgent action and that I cannot hide action in investigations and development areas. Increasing mental illness is a serious social problem. The risk of mental illness and sick leave is greatest in so-called contact professions in schools, health care and long-term care. These are areas where women work to a large extent. The government has taken several measures to reduce work-related ill-health. I share Elisabeth Rahm's view that the employer needs tools to prevent sick leave among employees. Occupational health care can provide such support to the employer. The Agency for Safety and Health at Work, Mynak, is tasked with monitoring and promoting the development of occupational health care. Mynak will, among other things, develop research-based guidelines that provide concrete advice on interventions, including mental illness. The social partners also have an important role to play in this context. At the Government's initiative, the parties have agreed to work towards a better working environment and reduced sick leave. These are both preventive measures and better opportunities for sick workers to return to work. The Government follows up the declarations of intent through regular talks with the parties. The government's view is that increased knowledge and good examples can contribute to healthier workplaces. Mynak has therefore been commissioned to compile research with a focus on factors that create healthy and healthy workplaces. In order to strengthen the individual's possibilities for rehabilitation, the employer has since 1 July 2018 been responsible for developing a plan of measures to return to work no later than 30 days after the start of the illness. This regulatory obligation is combined with contributions to employers for the purchase of workplace-oriented rehabilitation support. Such expert support may be provided by the occupational health service or other body with similar competence. Early contacts between health care and the employer about a patient's need for adjustments at work can shorten a case of illness. Such contacts can, for example, be made by a rehabilitation coordinator, if the patient agrees. In the Budget Bill, the Government proposes to introduce a statutory obligation for county councils to offer coordination efforts to patients on sick leave. This obligation is proposed to enter into force on 1 February 2020. Another area addressed in the interpellation is the challenges posed by the increasing mental illness to the relationship between healthcare and Försäkringskassan. The treatment of health insurance concepts is not straightforward. A constructive dialogue between Försäkringskassan and the healthcare sector is therefore needed. When dialogue fails, it is ultimately the individual who gets caught. On behalf of the Government, the National Board of Health and Welfare and Försäkringskassan have undertaken to take a number of concrete measures aimed at creating a common understanding and understanding of each other's assignments. The work will be done together with the health care system. So it is not a question of hiding the issue. On the contrary, I see the work of the authorities as central to a well-functioning sick leave process and will follow it closely. Increasing mental illness is a challenge for society as a whole. This is an issue that I and the government take very seriously. Much has been done, but I am not content with it. My starting point and the government's starting point is that no one should have to get sick of their work, and if you suffer ill health, you should be able to return to work quickly. All ill health that can be prevented should also be prevented.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-182	Madam President, I would like Yes, mental illness is a major problem. In an earlier debate that I had with one of the Prime Minister's colleagues, I referred to 10 000 people calling 112 and asking for help every day. By comparison, 500 people are sickly registered in Sweden every day. According to the Financial Facts, about 30 percent of these 500 people get sick leave due to mental illness. There are a large number of people we are talking about today. That's why I'm worried when the Government leaves so much responsibility to an authority like Mynak, who himself is being investigated for a poor working environment characterised by a high level of mental illness. I am even more worried when such an authority will investigate the great mental ill-health that we see growing in our country at quite high speed. What I mean by having a constructive dialogue, which I am grateful to the Government for highlighting, is that we need to review how the Social Insurance Agency's decision support is linked to psychiatric diagnoses, as seen from the fact that the decision support that exists today is not linked to such and definitely not linked to the co-morbidity that almost always comes with mental illness. This means that people with mental illness who have serious problems since the past have to fight even more because the Social Insurance Agency as a decision-making authority has inadequate decision support that means that these people do not get the sick leave that they might need. In addition, not enough demands have been made to provide resources to employers to enable them, for example, to see mental illness in their employees 90 days before they stand there. It would be the best possible for me, as an employer, to be given the resources to be able to see my employees before mental illness occurs and before they end up in a long-term sick leave. So there is an incredible amount more we can do to prevent mental illness. But I definitely don't trust that this will be investigated by an authority that has a high level of mental illness in its own operations.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-187	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm, for your speech and for your commitment to this issue! We will do everything we can to prevent ill health in the Swedish labour market. Many of those with professions that are largely affected by mental illness work in the public sector. It has to do with the working environment in the public sector. It has to do with the workload. This has to do with the under-financing of public welfare in our country and the understaffing of Swedish healthcare, in Swedish elderly care, in Swedish school, in Swedish police. The solution, at least the partial solution, to the problem of mental illness is to invest in improving the working environment and staffing in public activities. I hope that we can work together on this too. Then we must also invest financially in Swedish welfare. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm and also to Hans Rothenberg, whom I will next have an interpellation debate with regard to social insurance, our health insurance. I am pleased that there are Moderates in this House who dare to raise the issue of health insurance. That's not how it sounds on the Moderates when you read the Party's budget movements. Let me repeat what has been said by the Moderates in the budget motion which is now to be dealt with by this House. It wants to introduce a new Karen Day 15. This means that the first day after the end of the sick pay period is unpaid. The aim is to reintroduce the lower time limit in health insurance and to lower the ceiling of health insurance to 7.5 price base amounts. You want to scale down the compensation day 90 and day 365. They want to lower the compensation ceiling for unemployed people on sick leave. The Moderates state that the savings proposals in their budget exercise are aimed at financing tax reduction initiatives. Tax cuts will be financed with substantial savings on, cuts in and attacks on Swedish social security and health insurance. I therefore have reason to pay tribute, Madam President, to Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm and to every moderate who is prepared to stand in this House and say: No, I am opposed to my party leadership, which implemented parts of these proposals when the Moderates were responsible for social security in the days of Reinfeldt and Borg. I'm prepared to pay homage to every Moderate who does this. If we can reach out one hand to each other, leave Anders Borg's, Ulf Kristersson's and Fredrik Reinfeldt's line on these issues and agree that we should have a social security system that works for ordinary people, also for those with mental health problems, I am the first to work for collaboration in Swedish politics and to admit that there is courage in this house, also in the Moderate National Party when it comes to social security. Thank you for the interpellation and for raising this issue by the Member of Parliament.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-196	Madam President, I would like I have never before been so praised by a Social Democratic Minister. I think that is almost worth a round of applause, but that is not how we do things in this House. However, Madam President, I would like to put on record in capital letters that I am extremely grateful for the great tribute that I and my colleague Hans Rothenberg receive in this House. Försäkringskassan is a dysfunctional authority in this situation. They do not have the right instruments to deal with mental illness. But my entry into this is that we should avoid people ending up in the dysfunctional decision support of the Social Insurance Agency. We will provide tools for early detection of mental illness and so that we can – here I agree with the Government – provide supervisors and employees with tools to avoid mental illness. Those tools don't exist today. I therefore believe that we must ensure that the Social Insurance Agency has better tools. This is, of course, something we can do together, and I hope we can. I definitely accept the Government's extended hand in order to improve the tools and ensure that those who unfortunately end up in mental illness and sick leave in a much faster, better and more effective way can get the help they need. I believe that we need to monitor the psychosocial working environment in specific occupational groups in order to avoid mental illness. Since 2014, it has been the fastest growing diagnosis of sick leave, and 70 percent of those on sick leave with the diagnosis of mental illness are women – hence the big problem and my great commitment. I've worked for almost 30 years as a nurse, so I know exactly what I'm talking about. I see the challenges of increasing mental illness, and there we do not have the tools that are needed. If we have constructive dialogue and, of course, more resources for the public sector so that we can give it the right tools to combat mental illness, I can very well reach out and hope that we can implement strong measures and incentives to prevent mental illness.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-201	Madam President, I would like I am convinced that this dialogue may lead to concrete work in this House too in order to tackle the problems. The topic raised by Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm – work at workplaces to prevent mental illness – is very central. I think it is worth reading out some of what the Swedish Work Environment Authority is doing in this area right now, in the municipal sector: The Swedish Work Environment Authority has developed a strategy for the supervision of municipalities and regions in order for the supervision efforts to meet the right organisational level. During 2019, the agency will meet all municipalities and regions at political level to inform about the responsibility of politicians as employers and how health and safety legislation works. This will then be followed up in 2020 with sample inspections to find out how the annual follow-up to systematic work on health and safety at work is conducted. Yesterday I was in Sundsvall. Then, Madam President, I heard that the Swedish Work Environment Authority is therefore having a dialogue at political level on the conditions for those working in the municipal sector, where we see a worrying trend in terms of mental illness, not least among nurses. The Swedish Work Environment Authority is therefore making heroic efforts, and this is taken seriously. It combines a direct dialogue with the political leaders of every municipality and region in Sweden with inspections in 2020. That's the way to go. These issues have been discussed for a very long time. However, I believe that I and Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm are in complete agreement that, if things are to happen, the highest responsible for these questions must be held accountable, and the Swedish Work Environment Authority must be given the right resources. After that, however, we do not get to grips with the issue of staffing in the public sector. If you have too few nurses in a nursing home, you get a bad working environment. It's in the nature of things. If we are to improve the working environment, the nurses must have more colleagues. In practice, then, we must reach the agreement that exists on the right to full-time municipal work in the care of the elderly. Very positive is happening right now. But there must be concrete changes, and that requires politicians to take responsibility – not only politicians in this House but also politicians at the local and regional level. Much depends on our inspection authorities, in this case the Swedish Work Environment Authority, getting the right tools and methods to force a change work, which also follows from Swedish legislation.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-208	Madam President, I would like I do not believe that more resources are always the solution to mental illness. I think we should look at how the division of work and the working environment look at the workplace at all. Then it is not always more resources that are the solution to the problem. I certainly do not believe that the right to full time will solve the problem of mental illness, rather the opposite. Many of the women who work in school, health care and long-term care are unable to work full-time. If you have legislation that says you have to work full-time, we will see even higher figures in terms of mental illness, and that is not something I want to see. I believe that we need to think broadly, openly and jointly in order to find a solution so that mental illness is reduced, especially in health care, school and care. However, I strongly believe that constructive dialogue with both municipalities and regions must be established in order to reduce mental illness. Without it, the Government and I can make decisions and make laws on anything, and nothing will happen anyway.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-211	Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to thank Elisabeth Rahm, Björnsdotter, once again, for this important and constructive interpellation and dialogue, as well as for her commitment to this issue. We fully agree that more resources for welfare are not the only solution to this issue, but we can be quite sure that at least in Swedish elderly care there are too few people working. This leads to an excessive workload, which in turn affects the working environment of our nurses. This, in turn, means that they suffer from mental illness to a greater extent than other occupational groups. The right to full-time is a right, not an obligation. It must then be combined with a real opportunity to go full-time, and this presupposes that you have enough colleagues, a good working environment and a well-balanced workload. The state will have to do more in this area. We will need to step up work to improve the working environment, not least for the most vulnerable contact professions, where we have seen a worrying development. However, the parties do not escape their responsibilities. After all, they have signed agreements and commitments to work to improve the working environment and remove ill health. We will intensify the dialogue with the parties. We will also see to a greater extent how the parties present the real result, in reality, of the work that began when the government started the process. If more action is needed on the part of the state, we must take it. Then it is very good that there is this kind of dialogue and cooperation in the Riksdag. Thank you very much for this debate.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-215	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg has asked me what I and the government intend to do to make the social insurance systems for entrepreneurs better adapted to the reality of entrepreneurs. General social security has for a long time contributed to creating security and combating financial vulnerability. Our common systems must of course provide security even when you are an entrepreneur. Hans Rothenberg describes the situation where, after 180 days, entrepreneurs are advised to seek a new job. The government has set up the investigation A safe health insurance with people at the centre. The study will analyse, among other things, what matters when assessing what should be the specific reason for postponing the examination of the work capacity towards a normal job in the labour market. The government has also set up the report "Safer entrepreneurship in a changing working life – for growth and innovation", which presented its report on 13 September. The aim was to improve the conditions of social security schemes for entrepreneurs and to promote more secure entrepreneurship. The investigator will investigate, among other things, whether health insurance regulations need to be adapted to take into account the changing working life of entrepreneurs. The investigator would also investigate and decide whether the age limit of 55 years for entrepreneurs who run an individual firm, a commercial or a limited partnership is to be able to freely choose a withdrawal period in health insurance so as to remain, be increased or removed. The Swedish Parliament decided on 30 May 2018 in accordance with the Government proposal Strengthened insurance cover for students and entrepreneurs. As of 1 August 2018, the same protection applies during the construction phase, regardless of the form of the company. In addition, the general stage of construction is extended to 36 months. These changes have increased the security of those starting a new business. The Government's goal is for Sweden's entrepreneurs to have a social security system that at any given time makes self-employed people, small businesses and people who step in and out of the entrepreneurial role feel the same security as others. The government is continuously working to achieve the goal.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-220	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The image of entrepreneurs can vary depending on whose eyes you see with. But if it is something that entrepreneurs do, it is that they build values. Some believe that they are building the world, but above all they are building values for themselves. You take advantage of opportunities to realize your ideas and what you want to do with your life. But they also build values for the employees, who can get a safe, exciting and interesting job. Values for society are also being built. But with entrepreneurship there are opportunities and unfortunately also a great deal of concern. There is no one else who takes responsibility for what an entrepreneur, especially a small business owner, has to do. The entrepreneur's everyday life is different from that of many other people. Small entrepreneurs dominate Swedish entrepreneurship. A large part of Sweden's entrepreneurs, over 90 per cent, are small businesses. They have little margin and great responsibility. When the accident arrives and you become ill, injured or incapacitated, entrepreneurs are very vulnerable. Not only does one see one's own health fail, but one also risks seeing one's company fail. It'll be a double misery. An entrepreneur who falls under this premise cannot easily scale down his business or change his business. Entrepreneurs cannot change jobs the way an employee can. That is why I have written this interpellation, because this question is always equally important. Entrepreneurs have in many ways difficult conditions to fit into social insurance systems because they are built on the basis that employment is the norm. There are countless examples of entrepreneurs experiencing illness or accidents that mean that they are not able to work for a long time. Their business has to work anyway. When the entrepreneur falls into sick leave, the consequences can be dramatic. They will also be for their staff and their families. After 180 days of sick leave, it is not uncommon for these entrepreneurs of Försäkringskassan to be advised to apply for a new job. For some, it may mean that they have to lay down their entire life's work. Entrepreneurs who build values and create jobs for other people are in many ways neglected in social insurance systems. This issue is constantly on the agenda. I came into Parliament for – well, now it's a long time ago. This was one of the first questions I began to get involved in. The Alliance raised the issues. The systems were developed. At the time, the Social Democrats were not a direct driver, but it was for another decade. These are questions that need to be constantly under the hood. Thank you for your answers. I think it is good that the government has produced investigations and that the investigations have made good proposals. I note the Minister's ambition to pay constant attention to these issues, but I would still like to draw him out a little bit: what is it in the investigative proposals that the Minister feels that we can build on and that he wants to write a proposal on? These are answers for which Sweden's current and future small businesses would be very grateful.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-228	Madam President, I would like I would, of course, like to thank Mr Rothenberg for his commitment to social security issues. It is not least a question of taking into account the conditions of entrepreneurs in our social security policies. As I said, there is reason to welcome when a moderate Member of Parliament stands up in this House and defends social security, given that the House will shortly take a decision on the budget bill. There is a moderate budget motion – I will read it again – proposing the introduction of a new Karen Day at day 15. This means that the first day after the end of the sick leave period is unpaid. It is proposed to reintroduce the lower time limit in health insurance and lower the ceiling in health insurance to 7.5 price base amounts. It proposes a reduction in the remuneration of day 90 and day 365 and a reduction in the compensation ceiling for unemployed people on sick leave. Madam President, I would like It doesn't matter what I or the government think about the investigations that will shortly be presented on these proposals going through in the Chamber, because then we go back to the order that Ulf Kristersson, Fredrik Reinfeldt, Anders Borg and the alliance government that sat between 2006 and 2014 stood for – with severe deterioration of our social security and severe deterioration for the sick. I am prepared to pay tribute to every moderate Member of Parliament who stands up and wants to improve social insurance, for that is what we are going to do. There are shortcomings in the current system, not least in relation to the group of entrepreneurs. I will answer Mr Rothenberg's question. We have an important investigation coming on January 31st. The investigation is a direct consequence of the deterioration carried out by the bourgeois government in 2006 and 2014 and which the Moderates once again wish to carry out. It is about the examination of normal work. It is a test that puts some people in a difficult position relatively early in comparison with previous regulations. The investigation shall examine the application, and if the investigation finds that there are grounds for amending the legislation, the investigation has a mandate to propose legislative changes. We will of course take this work very seriously, because, of course, like Mr Rothenberg, we want to ensure that people have good protection when they get sick. But my question goes back to Hans Rothenberg. That is a reasonable question to which the audience and the Swedish people should have an answer. Hans Rothenberg wants to improve health insurance and fight for entrepreneurs to be better integrated into our health insurance. Is Mr Rothenberg prepared to vote against the moderate budgetary motion, which proposes a major deterioration in health insurance? Nevertheless, there is a personal responsibility in this House. Does Hans Rothenberg have the will to go against Ulf Kristersson, the moderate party leadership and the moderate parliamentary group that has presented a budget motion that is the hardest battle against Swedish health insurance since Ulf Kristersson was Minister of Social Security? The question must be answered so that people know what is happening in this House.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-235	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the rhetorical display! It was exciting. To praise, beat up and change the subject along the way means that the debate becomes much more dynamic. With regard to the social security adjustments that are general and supported by the Moderates, the Government does not need to be concerned. I will stick to the button the other Moderates press. The changes that are taking place there are not close to the everyday lives of entrepreneurs and small businesses in terms of health insurance and social security. I can tell you a story about Peter the sooter, who fell off a roof. It was a workplace accident. Because he was an entrepreneur, he wasn't in the union. He did not have a safety representative who took advantage of his interests. He broke both his legs. His few employees in the small company depended on his functioning. He was disabled during the 180 days of health insurance. He didn't get any health insurance. He had to go down heavily in payroll. How, then, could the seven employees manage the company? Well, Peter rolled into a wheelchair sometime a week and made sure that the invoices were paid. When he arrived at Försäkringskassan, he was recommended to take a job. That was the recommendation in today's Sweden, in reality. Thus, the authority and the people who are set to help people who have problems with their health and injuries call on an entrepreneur to close down his business and take a job. It is the same as saying: Dismiss your seven employees, with all the consequences that it entails for them, their families and their children! I'm not going to tell that story any more sobs. But perhaps we have both now shown some rhetorical flexibility and curiosity. These are issues that are very serious. We all want more companies. We want people to dare do something that goes beyond the comfort zone. Starting a business is completely different from taking a job. That's throwing yourself out on slippery ice, often in the headwind. But it also means freedom and opportunities. In this context, it is important to feel a certain degree of security. This security does not know entrepreneurs and small businesses today. It is a much more difficult and tougher situation than the nudity of the Government's view of the moderate proposals on how health insurance should work in general. I would like to get the Government to answer a little bit in the next post: What is it in these investigations that the Government feels is most tickling? What is it that could become a bill? What is it that Sweden's small businesses can look forward to for their safety, once the accident has arrived, to be better in the future than it is today?
i-6EUzL8pztF6TrJJSB5tHms	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi, Minister Anders Ygeman and Minister Lena Micko. Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-243	Madam President, I would like Over the last few days, we have been able to see how six people who have all been sentenced to expulsion have been released because the expulsions cannot be carried out. Unfortunately, it is not just any person but persons who are deemed by the Swedish Security Service to pose a threat to national security. In this group, there is even a person who has been convicted of terrorist crime in the past. I think that a lot of people in our country, including myself, are asking themselves how it can really be done in this way. Why is it that people who are deemed to be security threats are still free to move in streets and squares? Even more peculiar is the fact that the problems are not new. As early as March 2017, the Swedish Security Service alerted the problem. Nevertheless, it took a year and a half for the government to take any action, and new legislation still seems to be several years ahead. How, Ibrahim Baylan, do you explain this recurring inaction on matters of national security?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-247	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Forssell, for the question! We do not want them here, and that is why the government lands in the same conclusion as the Security Service does. However, Johan Forssell knows very well that when a court, in this case the Migration Court of Appeal, finds that there are enforcement obstacles, the government cannot review this. Why do we not have another system of things? That is exactly what the government is now doing: looking through this and developing new regulations. Johan Forssell pretends that he does not know that this is the order we have. I could ask the corresponding question: for eight years the Moderates led the government of this country. Why didn't the Moderates make an ounce to change this order that we are now changing?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-249	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, although it was not really much of a response. Who was in charge when the Swedish Security Service sounded the alarm in March 2017? The answer to that question is, I believe, very well known to the Minister for Economic Affairs. In addition, it has now been established that the government not only waited a year and a half to take any action; the directives for the investigation that has been set up do not even address the situation of being able to place persons for whom expulsion cannot be carried out in custody. How is this even possible?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-252	Madam President, I would like That's not a proper description. We've set up an investigation to review the regulations. Of course, it is also about how we can prevent individuals who cannot deport from moving freely anyway. We will have proposals in March 2020, that is, in a few months' time. Of course the question remains: If this is so urgent, and it is, why did the Moderates never do anything? Now you take the opportunity to try to score cheap points in a situation when we really should work together to change the system of things.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-254	Madam President, I would like Over the years, the Swedish government has allowed a great deal of Islamic extremists into our country. The security police are doing their utmost to keep track of these individuals and in some cases use the Special Alien Control Act to expel foreigners who pose a threat of terror. This law is full of flaws that the Swedish Democrats alone have tried to remedy in this assembly. The government has always voted against. One shortcoming is that the law does not allow people who pose a threat of terrorism to be kept in custody until they can be expelled. As a result, we must now release such people freely into society. Why, Ibrahim Baylan, is it so important for the government to defend a law that leads to the release into society of foreigners who pose a terrorist threat and a threat to national security rather than being detained? What are you counting on these individuals to contribute to their freedom in our country?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-258	Madam President, I would like We don't want these individuals in this country. That's why the government has landed in the same conclusion as the Security Service. However, the fact that a court finds that there are enforcement obstacles makes it impossible to review it. That is the legal order we have in our country, as Adam Marttinen well knows. The government is working on two things. One is to remove these enforcement barriers so that we can expel them. The second is to change the laws so that we have more tools when it comes to these kinds of dangerous individuals. Madam President, I would like Let me also say on a personal level that I find it tragic. These are individuals that Sweden has received in the same way that Sweden has received me and my parents, and they devote their lives to this. It's shameful! It is clear that we can remove the enforcement barriers that exist, these people will also be out of the country.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-261	Madam President, I would like This is not satisfactory. These people have been released because there is a longer time limit for enforcement in the law defended by the Social Democrats in government. Year after year, it has been considered that this law has been well balanced as it is. Now you have released people who pose a threat of terror freely on our streets, because you have considered that the law has been well balanced as it is. Are you going to remove the extra time limit for enforcement, or are you going to continue to release terrorists freely among our citizens in our country?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-263	I would like to remind you once again that we are not duking or niaring each other in this House, but speaking through the President.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-264	Madam President, I would like We want to change the law. That is why we have an investigation that is in place and is producing just such proposals and is due to present them in March 2020. The situation is so serious that I think this type of attempt to score party political points is rather petty. What we need to do together is to change the system of things so that these kinds of dangerous individuals can be kept when they cannot be expelled. That is a position that I think we should all have.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-266	Madam President, I would like Diabetes type 1 is a disease that very much affects the lives of children affected. Without proper treatment with constant insulin injections, those affected die. There is also a risk of both acute and future complications with insulin therapy. Blood sugar levels need to be checked many times each day. Insulin doses need to be calculated taking into account a number of factors. It is a responsibility that children cannot and should not have to take, but it must be done by knowledgeable adults. At present, parents are not entitled to compensation for the time they give up work to transfer this knowledge of the treatment of type 1 diabetes to staff in preschool, school or fritis. Of course, leaving your children there without that competence is not an option. My question to Minister Shekarabi is whether it is possible to allow these parents to be entitled to temporary parental allowance in order to transfer the skills to the staff concerned.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-270	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Qarlsson, for this important issue that we have to deal with together! Temporary parental allowance could previously be provided to parents with chronically ill children so that they could instruct staff at school about the child's self-care, among other things. However, a new legal interpretation by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has put an end to this. We are following this very closely and looking at how the problem can best be solved as soon as possible. This is an important issue for us, and we will work together with the Riksdag to deal with this.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-271	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. Research from Örebro University shows that many of the parents who have children with diseases like this are more stressed and are more affected by burnout. This is not just about the safety of children and the possibility of them being able to stay in school, but also about the parents' situation that exists within the same system. Is there any possibility of taking initiatives that will speed things up?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-272	Madam President, I would like Yes, we will work on this as soon as possible. I would also like to emphasise that the parties behind the January agreement agree that family week should be introduced. This means that each parent will have three more days to leave with his or her child. It has many positive effects. Children and parents are getting closer, which is important. It also creates flexible opportunities in specific situations where there is a need for parents to be with their children.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-273	Madam President, I would like The payment of sickness benefit has decreased from 2006 to 2019 from 44 billion to 37 billion, despite an increase in the population. However, the greatest reduction during this period has been made to the sickness benefit for the long - term sick. There, payments have been halved from just over 87 billion to only 43 billion today. Of course, not everyone has suddenly become healthy, but instead, for example, people who have chronic pain diseases or cancer sufferers are told that they are going to work instead and are referred to Arbetsförmedlingen. In the past, Arbetsförmedlingen has found that people who have been rejected by Försäkringskassan are not at all healthy enough to work, but now the Arbetsförmedlingen is in a chaotic situation. Sick people can end up in long queues. In the end, it is to the municipalities' social welfare offices that they can come.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-276	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Gabrielsson, for this important question! One of the most important tasks I have received from the Prime Minister is to ensure that we protect health insurance and create health insurance that offers the citizens the security they are entitled to. The injuries suffered by the bourgeois government between 2006 and 2014 still affect people today. Therefore, an investigation is currently under way looking at the issue of sickness benefit. The investigation will make its proposal on 31 January. We will work very intensively on these proposals. The task is to strengthen health insurance and ensure that no person falls between the chairs. There is no reason to wave away or laugh away these issues, as some Members are doing now. Real people are affected and falling between the seats, and it is the task of politics – the government and this House – to ensure that health insurance works. That is why we also say no to the moderate savings proposals that will be dealt with by this Parliament.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-279	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Ardalan Shekarabi! The government has had time and had a period before to fix this, but from the viewpoint of the Left Party they have not been very interested. Today we are seeing the chaotic development of the Employment Service. That is why I am even more concerned about the progress of this group, which is currently ill but which, regardless of which government we have had, is not entitled to sickness benefit.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-281	Madam President, I would like More remains to be done. This applies, in particular, to the examination of insured persons in relation to normal work. That is why we have an investigation, which will present its proposal as early as 31 January. A lot of things have been done, however. Above all, we have removed the precipice. This House will vote on the reintroduction of the headstock, a proposal which the Moderates have put forward through their budgetary motion. We say no to this and we stand by the fact that the precipice should never have been introduced in our country.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-283	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Ibrahim Baylan. We are now entering a recession, and at the same time there is chaos at Arbetsförmedlingen. Employment services have almost 8 billion in administrative appropriations, but people who are far from the labour market receive less help and unemployment increases. The matching actors who, according to the new reform planned by the government, are to take over large parts of Arbetsförmedlingen's work are strangely no longer receiving any assignments from Arbetsförmedlingen. 52 such local offices that support matching have therefore been closed down. In addition, the Director-General, in his own wisdom, has for several years planned to close down 130 local employment services. This means that every other place is without job support. This is serious. The union is protesting. But the Prime Minister says in the media that it's cool and that you shouldn't do anything rash.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-287	Madam President, I would like Désirée Pethrus is a serious and good member of the Swedish Parliament. I am therefore very surprised that this question comes from a Christian Democrat Member. For now we are ashamed of dry land. Why is the situation as it is at Arbetsförmedlingen? Last winter, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, together with the Swedish Democrats in this House, voted through a budget that is still largely valid. It meant huge cuts in the country's employment services. That is what is being done. What have we in the government done? We have provided additional resources for next year in order to mitigate these effects. That's the way it is. As a government, we take and should always take responsibility for people to have access to Arbetsförmedlingen all over the country. But when you, as a Christian Democrat, abuse something that you have caused yourself, you are ashamed of dry land.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-290	Madam President, I would like I knew the government would say exactly this, but this is a falsarium and a diversion. We pulled down by 5%, and that would happen with natural departures. The Christian Democrats have not proposed closing the local offices. That's what the Director General already said in 2015 that he would do. We have not said to stop buying services from private operators. That has been decided by the Director-General. The government therefore needs to take responsibility. Now give us an answer: what are you doing about this?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-292	Madam President, I would like The government is providing additional resources in the budget that we agree on together with the Center Party and the Liberals. It also means that we will enter into a reform process, but this has not yet begun. The reason for what we are seeing right now is the many billions that the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats withdrew from the business to use instead for tax cuts. This is the truth and can be read about in the budget that went through in the Riksdag last December. It's not something you can just wave away.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-295	Madam President, I would like From all the studies that have characterized the planning of the electricity trader's centrisk model, the criticism has been stacked on high. It concerns personal integrity, substantial additional costs for customers, increased credit risk to market players and security. In fact, the structures of the energy market have changed drastically over the last ten years. To now carry out a restructuring of the electricity market without beneficial effects is not to create good conditions.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-297	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Arman Teimouri, for the question! We will, of course, listen to the consultation bodies. However, the consultation bodies for the electricity traders' centre model are predominantly positive, not predominantly negative as Arman Teimouri claims. Moreover, this model is based on the decision taken by the previous bourgeois government, together with the governments of the other Nordic countries, when the common road map was drawn up. I am, of course, prepared to discuss this model with the parties that have been involved in drawing up the guidelines for it, but to leave it at present I have no plans.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-299	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is, of course, a decision that was taken about ten years ago. A great deal has happened in the electricity market during these years. Above all, we can now see security aspects with threats from other countries. This could pose a security threat to Sweden. We also need to have a clearer focus when looking at climate targets, etc. To go from two invoices to one invoice I do not see as a reasonable way to go.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-302	Madam President, I would like I think that Arman Teimouri confuses two things: the electrical merchant-centric model and the hub that Swedish power networks have been commissioned to develop. The criticism that has existed against the hub has partly concerned the Swedish Armed Forces and partly the Swedish Data Protection Authority. In the latter case, the criticism concerns GDPR, as this did not exist when the proposal was drawn up. In the previous case, there are problems with certain installations. Both of these things will, of course, be taken care of by the government before any proposal is put on the table of Parliament.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-304	Madam President, I would like A little while ago, I spoke to my mother Gunnel, who is 81 years old, to find out what she has retired. She has 10 060 kroner; this is what she gets out. She's not unique except, of course, that she's my mother. She's not unique when it comes to the pension envelope. Many women have a very low pension. There are also many women who will have a low pension. Many are concerned, both those who are pensioners now and those who will leave a long working life. My wish would be that everyone could feel a sense of security when they are about to end their working life. I wonder how Minister Ardalan Shekarabi is dealing with this issue. And how will he and the government, both at present and in the long term, create the security that we want pensioners to have?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-308	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carina Ohlsson, for this important question! We have a well-functioning, sustainable and robust pension system. The problem is that pensions are too low. The point of a pension system is to offer people security after retirement – to offer a pension that you can live on well and which corresponds to 70 per cent of the final salary. That is why we are working to increase pensions in several steps in the coming years. As early as 1 January, the guarantee pension and the ceiling of the housing supplement will be increased in accordance with the pension agreement. We then move on and raise pensions during 2021 for broad employee groups that have worn out their entire working lives. They deserve higher pensions, and this will be implemented through a pension supplement in accordance with the January agreement. We are also working on a review of pension contributions. It is no secret that we on the part of the Social Democrats want to raise them.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-313	Madam President, I would like It should be noted, as the Government pointed out, that you have gone through a long working life. But that's not what's happening right now. Then you might ask yourself, Madam President: how long can you wait for this? This applies to people who already today are concerned that in some year's time they will retire and need to work longer, but still do not see that they will receive a good pension.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-315	Madam President, I would like The guarantee pension will be increased on 1 January 2020 and the ceiling of the housing supplement will be raised to SEK 7 000. In 2021, the pension supplement shall be implemented, in accordance with the January agreement, which means an average increase of SEK 600 per month for broad employee groups who have worked for a full professional life. They need to get a higher pension. Retirement must be marked by the fact that you have worked and worked a full working life. This is an obligation we have towards our pensioners and future pensioners.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-316	Madam President, I would like Economic inequality is taking off at the birth of the first child. Today, we have more and more fathers present in Sweden who take full parental responsibility, but women still take the vast majority of parental leave during the first two years of their lives. Financial incentives to share equally with parental insurance have so far proved ineffective to offset withdrawals. What has been shown to work is that additional months are reserved for each parent.
i-6ennZQxTY4o64NB9rbZKY6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Hirvonen Falk, for the question! Equal parenthood is crucial for equality in our country. It is also crucial for equal pensions, which we have just discussed. We will continue to work on this issue. We can see that the third month reserved, which was introduced in 2016, has been effective, as have other reservations. We have given an assignment to Försäkringskassan to work with However, we still have the legislative issue. We have suggestions on our table. It has so far been assessed that there has not been a majority in the Swedish Parliament to push through these proposals, but we are prepared to work with the parties in the Riksdag to find a solution so that we can get an even more modern, better and more equal parental insurance. This is a step that should be taken by this House. There is a need for cross-party cooperation here.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-323	Madam President, I would like I find it completely incomprehensible how we in this House can stand and be satisfied that those who have the greatest financial vulnerability – students, newcomers and those who are unemployed – do not have the same expectations of shared parenthood as for the vast majority of people in this society.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-325	Madam President, I would like This proposal was put on the table of Parliament during the last parliamentary term, and it fell into the vote in this House. However, we intend to resume talks with the political parties, and if we consider that there is an opportunity to push through in whole or in part the proposals put forward by the parental insurance inquiry, we will not hesitate to cooperate with the parties and push this through.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-327	Madam President, I would like Soon everything will be available on the internet. This is in many ways good, and it can, properly used, save both time and resources for individual consumers. But if we turn the perspective a little, we see a growing number of examples that many goods cannot be bought in a regular store. The customer is referred either to the store's or the business chain's own internet trade or to a growing number of pure online retailers. Madam President, I would like On this point, I would like to ask how the Minister for Consumer Affairs views this development. I would also like to know how the Government sees the difficulties that people without computers and computer habits can experience when the physically tangible range of business in this way decreases. Not least many elderly people are affected. In short, does the Government have a plan to counteract these undesirable consequences?
i-8GS2gHh2PHBX4GSXmGBZSX	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Jilmstad, for the question! This is, of course, an issue that really has a civic perspective. As Lars Jilmstad describes, many people are concerned about this. The government is following this issue. One can think about what will be the responsibility of commerce and what is the interest of consumers. As a minister, I also see a great need for us to cooperate with the consumer movement on this issue. This is something that I, as a new minister, think we need to get into a little more.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-334	Madam President, I would like Also for the computerized consumer there are disadvantages to this development. It has many advantages but also disadvantages. I have personal experience of how a small item that cost 50 SEK in a construction chain online store required an order of at least 300 SEK. That's what they said. At the competitor it was possible to buy it, but then SEK 100 was added in picking fee.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-337	Madam President, I would like I can answer Lars Jilmstad that I do not think I am familiar with every detail of this transaction. But I definitely think that this is an issue that the Consumer Authority and other consumer organisations should pay attention to. I hope we will have a further discussion on this issue.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-339	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. This morning I received an email from a woman named Marie. She has written a letter to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. She wants to tell you how it feels to end up between the chairs, to get sick, not to get well, to always be sad, to want to give up, not to get sick pay, not to get taken away from everything, to appeal and appeal, to always get no, no from the Social Insurance Agency, to be less worthy and to be sentenced to poverty because you can't get well. I hope that Minister Shekarabi will read the letter, and I hope that Minister Shekarabi will listen to all those who suffer in Sweden because of the inhumane insurance policies. Recently, a light manifestation was carried out in Sweden, where it has even gone so far that people have taken their own lives because they have been insured.
i-4G2zr5EzSSQT56pbLzXw9q	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Julia Kronlid, for the question! This issue is a top priority for the government. We will do what we can to strengthen health insurance and increase the security of health insurance. One of the most important tasks I have from my boss, the Prime Minister, is to work to ensure that no one falls between the chairs. However, there is one group that we should not listen to, and they are the ones who want to reintroduce the precipice, Madam President. This House, through Swedish Democrats, Moderates, Christian Democrats, Liberals and Center Partyists, has voted for an announcement that we should reintroduce the backlog of health insurance – put an end to health insurance! The Swedish Democrats have participated in this decision. Julia Kronlid wants us to restore the precipice? That is absolutely not what this government wants.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-347	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. Yes, it is true that we voted in favour of a general motion on the rehabilitation chain – there it was as a part – as a criticism of the government's extremely bad policy, leaving people to their fate. But now we have developed our own policy and today we say no to re-establishing the precipice. During last year's motion for a resolution here, the Moderates made a proposal. We did not support the proposal. When we vote this year on the reintroduction of the headstock, we will also vote against it. We have taken on board the criticism and do not support the reintroduction of the precipice.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-350	Madam President, I would like This was an interesting message given that this Parliament has decided on an announcement, supported by the Swedish Democrats, with the mission to the government to reintroduce the precipice. The government has made it very clear that the precipice is damaging the insured. Our task is to strengthen health insurance, to provide greater security to the insured and to ensure that no one falls between the chairs. Then you don't need a strewn, my friends.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-353	Madam President, I would like The municipal levelling system is good. There is, of course, to create some kind of equality between municipalities and county councils in order to have a service of high quality, regardless of what tax you have in the municipality, where you live geographically or what kind of population base there is. We all know that many rural municipalities are on their knees, not least in my own county of Västerbotten. In order to even out some of the differences, the government set up an investigation that produced proposals for a redistribution in the cost equalisation part, i.e. the smaller part of the equalisation system. The study put forward a proposal to increase the number of rural municipalities. But what happened was that when the proposal was out for a referral, the government put forward a proposal that these municipalities should receive less. How could that be? Had the rural municipalities been overcompensated? Is that what the government thought because it made another proposal?
i-PXufFhfQtDUYwszX2k8ZKY	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Lindahl, for the question! The entire levelling-up system has indeed been in need of change, as it is old parameters that it has been about. I think that the proposal put forward by the government represents a major change in relation to what it has looked like in the past. We have brought in new, important changes that have to do with a current situation regarding, for example, adult education, socio-economic factors and more. On the other hand, one should be aware that it does not solve all the problems. Since the investigation presented its proposal, it has been very important to achieve implementation quickly, on 1 January. I think this is a step along the way. Then more needs to be done.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-359	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Now they have looked at a small part of the equalization system. I would like to ask whether the government is prepared to review the whole, that is to say also the income equalisation component, which is the largest part. That would certainly be necessary, for there is a great injustice built up there. Today Malmö alone receives more compensatory payments than the 52 smallest rural municipalities combined. Malmö actually recorded a profit of 921 million last year. Is that really right?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-362	Madam President, I would like My answer is that we are doing some things now, and it is important to ensure that it is implemented. Then, of course, further work is needed on what else needs to be done. There is a need to look more closely at general state subsidies. Of course, the government is aware that there are other parts of the system that need to be discussed. When and how we're going to do that, we'll have to get back to.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-364	Madam President, I would like It is indeed the crisis of the municipalities, it is the crisis of the regions and it is the crisis of prosperity. Every day, patients can tell about the long sex to the surgery that the doctor has assessed they need. And every day the welfare staff can tell us about the lack of colleagues and the severe ethical dilemmas that arise when time needs to be used more to arrange gender than to give care to patients. Through the budget adopted by the Riksdag, following proposals from KD and M, healthcare received 4 billion more for 2019. It is money that is necessary to cope with health care. But when more than ten months of the year have passed, only a small part of it has reached the regions. It is money that is needed to cope with welfare, and yet it has not reached out.
i-UbMm1FmSmsRoUw48TM7Rwx	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ankarberg Johansson, for the question! It is very important that decisions on resources, although we have comments that there was too little money from M and KD in the budget, are made through agreements between municipalities and regions and in this case especially regions and the state. It is very much a partnership. I understand that there is agreement on how the focus should be and that the funds should come out when they should.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-368	Madam President, I would like It is strange that the Minister of Civil Affairs does not know that there was 4 billion more to health care than the government put in the budget. You have retained the same money in the budget that you have presented. It fully follows the plan that we from KD and M laid out. I am grateful for that, because it contributes to more money. But I don't understand how the government can be pleased that it takes so long to get the money out. I believe that we need to change our position and ensure that we get the money to the regions and municipalities more quickly, so that they have better planning conditions than they have this year.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-369	Madam President, I would like In terms of funding for the regions, there are both general state subsidies and targeted agreements. Here, much more money has been distributed during the term of office than in the budget described by Acko Ankarberg. At the same time, it is multiannual agreements, and these have also been about updating agreements. Let me emphasise, however, that it is the parties who must agree on this, and then there are two parties.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-371	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anders Ygeman. Yesterday we had a seminar in Parliament when we discussed the high-level broadband targets and what needs to be done to achieve them. There are a few different suggestions. Should it be done via fiber, wireless or in combination? We came to the conclusion that more money is needed. However, as one cost mentioned is SEK 22 billion and another is SEK 46 billion, it is a bit difficult for us to think about what to do.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-375	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Denis for the question. Sweden has the largest broadband coverage in the EU. According to the latest EU statistics, Sweden is in first place because 86% of the population has high-speed connectivity in their immediate vicinity. With that, we beat all other EU countries, and we are particularly good in sparsely populated areas. But the government is not satisfied. We have higher ambitions. Therefore, at the beginning of next year, we will develop new broadband support, and in the budget that is on Parliament's table, we will increase the funding significantly by hundreds of millions of SEK in new broadband initiatives.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-378	Madam President, I would like I have heard that 89% can already be reached. However, I meet quite a few people out in the country who do not get broadband even though there is a sign that broadband will soon come.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-381	Madam President, I would like There are those who have ordered broadband but have not received it despite years of waiting. The government places tough demands on suppliers and does not pay out a single krona if the customer has not got broadband connected. We are also prepared to take other measures if suppliers fail to meet their obligations to customers.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-383	Madam President, I would like The key to a thriving industry in Sweden with goods and services that can flow quickly and smoothly is efficient transport. Today, unfortunately, we see major shortcomings in the Swedish infrastructure. When trains do not go on time and flights are cancelled, you choose to send your goods by truck instead. This has a negative impact on our climate, and we will not be able to meet the 70% reduction target for transport emissions. A good infrastructure is also crucial for our elongated and sparsely populated country to have growing companies. A hub for international and national trade is Bromma airport. I therefore ask the Minister for Economic Affairs: Has the government calculated what the consequences for Swedish companies will be if Bromma is closed down and with that a lot of Swedish routes?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-387	Madam President, I would like I thank Åsa Coenraads for the question. Both our flights, whether at Arlanda Airport, Bromma or our regional airports, as well as our road and rail networks are central. Just as Åsa Coenraads describes, Sweden focuses on exports. Many of our companies produce almost exclusively for export because the domestic market is so small. Over the past five years, the government has increased investment in both infrastructure and maintenance. That is not enough; we will also have to make new investments. It is against this background that the government, for example, wants to build new main rail lines for the railway network. This is something that the Moderates were first against, then for and now against again, which creates uncertainty. There's Bromma Airport. There is now a discussion about the future of aviation at both Bromma and Arlanda, and this discussion needs to land in something long-term for both business and citizens.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-391	Madam President, I would like Over the past few months and weeks, there have been slightly different messages from various government ministers about whether to keep or close Bromma airport. This has consequences for Swedish business. Has the government calculated what the consequences for business and industry will be if Bromma airport is closed down?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-393	Madam President, I would like There are different calculations on flights and the demand for them. As always, however, reality deviates from the forecast. Many forecasts have pointed to increased flying, but in reality fewer and fewer are flying on domestic routes, for example. It is important that we have a well-functioning infrastructure, and the best thing would be if we could have a broad consensus and create the security and security that business and citizens need, whether it be road, rail or air.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-395	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Ibrahim Baylan. This weekend was one of the world's largest computer festivals, Blizzcon. As usual, it took place in the United States. However, the way Blizzard acted in the case of Blitzchung, which expressed sympathy with Hong Kong, was a major factor in the construction. How does the government view the situation that has arisen, and how would the government have acted if this had been a Swedish company or if it had happened on Swedish soil, for example in connection with Dreamhack?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-398	Madam President, I would like This was a specific issue for a specific company. I can honestly admit that I am not familiar with this case, nor have I seen anything about it in the media. I understand that Rickard Nordin knows about this because he has been involved in e-sports for a long time and is familiar with it. As far as standing up for democratic rights and freedoms is concerned, there is no doubt that the Swedish government always does. People should be able to express themselves without fear of reprisals from governments, companies or individual citizens. But I do not know about this particular case.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-401	Madam President, I would like I think we can all see in front of us the image of Tommie Smith and John Carlos at the 1968 Olympic Games in Mexico as they raise their hand in protest against American racial oppression. This is exactly the same thing. Does the Minister think that individual companies can punish athletes for their political views? This is not a narrow question or an individual occasion, but it has happened repeatedly throughout history.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-403	Madam President, I would like As I said, I do not know the specific case. But Sweden is undoubtedly always standing up for human rights and freedoms, and so is the Swedish government.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-405	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister for Energy and Digitalization Anders Ygeman. We see increased electrification in society, and there are also new demands on society. Although Sweden has large electricity surpluses, there are local and regional capacity challenges, especially in Stockholm but also in Malmö. The government has taken the issue seriously and recently presented an initiative with the energy industry to increase investment in electricity grids while reducing electricity grid prices. That sounds almost too good. I myself live in a municipality where the electricity grid price has increased by 40 per cent since 2014. My question is therefore: have we now overcome both the regional capacity challenges and the high electricity grid prices for Sweden's electricity grid customers?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-409	Madam President, I would like In any case, we have come a bit along the way, in that the electricity grid companies say that they can now connect to all the customers they have on offer until 2030. That is good news. Electricity grid companies have also promised a majority of customers reduced prices. I'm glad to hear that. And they have promised increased investments in the electricity grids. I'm glad to hear that. It is a breakthrough that we can have both increased investment and lower prices for electricity grid consumers. Now I hope that we can continue to work with the industry and with this House to create long-term conditions that reward investments in electricity networks and reasonable costs for consumers. Since it is a monopoly market, tough policies are needed to ensure that we have both a good level of investment and a good price level.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-411	Madam President, I would like This is encouraging news from Minister Ygeman. The next step in this social transformation of the electricity grid system is largely based on infrastructure investments. They tend to take a long time. As far as electricity networks are concerned, we are talking about maybe ten to twelve years to get to these.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-414	Madam President, I would like My view and that of the government is that we must have proposals that cut not months but years in these processes. Before the summer, we also referred proposals to cut the lead times for the construction of new core and regional network lines. Here too, I think we need new proposals. In order to cut times, we need to do more on the part of both government and county boards and municipalities. This is the background to the fact that we have commissioned the county boards of a number of counties in Sweden to return with new measures and proposals.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-417	Madam President, I would like Since the appointment of Minister of Social Security Shekarabi, we have heard several times, most recently today in this House, the Minister promises increased pensions for those with the lowest pension, in addition to what is agreed in the Pensions Group. The rule is that we in the Pensions Group should agree on the changes to be made. This is not something we have decided on. The strange thing is that the government has not chosen to reduce the tax rate for the very group with the lowest pensions, but has chosen, as of 1 January, to reduce the tax on pensioners by over 17 000 in retirement, contrary to its promises. We Moderates would have reduced the tax for all pensioners if we had the power, which would have given several hundred crowns more in the wallet from New Year's. My question to the Government is therefore: how can the Minister promise increased pensions when it is not decided in the Pensions Group and when the tax rate for the group of pensioners with the lowest incomes is not even reduced?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-420	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Katarina Brännström, for the question that I regard as a matter of fact-finding. Pensions shall be increased on 1 January. It is a decision that Katarina Brännström herself, rightly, is involved in. The guarantee pension shall be increased on 1 January. The ceiling in the housing supplement shall be raised on 1 January. We do so together with the pension agreement – I think I mentioned this last day. That's how we're supposed to work. Together, we're going to raise our pensions. It is therefore also important that we continue to have a discussion on how we can continue to raise pensions. As regards the pensioner's tax, which was introduced during the bourgeois years, the government's attitude is that it is an unjust tax. We remove the pensioner's tax step by step. Let's take another step. The entire pensioner's tax is to be abolished.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-424	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Ibrahim Baylan. This government continues to present legislative proposals that complicate this for Sweden's 600 000 law-abiding, responsible arms owners. Now the government also wants to introduce licensing on magazines. It is not the legal weapons that our hunters and sportsmen have that are the problem. Yet it is they who are to be put to work. Wouldn't it be better if the government focused on measures to get to the illegal weapons, the weapons actually used by the criminal gangs? Has the government seen a big problem with bad criminals running around with magazines for hunting weapons? If this is not the case, it is incomprehensible that we should spend time and energy on this, rather than making sure that we have effective border controls and legislation in place to tackle the problems we do have.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-428	Madam President, I would like This government has made more changes precisely in tightening the penalties for gun crimes than anyone else in the past. It's starting to notice. There's more people going down for gun crimes. If you have a sharp-loaded weapon on you, for example when the police take you, you cannot, as under the bourgeois government, freely leave jail. You're automatically arrested. That's good. Let's take the next step. Why are these magazines so important? Because the police believe that this is a problem, not in the case of hunters and sportsmen, but precisely in the case of the criminal gangs that exist. Then, as a responsible government and as a responsible House, we must follow this. We're not gonna play populists against the hunters. This isn't directed at them. It's against crime.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-430	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Civil Affairs Lena Micko. I would like to highlight the citizens' perspective and the role of individual employees and leaders in the various contexts of the state administration. When I visit government agencies, works or government companies, I often meet employees who emphasize their own responsibilities and pride in being representatives of the state in their professional role. Recently, what is known as the Trust Delegation handed over a 300-page report on governance in the state administration. It presents lessons from the authorities' work on so-called trust-based governance and management, and proposes how to continue development. One proposal concerns the task of the Swedish Employers' Agency to establish support for state authorities and another to establish a government-led development environment, as it is called. Knowledge and skills development are particularly highlighted. How does the Minister of Civil Affairs view the mission of the Trust Delegation? And what initiatives are to be expected in the future?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-434	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, for an important question! This is about government governance at all and how important it is that we take advantage of the employees' knowledge and role in governance and at the same time that the state is clear about roles and orientation. The report submitted points, among other things, to the importance of introductory training for state employees. It is a mission that will continue to be pursued. It will be reported in May next year. At the same time, I can see that the work of the Trust Delegation is closely linked to other issues that are relevant in the management policy and which relate to how we steer towards the local level. I look forward to continuing to discuss the issues and to ensuring that we come forward with good proposals.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-437	Madam President, I would like Increasingly, we individual consumers as well as contracting operators can be informed of the conditions under which many of our food products are produced. Unfortunately, the same does not apply to many other products on which we are becoming increasingly dependent. In electronics and energy systems with necessary components, we need a variety of metals. Today we know too little about the conditions under which they have been produced, the situation of the on-the-spot workforce and the climate footprint. That is why the initiative taken by the Swedish and Finnish Ministers for Economic Affairs is very welcome. It is about our countries being at the forefront of an international standard and certification of sustainable metals. I believe that this is an important step in the transition towards a more sustainable world. That is why I am curious to ask: how is this initiative to be put into practice?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-439	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Westerén for a very important question. As electrification and, not least, digitalisation have increased – we all now have smart phones in our pockets – we are demanding more and more of rare earth metals and minerals used to manufacture them. Everyone predicts that this will increase avalanche – several thousand percent – as we now increase electrification of our societies and turn to more climate-smart. Today we are receiving reports that many of these minerals and metals are produced through child labour, radiation-sick workers and workers and contaminated water. We can't have this. We will now, together with Finland, take initiatives in the EU and in the OECD to ensure that these earth metals and minerals become traceable so that consumers know where they come from. We believe that it will reasonably lead to tightening up so that we do not pollute water or harm people when we develop these minerals and metals.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-443	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ibrahim Baylan. There are many people in Sweden today who go without a job. At the same time, many companies have a shortage of labour. This applies not least to programmers, teachers and service technicians. The supply of skills is a growing problem and hampers Sweden's growth. We recently visited the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, which reported that one in four recruitment attempts fails because you simply do not find the right skills. There are too few people who choose vocational programmes in upper secondary school, and it is difficult to change your professional life as an adult.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-447	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Stockhaus for an important issue. What she's saying is correct. Sweden today has by far the highest employment rate throughout the European Union. I believe that just over 83% of the working-age population are in work. It has, of course, made it difficult to get people out when our industry, our industry and also the public sector are looking for people. At the same time, we have had a lot of unemployed people. What do you do in concrete terms? At this point, it is a matter of increasing labour market training, of increasing investment in our education system and of redeploying upper secondary school. Maria Stockhaus is absolutely right. After the very fiasco rescheduling of upper secondary school in 2011, as the bourgeois government did, a great many young people avoided vocational training. Now we are looking at how this can be changed, so that education and training can be better linked to the labour market. In addition, we are now also launching a cooperation programme with the business community, so that we can resolve this issue in companies, in the public and together.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-451	Madam President, I would like I want to ask my question to Minister Lena Micko. Municipalities and regions face major challenges. It is about continuing to have a good education for our children and young people but also a good care for our elderly. At the same time, many municipalities and regions face major investment needs. For us Social Democrats, it is extremely important to have a strong society and a strong welfare.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-455	Madam President, I would like I thank Eva Lindh for a very important question. For the government, welfare is absolutely a priority. It is an enormous amount about how we ensure that we have good conditions around our country to cope with welfare missions. It's tough in many places in many municipalities and regions. We are well on our way when we can strengthen the budget by EUR 5 billion to municipalities and regions. But it is also important to stress that not only one solution is needed. The government is aware that more resources will need to be discussed, but also other changes, such as digitalisation, cost compensation, how we control municipalities, less targeted state subsidies and more. The government is therefore working very actively on this issue and will come back with other proposals.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-458	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. There has been a lively debate about shortage or non-electricity in Skåne this autumn. Companies have sounded the alarm about energy shortages. The Government of Anders Ygeman has first argued that there was no shortage. But now Aftonbladet writes that the same minister has come up with a crisis package to cope with Skåne's energy supply for the winter. Madam President, I would like My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is: Does the Minister currently see any barriers to the establishment of companies in relation to energy shortages in Skåne?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-462	Madam President, I would like I thank Lotta Olsson for the question. The Ygeman Government answered the question quite recently, and an agreement has now been reached with the network owners on how to deal with the capacity problems that have been highlighted. We do not have energy or electricity shortages in our country. Rather, it is the opposite; we have the greatest surplus ever. A very good reason for this is the broad cooperation that has existed between the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Environmental Party, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party. Looking ahead, Lotta Olsson is quite right that there are a lot of companies that want to invest in Sweden and establish themselves in Sweden. Of course we will accept that. Then Lotta Olsson also knows that it will never be that everyone can establish themselves in the same place. That is the case today, and so will the future. But when we look at the challenges ahead, we have very good conditions, and the challenges we face best together.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-466	Madam President, I would like I'm going to ask Ibrahim Baylan my question. In response to a written question about weapons warehouses, Minister Damberg recently stated that there are no statistics on the collection and return of weapons warehouses to the police. Despite the lack of statistics and facts, the government is now claiming that this is a problem and wants to introduce new legislation for weapons warehouses. It is legislation that would create major problems for the country's hunters, sportsmen and collectors, even though we do not have any problems with the possession and storage of weapons by our hunters or sportsmen. These are good people who do wildlife conservation in the country and train, compete and win shooting prizes and competitions around the world. It is remarkable to note, then, that the police do not provide any statistics on the objects they collect and return.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-469	Madam President, I would like I thank Sten Bergheden for the question, although I am surprised by it. Do not Sten Bergheden and the Moderates see the problems we have had with weapons for quite a long time? One of the main reasons why we have tightened up so many laws on weapons offences is that we have had these problems. The proposal under discussion will not affect hunters or sportsmen, because they have a licence for what they do. This is aimed exclusively at the criminal gangs which today have far too many weapons. It's that the weapons are regulated but not the magazines. When the police in our country say that, in order to combat gangs and crime, they need this legislation, I am actually surprised that the Moderates are engaged in taking cheap points and pursuing populism instead of ensuring that the police are given the tools they need to fight crime and therefore the gangs.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-472	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Rothenberg, for your speech. I repeat some things so that we remember what the debate was about. Hans Rothenberg describes a situation in which, after 180 days of sick leave, entrepreneurs are advised to seek a new job. This is about the review carried out after 180 days in the health insurance in force. The government has set up an investigation called the investigation into a safe health insurance with people at the centre. It shall present its proposal on 31 January. The study will, among other things, analyse specific reasons for postponing the examination of work capacity towards normal work in the labour market. That is the question that is central here. Furthermore, the government has worked with investigations that looked at specific issues relating to the conditions for entrepreneurs. This has led, among other things, to the fact that since 1 August 2018, we have the same protection for entrepreneurs during the construction phase regardless of their corporate form. The construction phase has also been extended to 36 months. We have just received on our table a number of other proposals which improve the conditions of social security systems for entrepreneurs. These issues are dealt with at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, because they specifically concern conditions for entrepreneurs, but of course we are deeply involved in that process also by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Government's goal in this area is for Swedish entrepreneurs to have a social security system that at any given time makes self-employed workers, small businesses and people who step into and out of the entrepreneurial role feel the same security as employees. Therefore, we also need to work continuously to update the regulatory framework. Mr Rothenberg asked which parts of the investigations are most central. I would like to say that the most important part of the legal framework concerns the investigation that is due to present its proposal on 31 January. It is precisely the test of normal employment in the labour market that is the central issue. I also reminded the honourable Member of Parliament that there is a problem, namely that in this House there has been a bourgeois majority with the Swedish Democrats who have wanted to move in the direction of health insurance being restricted and deteriorating. Now there were some doubts from the Swedish Democrats in the debate that we had during Question Time, but it is still the case that we have an announcement from this House, which the Moderates have voted in favour of, which requires the government to reintroduce the backlog, the far limit of health insurance, which of course would be a severe deterioration for all insured people. In addition, I reminded the honourable Member of the proposals to be decided in this House. In the Moderate Budget Movement, the Moderates want to go back to the order in force during the time when Ulf Kristersson was Minister of Social Security. Among other things, the aim is to reintroduce the lower time limit in health insurance, but there are a number of other proposals: a reduction in health insurance ceilings, a reduction in the remuneration of days 90-365, a reduction in unemployment and sick leave and the introduction of a new carer's day, 15, which of course also affects entrepreneurs. I think it is a good thing that this debate is being conducted. However, my assessment after this debate and the debate we had before this debate, Madam President, is that it would probably be good if there were also an internal debate within the Moderates on social security. You don't have to be biased, you don't have to be a social democrat or a social security minister, in order to quickly make the analysis that the Moderate Budget Movement would be the hardest blow to social security, including the social insurance of entrepreneurs, since Ulf Kristersson proudly fought against a generous social security system as a social security minister. So let that debate also take off! But Hans Rothenberg should be absolutely sure that the government sees what he sees. We will also promote the safety of entrepreneurs in social security.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-482	Madam President, I would like We talked a little earlier about mixing the cards away. You can talk about social security in general or about what I have asked questions about in my interpellation, namely the social security system for small businesses. That, if anything, could possibly fit into the concept of pre-stock – not what the Moderates stand for in terms of social security in general. I do not think that the Minister landed correctly. On the other hand, I welcome what Mr Shekarabi has now mentioned about the ambition to correct the misdemeanours of those entrepreneurs who end up in difficult situations of illness or injury, when their businesses, their life's work, are at risk of breakdown due to ill health. This needs to be corrected, and it needs to be done on a continuous basis. There must also be human considerations towards entrepreneurs. There is a need for flexibility in the management and management of the authorities to follow up on this. And I don't think any social democrat would accept that any employee in Sweden was handled in the same way by authorities as entrepreneurs do. The Government paid tribute to me and my colleague for raising these issues. I will return that tribute when the bill is on Parliament's table, when it will provide opportunities for entrepreneurs to have a more decent future when they fall into insolvency. A tribute, but first a solid bill that corresponds to what Sweden's entrepreneurs need!
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-485	Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to express my thanks to Mr Rothenberg for this fine discussion on a very relevant issue. We share the view that we should have an equivalence in social security systems between employees and entrepreneurs. The whole point of our social security is that we should provide security to people who work – in old age, in sickness, in parenting. This is an area in which, since 2006, we have seen quite serious deteriorations. Now we need to focus on reinvigorating these models. One of the strengths that Sweden has had in the 20th century is that we have been able to combine growth and entrepreneurship with social security. Social security has been a very important part of this. During one period, the debate went in another direction. They talked disparagingly about social security and talked about benefits. Now the debate has turned again, and that is a good thing. It creates the conditions for us to address these issues, improve social security and strengthen health insurance. It is also quite relevant and crucial, as Mr Rothenberg says, that we take the conditions of entrepreneurs into account in these processes. I would therefore like to express my great thanks and look forward to continued dialogue and cooperation on these issues.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-488	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson has asked me when I and the Government intend to return to the Riksdag with proposals for further tightening up on survivors' support in accordance with the Riksdag's decision and how I and the Government intend to ensure that the relevant authorities work together to minimise undue payments and other maladministration. A child is entitled to an orphan's pension or survivor's allowance if the child's parent or both parents have died. If a parent has disappeared and it can be assumed that he or she has died, the same entitlement to compensation applies as in the case of death. Survivors' benefits are provided in addition to or in place of an orphan's pension and are intended to ensure a minimum level of protection for a child in the event of a parent's death, i.e. to guarantee a minimum reasonable standard of living. Survivor's allowance is a residence-based benefit. For a child who comes to Sweden, survivor's allowance can only be provided when the child is insured in Sweden, i.e. when the child is considered a resident of Sweden and has been granted a residence permit. The Swedish Parliament has made it known that the Government should return to the Riksdag with a proposal that survivors' support that requires the application can be submitted for a maximum of one month before the application date, and that the Government should investigate whether survivors' support should be provided to children living in HVB homes or similar (bet. 2017/ 18:SfU27). In the budget proposal for 2020 in Category 12, the Government has proposed a change in the retroactivity of survivors' payments. With that proposal for a limitation to one month's retroactivity, the Government considers that the announcement in this part is satisfied and thus finalised. As regards the notice on survivors' payments to children living in HVB homes or the like, the Government intends to return later during its term of office. There is a need for more knowledge about survivors' benefits and the importance of other social security benefits when children are placed outside their own home. The Government intends to acquire such knowledge and investigate the question of whether there is a need for possible legislative changes. I would like to draw the attention of the interpeller to the fact that there is already a restriction on the right to survivor's allowance for children placed under the current rules. In 106th chapter. Paragraph 33 of the Social Security Code states that if a child has been cared for for for at least 30 consecutive days at the expense of the State at an institution or has otherwise received food and housing, the survivor's allowance may not be granted. There are exceptions for special school and boarding at Sami school. In practice, therefore, under the current rules, there should not be much room for children cared for in HVB homes or the like to receive survivors' benefits. Finally, I would like to say that the Pension Agency has a well-functioning cooperation with the Swedish Immigration Service, among other things, in matters relating to new arrivals.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-493	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Social Security for his reply. It is great that the government intends to come back as soon as possible with tightening up on retroactivity, but that was not really the issue in this interpellation. In the case of survivor's aid, it should therefore be seen as a complement to maintenance aid. It is clear from the preparatory work for the introduction of the survivor's allowance that the aim is to maintain the consistency between the support for children whose parents are divorced and the support for children whose parents have died. Nevertheless, the legal texts for each grant differ quite significantly. The Act for Maintenance Support explicitly specifies that maintenance support is not provided to young people who are cared for in family homes, assisted housing or HVB in the social services. This wording is missing from the paragraph referred to by the Minister concerning survivors' payments. There it focuses only on children who are cared for in prison at the expense of the state. Madam President, I would like Why is this important? Because the increase in survivors' payments mainly concerns unaccompanied minors. As the Minister is certainly aware, responsibility for unaccompanied children and young people was transferred from the State to the municipalities in 2006. Certainly, the state pays a flat-rate sum to the municipalities for each unaccompanied minor, but these young people are cared for not at the expense of the state but at the expense of the municipalities. Thus, it is perfectly possible for a foreign youth, together with his specially appointed guardian, to apply for survivor's allowance and receive it as a pure bonus of SEK 1 550 per month per parent. The housing and social services of the municipality also have no obvious insight into young people's private finances, for that responsibility lies with the specially appointed guardian. So, as I interpret the text of the law on retirement aid, the restrictions do not apply to young people who are cared for at HVB homes or the like. It is possible that my interpretation is wrong, I am open to it, but from the professional experience I have when I have worked with unaccompanied minors for 15 years before I got the Parliament seat here, there is nothing to suggest that it would be an incorrect interpretation. If the Minister makes a different interpretation of the law, I'm very curious to hear it, and I'm sure the Pensions Authority and the municipal lawyers are also. With regard to the examination of the issue to which the Minister is now referring, it should reasonably be carried out fairly quickly. In principle, it is only a matter of supplementing the legislation on survivor's aid with what is already in the legal text on maintenance aid. Can we expect that there may be a legislative amendment or a proposal for a legislative amendment already in the current parliamentary year?
i-QihjDokZAbTGkcrzrXndnL	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Andersson, for the question. This issue is important for a number of reasons, including reasons of principle. We must do everything we can to maintain trust and confidence in our social security policies. Then we must also maintain the legitimacy of social security. The government has no interest whatsoever in acting in a way that weakens legitimacy and confidence in our social security policies. We will work intensively on this issue. However, there are a number of question marks. How should this legislation be interpreted? How is it applied today? How would a possible amendment of the law change the application for all groups? Therefore, we see a need to take in such knowledge and thus also to investigate whether a change of law is really needed. If we come to the conclusion that there is a need for a change of law, we shall of course act. We are currently in the phase of acquiring this kind of knowledge, and we have several authorities who have knowledge of these issues, not least the Social Security Inspection, which works with this type of data and support to the government. We will come back with information on what the process should look like. Therefore, at this point, I cannot say at what point we will be presenting a proposal, because we have still not assessed whether there is any need for a legislative amendment or whether it is a matter of application. However, as soon as we have learned about this with the support of our authorities, we will, of course, also announce how we proceed and, if necessary, whether a legislative change is needed that needs to pass through this House.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-505	Madam President, I would like Thank you, the Minister for Social Security, for your answer and for your commitment to this issue! I think it is important for everyone that things like this, as you say, are made visible for the sake of legitimacy and that action be taken as quickly as possible. Now it is not enough, for example, to balance the rules on survivors' and maintenance aid with regard to legitimacy. We have not touched on the more fundamental question of principle: why should foreign young people receive money from the Pensions Agency for dead foreign parents who have never set foot in Sweden? Unfortunately, it must also be said that parents can be said to be dead, because there is no requirement for death certificates, and the cooperation between the authorities is more or less non-existent, according to the information I have. In principle, you can get an absurd situation in which deceased parents through the Migration Agency can move to Sweden as relatives, even though according to the Pension Agency they are dead. I believe that this is something that puts a serious eye on voters and taxpayers, not to mention Swedish pensioners who have earned their pensions throughout their working lives. It's not a small sum we're talking about either. The parliamentary investigation service has calculated what the savings would be if only children with Swedish citizenship could receive survivors' support. It was concluded that spending on survivors' payments would be reduced by over SEK 80 million per year in 2019 – 2022. Madam President, I would like Let's just do a small calculation example to put this into a context. If this SEK 80 million were allocated to the 10 000 poorest pensioners in Sweden, there would be an increase of over SEK 650 per person per month during those years. I think that many would see it as more reasonable for the Pension Agency to be given the task of prioritising our elderly. Now that the Minister has announced that the Government intends to acquire knowledge and investigate the matter, as it says, I hope that it will also be investigated whether survivors' support should not be reserved for Swedish citizens. Let me also go into part two of the interpellation, i.e. cooperation between the authorities, which the Minister thinks is well-functioning. According to information received by the Swedish Parliament's investigation service from the Swedish Pension Agency, the Finnish Immigration Service currently has no opportunity to obtain information from the Swedish Pension Agency. This has been investigated and pointed out to the government, most recently in a SOU 2015, but the government has not taken any action. In turn, the Pension Authority has access to the Swedish Tax Agency's population register data, but no more than that. If an application has been submitted to the Finnish Immigration Service or if a decision on a case has been made, this will not be registered in the register, and the Pension Authority will not know anything unless they ask a specific question, which in principle never happens. Cooperation may be effective, as the Minister says, but it is certainly not the exchange of information. I believe that the Minister and I agree that trust in the authorities is good, but that control is better. I still wonder how the Minister intends to deal with the problem of interconnections and contacts between authorities in this case.
i-PSKsEpDqKaAMUfvrQdnKyU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Andersson, for the post! We have a continuous dialogue with our authorities, in this case authorities that are not least under the Ministry of Social Affairs. As far as the Pension Agency is concerned, it is the government's view that there is a well-functioning cooperation with both Försäkringskassan and the Migration Agency in matters related to survivors' support and the Migration Agency, specifically if it concerns someone who has immigrated to Sweden. We see a need to gain a clearer understanding of how the rules are applied and to do so with the aim of maintaining the legitimacy of the system. Here it is important that we have legal rules for our social security policies that live up to the expectations and legal standards of our society. This is the view of the government. At the same time, it is important that we start from the facts. For example, regarding the assessment of whether the parent is likely or not to be deceased, the Pension Authority conducts an individual investigation and an assessment of whether this is the case in each case. This does not happen automatically, but our authorities are working to make a professional assessment based on facts. Of course, the government will act on the announcement made by the Riksdag on this matter. The legislative amendment now proposed in the budget proposal, which relates to retroactivity, concerns the fundamental issue mentioned by Jonas Andersson and is not separate from the principled question. Retroactivity is limited to one month precisely to strengthen the link with Sweden. It is a natural consequence of the will expressed by the Riksdag and supported by the Government.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-521	Madam President, I would like Once again, thank you, the Minister for Social Security. I'm so glad to hear that. It feels like you really want to work on this issue. For me, this can be summed up quite quickly and easily. I hope that the solutions to this issue will be about as quick and simple. It's great that the retroactivity is greatly reduced. It is great that the government intends to investigate the issue of survivors' support further. It is good if you can change the law on survivors' support so that it is in line with maintenance support, which has always been the idea. It cannot be a great difficulty to change it because it is in the preliminary work that they should be comparable. I absolutely agree that this is a step in the right direction, but somewhere that is not enough. With regard to the contacts I have had with the authorities before this interpellation, I can say that the control of whether or not the parents are dead is extremely sporadic. It is not something that is done automatically or something that is done in all cases. It can happen, but it happens very rarely. It is still extremely strange in principle, I think, that money from the Pension Agency – money from Swedish taxpayers and pensioners – should be given away as a kind of bonus to foreign young people whose parents have never set foot in Sweden. If there had been an august horn to come out of, I could have understood that, but we know, Madam President, that there is no such thing. I hope that the Minister gives a thought to Swedish poor pensioners when he is back in his office after today's debates and will sum up the impressions. With this, I thank you for today's debate.
i-GT3K6hGL3fmpDQ7RKW2y6p	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Andersson, for the debate. I can assure Jonas Andersson that the government is definitely focusing on our pensioners. It is also against this background and in accordance with the pension agreement that we will increase the guarantee pension and significantly increase the ceiling of the housing supplement as early as 1 January, so that the pensioners with the lowest pensions will have improvements. It is an obligation that we have to those people who have built up our country and created the prosperity and well-being that we enjoy today. As regards social security and the qualification of these, these are issues that we will have to work on. For example, it has been a central issue to work with qualification and parental insurance regulations. We do not exclude that there are more areas where we will have to work on these issues in order to maintain the legitimacy of the system. The government has therefore come to the conclusion that child care allowances and such provisions and benefits that are not linked to labour market activity have a detrimental effect on both the integration and legitimacy of our welfare systems. We will have to come back to this specific issue, but I want the process to go right and that our authorities, not least the Social Security Inspection, are given the opportunity to give us the knowledge and the basis we need in the further process. Thank you for the debate.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-530	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me why the objective of the EU's lowest unemployment rate has been removed from the budget. The unemployment target appeared during the last parliamentary term as a steering year for government policy. During this period, unemployment fell by over 11⁄2 percentage points and youth unemployment decreased by good 5 percentage points. Employment grew by over 300 000 persons, of which 200 000 were born abroad. At the same time, the number of hours worked continuously increased. The whole job growth came about in regular jobs, not through subsidised employment. Today, we can see that the Swedish labour market remains strong despite a slowdown in the first half of 2019. The employment rate is historically high among both women and men and is the highest in the EU among women. No other EU country has a larger share of its population in the labour force. The establishment of new arrivals in the labour market has accelerated in recent years. In the 2019 budget decided by the Riksdag, the scope for active labour market policy was significantly reduced. Against this background, the government in the budget proposal for 2020 proposes a number of labour market policy measures that mitigate the previously announced resource reductions and provide better conditions for good results. In total, the Government proposes investments of nearly SEK 1.3 billion to equip more people for work, better integration and a continuation of the expansion of the Knowledgelift. Individuals should be given the opportunity to acquire knowledge and experience needed in the labour market while facilitating the supply of skills to employers. More will be able to start and run businesses, and the competitiveness of the business community will be strengthened. A well-designed active labour market policy contributes to more people being able to get to work. Work is the most important prerequisite for self-sufficiency and establishment in society.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-536	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Let us begin by stating that we share the view that everyone in our country has a job. That is, as it were, the basis for both self-sufficiency and common welfare. However, the most important promise of the Social Democrats was to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven said that all policies should be weighed against this particular objective and that everything should be done to achieve it. Now, since 2014, when the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government took over, Sweden has collapsed from place 10 to place 22 among the EU's 28 Member States in terms of unemployment. In the last budget, the objective was completely removed, even though it was therefore the most important objective of all and that everything should be directed towards that very objective. Madam President, I would like It is against this background that I have asked the Government why the Government has removed the target of the EU's lowest unemployment from the budget. The answer, if I understand it correctly, is that the goal has served as a steering year for the first five or six years that this government has been in power. When the government took over Sweden was, as I said, one of the world's, or at least Europe's, best countries in this area – as the government itself said, the most important area. After five years, we have gone from being one of the best countries to becoming one of the worst countries, relatively speaking, in dealing with unemployment. That is why I am thinking about this, Madam President: it must have been the worst governance oar ever if you have gone from being one of the best countries to becoming one of the worst countries on what you say is the most important thing you want to achieve. There has been a collapse from 10 to 22 of the EU's 28 Member States. Madam President, I would like I am not sure that the Minister can even list the few countries within the EU-28 that have actually succeeded worse than the government she herself represents. There are very few countries, but I don't even think this government can mention who they are. However, I may be wrong. Three of the EU's 28 Member States, therefore, have succeeded worse than Sweden has done since this government took over. It would be easy to believe, Madam President, that the government has removed the target because it has failed completely with what you yourself said was the most important thing you would do if you were given government power. It would be easy to believe that the goal has been removed because it has failed. But now I'm not like that, of course I believe in the Minister and the Government if you say that it has been removed for other reasons – although it may seem a little strange. The Minister may be able to answer the question if she thinks that her government has succeeded in achieving the goal that was set as the single most important thing if it was taken over six years ago. How does the Minister feel that the relative objective of being the best in Europe has been achieved?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-544	Madam President, I would like We have a very strong labour market in Sweden. As I said in my speech at the beginning, we are extremely high, for example, in terms of women's employment and participation in the labour force; in fact, I think we are at the top of the list. We removed this objective because the political conditions were completely different in 2014. Instead, after the 2018 elections, the January agreement came into force, and there is not this objective. Looking at the results delivered during the last parliamentary term, as I also described, it is clear that there are more than 300 000 more in employment. That may be a very good result. With regard to the Swedish labour market today, there is clarity in the Government's ambitions, namely to ensure that those who are furthest from the labour market also receive the support they need. When we look today at the Swedish labour market, we see that most people have work to do. The really big problem in the Swedish labour market is the lack of the right skills. Employers are screaming for labour in both the public and private sectors. At the same time, we have a group that is unemployed and that really needs to be equipped and matched not only for new jobs but to be able to get into work. There we have a clear priority for Arbetsförmedlingen's work – to make sure to match and equip those people to give them the opportunity to enter the Swedish labour market. I am also very proud of what the government is doing for the 2020 budget, where we are adding resources of almost 1.3 billion in a job package. Only yesterday I met one of the women in Sweden who, through an extra job, had stepped into permanent employment. It is important that, regardless of the objectives set, we have active work to ensure that people are able to work and provide for themselves. This is how we build Sweden strong.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-549	Madam President, I would like As I began my previous speech by saying, the Minister and I share the same view on the very importance of people having their own work. It provides self-sufficiency, it provides security in its own economy and it increases equality. During the latter half of the 20th and early 2000s, Sweden has been one of the better countries in that particular area, and it has created a very equal society. All this we agree on – the importance of having a job. Perhaps it is precisely because this is such an important issue that Stefan Löfven said before becoming Prime Minister that it was the most important issue for the government he wanted to form. That is also why I would like to raise it in this House today, Madam President. It took over a Sweden that was in place 10 among the EU's 28 Member States, and this was the single most important objective. Now they have collapsed to location 22, and after doing so they have removed the target. In fact, I find it a little strange that the target has been removed just when it has gone so badly, Madam President. The Minister then says that she is quite satisfied with the results of the labour market. We have had a global boom, and of course Sweden has also taken part in it. However, the fact is that only 3 countries in the EU's 28 Member States have succeeded worse than Sweden in taking advantage of the boom. Sooner or later, a boom turns into a recession, and then we are less equipped. We are in a worse position than in principle all the other countries of the European Union. This is the problem precisely because it is such an important issue. It lays the foundation for a personal economy to have a job, and it lays the foundation for the common welfare we want with school, health care and care for the elderly. It is the work of the individual that is the basis for all this, and that is why the debate is so important. My question is therefore once again, Madam President: does the Minister think that she has succeeded well when we are the third worst country in the European Union to take advantage of the boom? It's not about absolute numbers, it's about relative numbers. That was the government's own objective. The government has stopped talking in relative terms and now only talks in absolute numbers. Yes, it has become good in the labour market in Sweden compared to before – due to the global boom. But we are one of the worst countries in the European Union to actually use the global boom. Let me just, for the listener who may not be fully acquainted with all these parts, make a simple illustration. If you cycle a bike race in the Alps it sometimes goes very much up and sometimes very much down. It's not complicated; it's going a little bit, a little faster on the downhill – I think most people understand – and it goes a little slower uphill. But the point is that in such a race in the Alps, cyclists are compared to each other when riding uphill, and they are compared to each other on the downhill slope. It's just like in high and recession worldwide. Sweden was better under the alliance government on cycling uphill when the economic cycle was heavy. We were one of the best countries in Europe. Then we changed the government, and it became downhill – a global boom – and then we have been one of the worst countries. We're almost the last in the race now. Three countries have used the global boom worse than Sweden has. That is why my question, Madam President, is: can the Minister really stand in this Chamber and say that she is satisfied with the way in which the global economic boom has been exploited? We are one of the countries that has been the worst at taking advantage of the boom.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-556	Madam President, I would like We clearly agree that we should have high ambitions in terms of employment rates and do all we can to push back unemployment, and I am very pleased about that. The high ambitions were very clear when Stefan Löfven at the 2013 Party Congress said that we would reach the lowest unemployment rate in the EU. It was a binding milestone, but we were going towards full employment. Full employment, of course, is always a social democratic policy. Looking at the statistics on unemployment and the percentage of the labour force in the EU between the years mentioned, 2014 and 2019, I can see that the target has served as a good steering year. We have pushed unemployment down. Then some countries in the EU have succeeded even better in reducing their unemployment. As a social democrat, you can never be entirely satisfied with that. Of course, we should be proud of what we deliver, but we are never satisfied until we reach full employment. As I said, during the last parliamentary term employment increased by over 300 000 people, of which 200 000 were born abroad. That's really good work. But, of course, we always have the aim of full employment.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-560	Madam President, I would like The criticism I make to the Minister is that Sweden is moving further and further away from the goal that the government itself set itself as the single most important. The reason why we are conducting the debate is, of course, that we share the picture of how important it is to have low unemployment and many people at work. That is the basis, both for our own livelihoods, as we have said several times, and for financing the welfare we want. Then the criticism on my part, Madam President, is that we have succeeded worse than in principle all the other countries of the European Union in taking advantage of the boom that we have had globally. As the minister himself says, Stefan Löfven said this would be the only thing. That would be the most important objective, to which all policies would be steered. You would compare and value everything on the basis of that goal. But ever since they had the opportunity to do something about it, the results have been impaired and have slipped further and further behind all other countries. If you talk in relative terms, this is like selling umbrellas and saying: Our umbrellas work great– as long as there's sunshine, you won't get wet. The problem is, it's not always sunshine. When it rains, the umbrella needs to make sure you don't get wet. This government, Madam President, sells umbrellas that work in beautiful weather. They certainly work significantly worse than almost all other umbrellas, but they work at least as long as it's beautiful weather. What is the big problem here is that sooner or later the economic cycle is turning downwards. Then Sweden is less equipped than in practice all the other 28 EU Member States with regard to this particular objective, as the Prime Minister himself said was the most important objective that everything would steer towards. Is the Minister really satisfied with this result – that it has succeeded worse than almost everyone else in taking advantage of the global boom?
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-565	Madam President, I would like We have a very strong labour market in Sweden. The employment rate remains historically high among both women and men. Among women, it is the highest in the EU. We'll be proud of that. But of course you should never be satisfied. We can always do more. The objective must be full employment. For me as a social democrat and Minister for Labour, politics is about creating the conditions for employers to recruit the skills they need to develop their activities and the conditions for people to get the right job. That is what must be the starting point for policy. This is also how we create competitiveness, growth and prosperity in our country, and that is how we build Sweden stronger.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-567	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me three questions related to the electricity supply in Skåne and a government mission to the County Governor in Skåne. First of all, when will the County Governor in Skåne get the assignment from me, and when will the mission be completed? Secondly, when do I intend to be able to report results on the fact that Skåne's capacity and power shortages have been remedied? Thirdly, what is my message to those companies which, pending the closure of the capacity and power shortage, cannot establish new plants or expand their production? I would like to start by thanking Boriana Åberg for the questions. It is important that all parts of Sweden have a safe and robust electricity supply. I would also like to make a clarification. Sweden has a large electricity surplus. Those are facts. We have been a net exporter for a number of years in a row, and 2019 looks to be a record year. We have never exported as much electricity as we did in the first half of 2019. There is therefore no shortage of electricity in Sweden. On the other hand, I am well aware that there are regions where existing electricity networks are not dimensioned to all demand for increased electricity consumption. Actually, it's not that strange either. On the contrary, it would be strange if Swedish electricity networks had an overcapacity, so that there was always room to connect all the additional electricity consumption in the hundreds of megawatts. Such an oversized network would, of course, be very costly for both households and industry. In this context, I would also like to emphasise that it is the network owners, at all levels, who are responsible for building and operating the network in an efficient and efficient manner. However, the central part of the solution to challenges posed by local and regional capacity problems is to ensure the efficient functioning of the competitive part of the electricity market. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Energy Market Authority to analyse possible improvement measures. Swedish grids also carry out a review of the electricity area division, which could result in better incentives for market participants to implement cost-effective solutions, for example through increased flexibility. So to the questions! On the first issue, the Government decided on the assignment to the County Administrative Board in Skåne on 24 October 2019. The assignment shall be reported to the Government Office by 7 August 2020. At the same time, the county administrative boards of Stockholm, Västra Götalands and Uppsala County received the same assignment. In short, the task is to analyse, from a local and regional perspective, the conditions for a secure electricity supply in each region. The aim is to find opportunities for better coordination between regional and local actors who can contribute to a more efficient network supply. On the second issue, I believe that we can never settle down and say that the electricity grid is complete or that the electricity market is working perfectly. I believe there will always be potential for improvement. However, in order to improve the capacity situation in Skåne until new transmission network capacity is in place, the government, together with the energy industry, has presented an initiative for increased investments in the electricity grids and increased regional impact. Eon Energy Distribution has announced that they intend to take action immediately, so that sufficient impact in Malmö and Skåne is secured and expansion for the business community is made possible in the region. As far as Question No 3 is concerned, I assume that in the near future companies will be informed by their network operators about the solutions and measures that have been planned.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-579	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The fact that the government now finally chooses to act, after months of denial of the electricity crisis in Skåne, is positive. It is good that the Minister has taken on board our concerns about the supply of electricity in the southern part of the country, a region which is very badly affected by a number of wrong decisions, first and foremost the decision to close Barsebäck, but also the absurd division into electricity price zones, the taxes on cogeneration, the forthcoming waste incineration tax and more. I look forward to the County Administrative Board's report on the assignment in August next year as well as a much-needed review of the division into electricity price zones. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that the most important thing is that sufficient electricity is produced when it is needed and that this can benefit consumers throughout the country. Therefore, it is not only surprising but also rude and casual to those who work in Skåne and cannot obtain enough electricity for their establishment or expansion when the Minister for Energy and the Prime Minister as a mantra in all possible contexts repeats that we have a large electricity surplus in Skåne. There is a difference between energy in terawatt hours and power in watts. The fact that Sweden covers the overall need for power over the year says nothing about how well the effect can be distributed. Madam President, I would like It is true that network owners are responsible for building and operating the network in an efficient and efficient manner. The main responsibility lies with the Swedish power network, which is a government agency. Thus, the government cannot in any way renounce responsibility for the South-West Link. It was due to be completed in 2015 but is still inoperative. Similarly, it is the government that is responsible for the lack of production in the southern parts of the country. If nuclear power is shut down and cogeneration is taxed on fire, there is a shortage of electricity. Madam President, I would like I forgot to praise the Minister for his humble answer to my question about the resolution of the capacity and impact shortages in Skåne. True, it is not possible to say that you are done with that work. There is constant development, and the need for electricity is only increasing with the phasing out of fossil fuels and with digitalisation. Therefore, the government must be one step ahead and not make bad decisions that jeopardise the supply of electricity. One such decision is the closure of nuclear reactors. Madam President, I would like The best way to reduce CO2 emissions is to invest in nuclear energy. It was not so long ago that the Prime Minister, then Chairman of IF Metall, felt that we had to reinvest in nuclear power to meet the needs of industry. Now the needs are greater than ever. Instead of creating the conditions for new investments in nuclear power, however, decommissioning continues.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-585	Madam President, I would like I note that the Moderates support the initiative of the Government and the Energy Authority. I welcome that. I also welcome the fact that the government and the Moderates, together with the Centre Party and the Christian Democrats through the Energy Agreement, have created record-sized electricity surpluses in Sweden and lower electricity prices than in our surrounding world. I look forward to the business community in Stockholm and Skåne being able to continue to expand and invest and that according to the grid owners the capacity needs for 2030 are covered. I look forward to working further together with the Moderates and the other parties in the Energy Agreement for Sweden's best.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-587	Madam President, I would like It sounds promising that the Minister for Energy intends to work to ensure that everyone has access to energy and for the good of Sweden. A good tip is that you don't make bad decisions. In addition to the decisions to close down nuclear reactors, and well-functioning ones, another bad decision is the taxation of cogeneration. In fact, the capacity problem in Malmö is due to the sharply increased energy taxes and the CO2 tax for the marginal peak effect of cogeneration. These plants sometimes use fossil fuel, but only for a very short time, a few days when it is as cold as cold, as a reserve. Taxing them is like taxing life jackets because they are made from the wrong material. Madam President, I would like A third decision that is devastating for energy supply is the tax on the incineration of waste. The government should withdraw the bill. It counteracts the intention to reduce CO2 emissions and all other harmful emissions. Billions of dollars have been invested in waste-fired cogeneration without state aid, with the idea that these plants could be used for a long time. In Sweden, where we are the best in the world, we deposit only 0.7 percent of all waste. Everything else is recycled or incinerated into energy thanks to the waste power plants. We also take care of residual waste from other countries with high environmental and climate requirements. Besides, we make money out of it. We contribute to a better environment as the waste from these plants abroad would otherwise have ended up in landfills. The tax on waste penalises a well-functioning technology and creates concern on the market. Who dares to invest in new technologies when conditions can change at any time because of political whims? Madam President, I would like In his first reply, the Minister mentioned that Eon will take steps to ensure sufficient impact to Malmö. Expansion for the business community in the region should also be ensured. Could the Minister explain more precisely what these measures are and come up with a little more details? So far there has been no other information than articles in Sydsvenskan and a little on Sydnytt and the news that the government has now solved the energy demand in Skåne. But the necessary and welcome news from network owners to companies that need to expand has not yet arrived. I'd like some details, Minister.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-592	Madam President, I would like It seems that the necessary information has come to those who want to expand. I was with Eon online's CEO at Pågen and presented it. The pope welcomed the fact that it can now expand. I assume that the network owner will provide the corresponding information to the other customers with whom it is having a discussion. The notification to all customers wishing to increase their impact was that they would receive it from the network owner. Further information is also available on the website of the network owner. I would like to begin by congratulating Boriana Åberg on the fact that, thanks to the measures taken by the government and the measures now taken by the net owners, the last remnants of fossil fueling are disappearing. Now they will move to biogas in Skåne's electricity supply. There will be reduced CO2 emissions but increased electricity grid expansion and increased electricity capacity. I think that I and Boriana Åberg agree on this is a positive development. With regard to nuclear energy, I would like to emphasise that the government has not taken any decisions to decommission any reactors and will not or will not take any such decisions. We agree in the Energy Agreement that nuclear power owners can both extend their reactors for life and if they wish to build new reactors. The energy agreement we made also abolished the impact tax so that it becomes economically more profitable to produce nuclear electricity in Sweden than it was under previous governments. Whether or not they choose to do so is a market assessment. That is something on which we, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party agree.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-595	Madam President, I would like I would like to hear more about the agreements with Eon. The only information I have received is from Sydsvenskan. No one who lives in Skåne could have missed the news that the energy shortage in Skåne will be offset by three new found power sources with pictures of a happy Anders Ygeman with his thumb up. I will not blame the Minister for the choice of words in the title. However, I would like to comment on the proposals in the way they were set out in the article. It was missed to tell you that only temporary solutions may be able to cope with the situation at most over this winter. But then the same problem arises. We will probably have the same debate again next year. According to the first proposal, the Eon electricity grid adds 95 megawatts of power by using the Heleneholm plant. It is the work that the Minister mentioned that is now going to go on biogas instead of natural gas. It's true. But it should not be forgotten that Heleneholmsverket closed down because of the unfortunate decision to tax cogeneration. It's just a run. Who will pay for the transfer from Eon production and heat to Eon electricity grid? Yes, it's the consumers. It is the electricity network collective that will ultimately bear the costs through its electricity network invoices. Then it has also been said that it optimises energy use with the network switch and adds additional power. But the tool has not been tested, not tested on a large scale. Whether it will work is still shrouded in mystery. It sounds good with mesh tools, but it is also clean and cut rationing.
i-WjjZLB37M3XJURAmizsm8T	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Boriana Åberg, for the questions! The story of the ring-inspired headline in the newspapers may be passed on to the Great Journalist Prize. Of course, the government has not found any new energy sources. However, just like Boriana Åberg, the network owner, together with Svenska Kraftnät, has found the conditions to meet the power requirements from now until 2030. In good time before that time, the transmission capacity from north to south should have improved. We are now investing ten times more in the core network than was done in the early 2000s. Over the next ten years, there will be twice as much air traffic control in Sweden as it has been built over the past 30 years – all so that Skåne's industry can expand and the companies can invest. Although it may have been in newspapers and moderate rhetoric, it is not the case that power plants have been shut down. What is happening now is that Heleneholmsverket is converted from fossil gas to biogas. I think that's a development that both me and the Moderates are acknowledgment of. I look forward to continuing the discussion with the Moderates and the other parties in the Energy Agreement. As Boriana Åberg said, it is the long-term rules of the game that are crucial for Swedish energy production and for Swedish industrial production. Although we sometimes have different opinions in the speaker's chair, we need to be able to work together for the best interests of Sweden and put the national interests first.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-602	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked me where I and the government stand on this issue and how I and the government intend to solve the security risks that may arise if they intend to implement an electricity market hub. The establishment of a so-called electricity market hub is important, among other things, in order to create better conditions for demand response, facilitate new market entrants and, overall, increase competition in the electricity market. The Swedish Power Networks Agency works, on behalf of the Government, to develop and in the future run an electricity market hub. In this work, Svenska Kraftnät places a great focus on security issues. The government, for its part, is working on developing a product with proposals for necessary constitutional changes to introduce the electricity market hub. Security issues and issues related to total defence are high on the government's agenda and are given great importance in the work on constitutional changes. The Government will also ensure that the regulation meets the requirements of the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The government plans to return with a product with proposals for regulation in 2020.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-606	Madam President, I would like Access to electricity in the right amount and at the right time is crucial for our society to function. We go with long steps from being fossil-dependent to becoming electricity-dependent. It's a good development. If we are to meet the climate challenge, access to electricity is crucial. But the increased dependence on electricity also makes us more vulnerable to power outages; power outages caused by natural disasters and power outages caused by sabotage. We are so dependent on ensuring access to electricity that we both freeze and find it difficult to transport ourselves if there is no access to electricity. Besides, we can no longer communicate without electricity. Our smartphones aren't working. Madam President, I would like Because society is undergoing major structural change – it can actually be called that – we also need to think about and rethink. What would previously be quality assured and streamlined can now become risks in society. There is an increased security risk of implementing a national electricity market hub. It is a hub that would gather all the information from all of Sweden's 4.5 million electricity consumers and also their electricity producers. When the thoughts were raised in 2015, this hub was perceived as a relevant rationalisation. Such a hub would mean that you get all your electricity charges on the same invoice. That would be the big win. The proposal for Energy Policy focuses on the following issues from April 2018: a wide range of proposals to develop the electricity market at national level are also being made by the Government, not least to facilitate consumers through, among other things, the development of electricity markets. an electricity market hub for the comprehensive management of measurement data that enables new services and makes it easier for consumers to be active. ..................................................... Although 2015 is not that long ago, much has changed. Today, people often pay their invoices electronically, making it easier for them to see what they are paying. In addition, our relationship with electricity has changed. We use more electricity, and many also produce their own electricity. All of this means that the system to get track of its electricity stores is both more multifaceted and more personal. They want their own monitoring systems for their electricity consumption and electricity generation, and many also take a relatively greater responsibility for their electricity transactions. This also makes it possible to become more climate- and environmental-conscious. In addition, an increased threat image against Sweden has towered up. It is interesting for other countries to gain both knowledge and control of our electricity and our energy consumption. If the aim, which was initially to make things easier for consumers, has survived itself, it is a high-risk project to continue work on implementation under the Government Directives for Swedish Power Networks, while also not developing legislation that will form the basis for the project. It is strange, then, that although several consultation bodies, such as the Swedish Defence Agency and the Swedish Data Protection Authority, have warned of the risk of a national electricity market hub, the work is still progressing. That is why this debate is so important.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-614	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that we will, of course, take very seriously the objections raised in the referrals from the defence and the Swedish Data Protection Authority. The main criticism of the Swedish Data Protection Authority was that the proposal was not in line with GDPR. This is because the GDPR did not exist when the proposal was presented. Therefore, the proposal needs to be supplemented to meet the stringent data protection requirements currently in place with GDPR. The defense had questions about the presence of certain defence facilities. Of course they shouldn't. Unfortunately, the proposal is not from 2015 but already came in 2009 when the then alliance government agreed with the other Nordic countries on what the electricity market would look like. An electricity market hub is already in place in Denmark and Norway, and Finland, like Sweden, is introducing an electricity market hub. Like those countries, we will do so with a high respect for security and integrity. The Government does not intend to make such a proposal if it cannot obtain the support of the negative referral bodies either.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-619	Madam President, I would like An electricity market hub is actually a giant data centre that would administer all of Sweden's electricity production and consumption. It is a real dream facility if you want to control and control the Swedish electricity system, but in all dreams it is closely linked to risks. A giant database can paralyze the whole country in the wrong hands. Swedes who hold electricity contracts would be included. It would be a huge database of personal data. And that, Madam President, would also be a huge database for how the Swedish electricity system works. There are other countries that have implemented electricity market centralistic systems, such as Norway and Denmark. Norway and Denmark have tried, but the system has not been fully implemented. It has also seen increased complexity, limited benefits and high costs. If you do not look at the basic argument – utility and clarity for the electricity customer – without control over access to energy and controlability, you still land in the dilemma whether the benefit is greater than the risk. Should not regulations and legislation also be developed for the project and not now work on first developing the product and then developing the regulatory framework? Madam President, I would like We must constantly learn from our past mistakes, change as the world changes, and be sensitive to warning signals. Only then can we have a functioning society and a policy that is developing. Only then can we live in a secure society where our important social functions work.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-623	Madam President, I would like First of all, I have to say that Lotta Olsson is, of course, right in the sense that in such longer-term projects we must always weigh benefits against risks. It remains for both the parliamentary parties and for the government to do so when we have a finished product and ready proposals for constitutional changes. Work on the product and on the constitutional changes takes place in parallel so that it does not take even longer. Then, of course, even the Moderates, like the entire Parliament chamber, will have to weigh up whether or not the previous support for the hub should be changed. However, I would like to emphasise one thing: this is not something that administers production. Electricity production is completely separate from the electricity market hub. This system will handle statistics on production, but the production system is completely separate from this. It's an important thing to have with you. It is not the case that the hub is a prerequisite for any electricity market production. Now we will make the system so safe that it will not be decommissionable, but even if it were to be decommissioned it has no impact on the production of electricity in Sweden. It is important that we have this with us, because otherwise we risk painting risks that do not exist. Of course, we should not go forward with a product if it turns out that it would not be needed or if there are alternative ways of action that would have as good or better effects. I hope to be able to cooperate with the Moderates and with other parties in the process to ensure that we produce the best possible product for the benefit of Sweden's energy consumers and Sweden's energy producers. It is my hope that this will be the case.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-629	Madam President, I would like Important social functions such as energy and water are today much more centralised than they used to be. This makes society more vulnerable, and it means that we need to be much more toe-toe when talking about security risks. This is also about something that has been debated a lot here in Parliament before: the importance of strong civil defence and a strong civil society. Electricity is not just an electricity issue; it is a social function and therefore a safety issue. In the near future, we have had several scandals in the area of security: the Transport Board scandal and the scandal in the Swedish power grid. On both of these occasions, criticisms and warnings have not been heard which have come in at an early stage and which should have been taken on board. Madam President, I would like Both of these scandals have worked tirelessly despite the fact that warning bells have been squeezed, even though warnings have been issued and despite signals that unsafe information systems may pose risks both to personal security and to national security. Afterwards, responsible ministers relate to being naive and not realizing the danger of information leaks due to lack of safety. We simply cannot afford to blame naivety afterwards. We need to be forward-looking. That is why I would have liked a more responsive approach to the great risk that could exist with such a system. I hope that we will have the opportunity to come back to this issue.
i-506f066b8d3c76a6-634	Madam President, I would like I do not think that I can have such a much more responsive approach, Lotta Olsson, than that I am prepared to see in every situation whether the benefits exceed any possible risks. I am also prepared to work with the Moderates and other parties in this House to ensure that we do the best for Sweden's electricity consumers and electricity producers.
