i-15edd3327161c62e-6	Madam President, I would like Mrs Quicklund has asked me what I intend to do to prevent the development of an increased number of deaths in the workplace. The fact that people are seriously injured or even dying at work is totally unacceptable. Nothing but a zero vision can apply to death at work. Since the government took office last term of office, raising the level of ambition for health and safety at work policy has therefore been an important priority. The Government has decided on a national strategy for health and safety at work for 2016 – 2020, which includes a zero vision against fatal accidents. The resources in health and safety policy have been strengthened by more than SEK 100 million annually. Overall, the increased resources for the Swedish Work Environment Authority have meant that around 100 new occupational health and safety inspectors have been employed. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has implemented and re-reported the assignments given in connection with the work environment strategy regarding zero vision and prevention of accidents at work. The re-reported assignments have given new knowledge and are used in the agency's continued work for the zero vision against fatal accidents. Special inspection efforts have been carried out in the construction, manufacturing, transport and staffing sectors in recent years. In 2019, an even greater focus on the construction industry is planned. The Swedish Work Environment Authority quickly inspects every fatal accident. In 2018, a mid-term review of the OSH strategy was carried out in consultation with the social partners. The Swedish Work Environment Authority was then commissioned to report in a comprehensive way on the Agency's activities for the remainder of the work environment strategy, for example regarding the work with the Government's zero vision of fatal accidents and prevention of accidents at work. The report will be submitted to the Government in February 2019. During 2019, an evaluation of the occupational health and safety strategy will begin. Preventing fatal accidents at work is one of my most important priorities as Minister of Labour. I have therefore invited expert authorities and the social partners to a meeting in which I would like to listen and discuss on the basis of their experience and suggestions in order to break the negative trend in the number of fatal accidents at work. Targeted inspection efforts against the most affected sectors are important, as is the continued development of existing regulatory cooperation. Everyone needs to take responsibility in the systematic work environment work at each individual workplace. By deliberately working to prevent accidents at work, we also reduce the risk of fatal accidents. Employers have ultimate responsibility for the working environment.
i-15edd3327161c62e-12	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Employment, for your answer. I would like to begin this interpellation debate by truly regretting the deaths that have occurred at our workplaces around the country. It is a parent, a spouse, a son or daughter who has gone to work but has not returned home. Each individual case is a great tragedy, and every death is a death too much. I'm sorry to hear that again. The reason for my interpellation is that the number of deaths over several years has increased markedly. In January, we also had the highest number of deaths — nine — in ten years. In 2018, 58 persons were killed. In four years 170 people have been killed – 170 people! The sectors most affected are transport, construction and land/forest. Deaths are thus increasing for the fourth year in a row, and the trend is in the opposite direction to the government's goal of reducing fatal accidents. A new strategy on health and safety at work was implemented in 2016 and included a zero vision. A zero vision should also give rise to a clear strategy and sufficient resources and efforts linked to achieving the objective. It should be, but it's not like that. The Minister for Labour is happy to correct me, but I do not find the facts showing anything else about this. Let me give you some examples of what has come out of the debates on this subject in the past. The Swedish Work Environment Agency's Deputy Director General Håkan Olsson has stated that the government is missing the target, as the deaths are increasing. He also expresses the view that we cannot accept the death of someone, it must be a zero that applies. He also says that there are no concrete targets for reducing deaths per year.
i-15edd3327161c62e-19	Svenska Dagbladet has stated in a review and report series that the cooperation between the relevant authorities does not work completely painlessly, which is alarming in itself and is very close to the sphere of influence of the Minister for Labour. The Parliamentary Ombudsman, JO, has previously criticized the Police Authority and the Swedish Prosecution Authority regarding the fatal accident that occurred at LKAB in Norrbotten. After four years — four years! – the investigation was not yet closed. As the limitation period is five years, this was therefore in danger of being depreciated. The Minister may comment on this. In a report, the Police Authority has also indicated in the past that the handling of occupational health and safety offences is inadequate. The duration of proceedings is too long, and too few investigations led to prosecutions and convictions. My question is: what does the Minister for Labour say about what these witnesses describe to us? What is the responsibility of the Minister for Labour?
i-15edd3327161c62e-23	Madam President, I would like This is an extremely important issue. You should of course feel the security when you go to work that you should come home after work. Families of those who go to work must know that their relatives come home. There have been far too many fatal accidents. I very much appreciate that the question has been asked, and I also appreciate that the government is giving priority to the issue. This issue is not new to the government. As early as 1 June 2016, there was a zero vision of fatal accidents at work. It was part of a comprehensive strategy on health and safety at work to strengthen workers' rights at work when it comes to getting injured or ill or even dying at work. Unfortunately, there was no agreement on this zero vision, but the bourgeois parties voted against. Fortunately, however, the proposal went through, and now there is a zero vision of fatal accidents at work. It is nevertheless an important first step. Of course, we need to be better at prosecuting the crimes, that is, when someone has died at work. Unfortunately, there are often shortcomings in the working environment that are responsible for the deaths. There are far too many liberating sentences, and many preliminary investigations are closed. What is even more important, however, is to prevent fatal accidents from the beginning. We have to work at both ends, just as in the case of crime totally in society. But the best thing is what never happens, that is, the death bid that never comes. The Swedish Work Environment Authority is a key player in this context, since the Swedish Work Environment Authority plays the same role in many ways as the police do when it comes to crime. The police work both to deter crime and to prosecute. The more inspections the Swedish Work Environment Authority has the resources to do, the more chance it is to correct shortcomings in the work environment before they lead to a serious accident or death. The Government has strengthened the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Further back in time when there was a bourgeois government in Sweden, there were severe cuts at the Swedish Work Environment Authority. One third of the grant went missing at a time. It took many years for the Swedish Work Environment Authority to recover after this. The government has now invested more. As the Minister for Labour mentioned, there are now 100 more health and safety inspectors, and we must continue along this path. There is a lot of expertise within the Swedish Work Environment Authority. What can be seen as a deficiency within the police when investigating suspected occupational health and safety offences is that there are often not the same skills and resources. It is therefore important to strengthen the Swedish Work Environment Authority to help when accidents occur and to prevent accidents. An important factor is to get out to the workplace when there are suspicions of problems and that unexpected visits can be made. In that case, employers know that they can be visited at any time. But it is based on the fact that there are sufficient resources at the Swedish Work Environment Authority to make such visits. I do not think there is a quick fix on fatal accidents, but I think the government has a good budget. Now we are going to bring together the social partners, all the authorities and all those working on these issues to discuss what everyone can do. The responsibility is not just one; there is a common responsibility. It's a good start to combat the fatal accidents.
i-15edd3327161c62e-32	Madam President, I would like Just before entering the Chamber, I had a conversation with the wife of a man who was killed at work a year ago. He worked in a shaft, and the shafts fell down and buried him. She told me that I must strengthen the responsibility of employers, that it must cost more if safety rules are not complied with. This is one of the things we need to look at. We need to review regulations, periodic penalty payments and limitation periods. It is also quite correct that there are many cases of unacceptably long processing times, which raises the question of the resources and competence of police and prosecutors. Cooperation between authorities must be strengthened. That is why, during the last parliamentary term, the government took a completely new initiative on cross-government cooperation against what is called unfair competition. The Swedish Work Environment Authority conducts inspections together with the Swedish Tax Agency, the police and customs. I told the agency they're going out into the gray sector, and they told me it's not grey, it's black. Often they are companies that violate not only occupational health and safety rules but also many other rules and exploit people. There is cooperation between authorities in investigating fatal accidents. They are reported to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which always goes out on site and conducts a survey. But sometimes they cooperate with, for example, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate or the Swedish Electrical Safety Agency, which can be supervisory authorities. I do not rule out the need to strengthen cooperation between the various authorities. But I also believe that it is a question of building a safety culture. It must always be okay to say no to risks, that is, to dare to refuse risks. Employees must feel the security to always be able to say no when they perceive that they are about to participate in tasks involving risks. This can be about such things as time pressure, the conditions for how a service has been procured or issues that go beyond what is regulated by the Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations. We must also look at such things. Just as Hillevi Larsson described, during the last parliamentary term the government restored the cuts made during the bourgeois period. It has been possible to employ over 100 new inspectors. They are now trained and on duty. That is good, and it provides good conditions. We have established the Agency for Safety and Health at Work, which has the task of spreading knowledge from research to the floor of the business. It also shows that much of the knowledge that exists is not used. The government has decided on a zero vision, but more needs to be done. I have said many times, and I say here too, that I will not give up until we can reverse developments. Obviously, although many things are in place, not enough has been done. We must do what is necessary to reverse the trend of fatal accidents. No one should have to experience what the woman I just spoke to experienced, namely that her husband did not come home from work.
i-15edd3327161c62e-40	Madam President, I would like I would like to make a brief comment on Hillevi Larsson's contribution. A zero vision is meaningless if it is not filled with concrete measures. It's quite obvious. Money is also not the only effort that solves problems; it is also a lot about management, governance, efficiency, monitoring and evaluation. That's where we see flaws. I will continue with what has been said in the debate. Officials from the National Agency for Environmental and Working Environment have also previously testified that the Swedish Work Environment Authority does not take investigations of deaths at workplaces sufficiently seriously. It is very serious! How has the Minister acted in this regard? Those factors are known by public statements from these people. Last year the newspaper reported that the police in the Police Region had too little resources to handle the number of reports of occupational health and safety offences and that they were too few in investigations of death. So there is a history of too little resources. We can therefore see that there is a lack of cooperation between authorities, resources are too small, fatal accidents are not given sufficient priority, it is too long processing times and the limitation period is too short – as the Minister has just said. Yes, the list is long. The transport industry wants a developed collaboration between the Swedish Work Environment Authority and the Swedish Transport Administration. It is about investments in, for example, better roads, better maintenance of roads, ploughing, sanding, wildlife fences and so on. The transport industry therefore has clear proposals, and they have been there for a long time. That's not news. We have taken note of clear witness assignments where many describe the problem. Yet I get the impression that the government is fumbling and does not know what action to take. The Minister has also spoken about this recently. It is good to have this clarity on the part of the industry, but it is unfortunate that the conditions for good work environment work are so poor. I am absolutely convinced that every authority and the individuals who work there are doing everything they can. They are working on the conditions that exist, and we know that the resources are small. But, as I said, it is also a matter of governance and leadership – also on the part of the government. We cannot spend everything on employers, because it is the government that governs the allocation of resources. I am also clearly aware that employers have a great deal of responsibility. It is shared with safety representatives, trade unions and others. But when this does not work, the government and not least the Minister for Labour have overall responsibility. We're talking about 170 dead in four years, 58 of them in 2018. The Minister has recently said that she will listen to representatives in this area. After four years, she expresses it. The number of deaths has increased significantly over many years. The minister also expresses that she feels lost and does not know what to do. I think humility is a good thing, but now we need firm and concrete measures to prevent more deaths. I'm worried. My question to the Government is: How should I reassure those who feel the same concern as me?
i-15edd3327161c62e-52	Madam President, I would like No, money is not everything, but it is also not unimportant in this context. The Moderates and Christian Democrats got through their budget reservation, which meant cuts of 25 million for the Swedish Work Environment Agency and the risk that the new centre for working environment knowledge would go on a low-cost basis due to a substantial cut. Now we have a new government, and I hope that we can ensure that both the centre we have for work environment knowledge and the Swedish Work Environment Authority can do their work. The idea of reducing occupational health and safety crimes and accidents by cutting down on the Swedish Work Environment Agency is much like thinking that reducing crime by cutting down on the police. It doesn't solve all the troubles to bet on the police. It doesn't solve every crime overnight. But this is an important start, and the same applies in the area of health and safety at work. We should ensure that the experts at the Swedish Work Environment Authority can prevent accidents, intervene when accidents occur and try to learn from the experience – and of course ensure that the police and all other parties jointly prosecute employers. It is also a question of a balance of power between workers and employers. While we see fatal accidents, we see many people on sick leave, not least for mental diagnoses, and we see stress and insecurity in working life. This suggests that workers need to have their position strengthened, just as the Minister for Labour was at work. You have to dare say no to dangerous missions. We must also make demands on employers from the outset. It shouldn't be dangerous, and if it's dangerous, they should be brought to justice for it.
i-15edd3327161c62e-56	Madam President, I would like I do not like the use of tragic and unnecessary deaths as bats in party political bickering. But I still have to answer some of the direct errors that Saila Quicklund brings out. During the bourgeois government there were major cuts in the entire work environment work and the number of inspectors at the Swedish Work Environment Authority. The Work Life Institute was also closed down and therefore important parts of the knowledge collection in the area of work environment work. During the last parliamentary term, the government has certainly not been in a position to act. We have provided resources, we have trained inspectors and we have set up a new authority, a new strategy and a zero vision that the previous government did not want. We have started cooperation between authorities. As far as fatal accidents are concerned, this has been the case: in 2014 53 died. 2015 was 44. In 2016 it was 45. In 2017, it was 55. In 2018, it was 58. Those are terrible numbers. On average, about one person a week does not come home. But it is not an accurate picture that we have had several years of clear increases, but it fluctuates a little year from year to year. However, that is in no way acceptable. The level is unacceptably high, and we can never accept that people die at work. During the autumn and now in January and early February, we have seen an alarmingly high number of fatal accidents at work. That is really something to take seriously, and that is what I am doing. On the first day when I took office, I grabbed the fatal accidents – after time as a transitional minister, when I was prevented from acting. Saila Quicklund highlights the Swedish Transport Administration. The Finnish Transport Agency will come to me on Monday together with the Swedish Work Environment Authority, the Swedish Transport Agency and the parties – that is, employers and trade union representatives from the industries that are most affected – to discuss what needs to be done, for example if you need to strengthen cooperation. Of course, each authority and each operation has its own responsibility. For example, safety and security on the move is not just a matter of health and safety at work; it is an issue that has wider consequences and needs to be seen in a broad context. When we look at where there are fatal accidents, we see that vehicles are often involved. The combination of vehicles and humans often causes alarming accidents. It may be on the way, but it may also be in other contexts where vehicles are used. In the last fatal accident, a person was found dead under a tractor. This is an important area to look at. Another sector that stands out is agriculture and forestry. The number of fatal accidents there is not huge, but in relation to the size of the sector, the number of fatal accidents per 100,000 employees is very high. The employer always has full responsibility for safety at work, but as Minister for Labour, I always have full responsibility for political action. As I have said here several times, I do not rule out the need to do more. I think more needs to be done to reverse developments. I think these are things that increased resources for work environment management and for police and prosecutors. But I also believe that it is a matter of sectoral responsibility for things that may not directly relate to work environment work but which affect the conditions for carrying out and ensuring a safe working life for everyone. It is about creating a safety culture in every workplace and ensuring that employers take full responsibility for workplace safety.
i-15edd3327161c62e-66	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. Hillevi Larsson puts his hope in a new government. It is actually the same regime that we have had for four years; hence the great frustration. I think it is good that the Minister is saying that we should not allow fatal accidents to be a political bat in the debate. I have asked for an explanation of what the government intends to do on the very difficult issue of the increasing number of fatal accidents at work. That was the purpose. I can also briefly mention what the Alliance did in this area. Oversight was increased. Resources were put in place to provide more information in this area. It was also about knowledge acquisition, fines and so on. But let's focus on the future. I hear what the Minister says, but I still feel a great deal of uncertainty about concrete and decisive measures on this issue. As I said, we have had four years with the same minister and the same responsibilities, and trends have been clear in the number of accidents at work. The government also has the overall responsibility when it does not work, especially when the authority's responsibility and cooperation do not work. We must see concrete measures to this end. It is a question of interaction between the various actors, and it must be achieved without delay. In conclusion, I would like to express my hope for what the Minister has to say and thank you for the debate. Work environment issues are extremely important and central, and I will follow very closely the work of the government in this area.
i-15edd3327161c62e-73	Madam President, I would like Much more needs to be done, and the Swedish Work Environment Authority is also making new efforts. For example, increased inspections of work vehicles and mobile machinery, falls from altitude, trees and animals and the road environment will now be a priority. Thanks to the increased resources it has also been possible to go more on tips from people that something is not right and do targeted inspections based on those tips. I also see the possibility of expanding that business. As far as cooperation between authorities is concerned, it is absolutely my view that it has been improved, not least thanks to joint inspections. But it is also my view that there is more to be done to achieve even more effective cooperation between the authorities. I would like to thank Mrs Quicklund for the debate, and I hope that this issue will also be high on the agenda for Members of Parliament in the coming period. We need that.
i-15edd3327161c62e-77	Madam President, I would like Acko Ankarberg Johansson has asked me how I and the government will implement the Riksdag's decision on a national primary care reform. I welcome a broad commitment to close care. The Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party are in agreement within the framework of the J Anuari Agreement that a primary care reform should be implemented. The investigation mentioned by Acko Ankarberg Johansson has been working on the primary care issue since 2017. The Government then appointed Anna Nergårdh as a special investigator with the task of supporting the county councils and relevant authorities and organisations in the work of coordinating the development of a modern, equal, accessible and efficient healthcare with a focus on primary care. The task is also to develop a national plan where primary care is the point of increased proximity to the patient. The plan shall set out what is needed for a nationally coordinated change and what challenges exist. A timetable for the further work on change must also be presented, and it must be anchored with the relevant stakeholders. During 2017 and 2018, the Government has issued the report with two additional directives, including improved collaboration and coordination between health and social care professionals. A final report will be submitted by March 2020. The second interim report of the investigation was presented this summer. The report not only describes the situation, needs and opportunities, as mentioned by Mr Ankarberg Johansson, but also, for example, proposals for a nationally designed primary care assignment and proposals on the provision of skills and clarification of the patient's right to permanent medical contact if the patient so wishes. The referral response is analyzed in the Government Office. It is important to support municipalities and county councils in the best way in the transition towards good and close care. The government intends to return when the initiative in this area is designed.
i-15edd3327161c62e-83	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his answer. It is clear that there is broad political support for a primary care reform. The government intends to come back – well, that's it. But it is not good enough to repeat good and close care. We must take concrete steps in that direction. There is a risk that we promise good and close care but do not make any decisions and do not add money to the regions but just hope that this will happen. There are still disappointed people who expected a change and disappointed employees who find that it was beautiful but did not become more. Instead, it is as usual, and the shortcomings continue. Madam President, I would like Patients and healthcare employees expect a change now – a reform that changes the current situation. Today we have government-decided health guarantees, but we are too poorly staffed to be able to do this in the best possible way throughout the country. We have skills shortages, which means that those who need care will have to wait longer than is reasonable. Those who work in health care are getting worse and worse. Not all of this is reversed in a year, nor is it a term of office. It will take longer than to implement this major reform. But in the near future, we need to make the necessary decisions on the mission of primary care and provide government money so that the regions can get more permanent employees and start the change. What, then, is good and close care, and why is it important? When you don't feel well, when you're sick, the health care system should be there. It is somehow the core of welfare that we are able to deliver the care people need. If I'm acutely ill, I'm going to the emergency room immediately. But for all other occasions, which are more, we need a care that has high availability and the right skills and is close to the patients in one way or another. Primary care has had that task for a long time but still has not been able to become the broad base. There is still somewhere between 17% and 18% of the total resources in health care. This has an impact. If we are to achieve this change, we must be able to make a substantial structural change. But we cannot start by taking money from inpatient care; we must, I mean, add government money to primary care in order to start building it up and making it wider and better. That is why the Riksdag has decided 1.5 billion more already this year for this structure and 3 billion years thereafter. Madam President, I would like I wonder when the Minister of Social Affairs will present how the money will be used and, of course, whether they will benefit from the care this year. How does the government intend to deal with Parliament's decisions? Another important thing is what building blocks are used to get good and close care. I believe that a team-based approach, where patients get help with everything they need help with regardless of the skills involved, is important. The overall view is one of the important building blocks. Another part is that you should be entitled to a fixed doctor's contact and that there should be a ceiling on the number of patients. It is important both for the doctor and for other functions in primary care that you know how many patients you are responsible for. If continuity is to be achieved and thus quality achieved, the number of patients is important. My second question to the Minister for Social Affairs, Madam President, is therefore: will the government make proposals to Parliament on fixed medical contact and listing ceilings for specific functions in primary care, or will it be the hope that the regions will solve this themselves?
i-15edd3327161c62e-94	Madam President, I would like Thanks again, Acko Ankarberg Johansson, for a very important interpellation, although some of what we say may be, if you are going to be a little cress, is well known given that an investigation was actually set up by the previous government already in 2017. The second part of the report has already arrived. It has been consulted and analysed. It is also clear in the January agreement between the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals that we intend to come back with a primary care reform. It clearly mentions a permanent medical contact and the perspective of available care, also taking into account the sparsely populated areas. These issues are therefore particularly important. Exactly when we get back to you, I can't answer today. We must, of course, analyse because it is so complex, comprehensive and urgent that Acko Ankarberg Johansson describes. However, we intend to come back to the whole primary care reform. When we discuss resources and how they are used in the regions, I assume that Acko Ankarberg Johansson also engages in this dialogue with his party representatives who are involved in many regions and county councils, as well as I do. In my role as Minister of Social Affairs, I naturally intend to conduct many and close dialogues and discussions in the future for future agreements with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. We have a shared responsibility, but we do not come from the fact that the main responsibility lies with the care provider – with the regions – in terms of how their resources are distributed. We will also come back to the nature of the addition of resources in connection with our amending budget and our proposal, and of course also in the forthcoming budget proposal. With all due respect for the decisions made by Parliament, but to compare a budget reservation time and time again with the transitional government's budget, I still think it is a bit unserious. After all, Mr Ankarberg Johansson is well aware that these are the agreements in force before the transitional government presented its budget, namely that it would only extend the efforts made in 2018. There was no room for new policy initiatives. The initiatives we intend to take come in future budgets. Of course, they contain resources that will benefit the welfare and health care. It is clear that comprehensive primary care reforms are also being implemented.
i-15edd3327161c62e-100	Madam President, I would like I am grateful for the Minister for Social Affairs' answer. We may be into details, but to me they're not small. They are extremely urgent. We need a clear answer: Will the Riksdag be able to make a decision on how a national primary care assignment should be? And what about the important building blocks — fixed medical contact, roofing, and other things? It is not enough simply to wish for this and hope that the regions will get to grips with it. If there is no government control, patients and employees will at least be disappointed. I believe that governance from the state is necessary in order for us to be able to influence health care here. But let me come back to this with the money. I certainly do not take lightly the Parliament's decisions. If the Riksdag has decided anything, this is the case. In connection with the transitional budget, all parties in this House had the opportunity to table proposals. It was our proposal and that of the Moderates that won the approval of the Riksdag. Then I assume it will be done. The 1 1⁄2 billion that we in Parliament have allocated, do those regions benefit? Will the regions be able to use them this year to start building a primary care that meets our wishes? For me, it is important to know whether the government actually intends to put forward proposals that this House has decided on. Or is it just a hope: I hope the regions do this! And will the regions receive the money? They won't be able to make the transition unless they can hire more employees. I am pleased that during the last parliamentary term in Västra Götaland, 1 billion more were added to primary care. In the same way, they do so in Region Jönköping and Region Stockholm. But it's, like I said, not a good method of picking money from inpatient care right now. We need to add government money to start a change. Then, in time, restructuring can also be carried out in the regions' budget. But let it take time, so that we do it the right way and so that we don't handle inpatient care in the wrong way. Government money is necessary to cope with the transition in the future. Will it be government decisions, and will the regions receive the money for primary care this year?
i-15edd3327161c62e-106	Madam President, I would like Parliament's decision is what applies, of course. I wasn't trying to talk it off. But I wanted to say that the budget presented needs to be fleshed out, and this will come back to the government in connection with our amending budget and our proposal. Had we had a government in place already last autumn, it would have been more concrete and well-prepared proposals that could have been valid from the turn of the year. That is exactly what resulted when there was no government in place. After all, a transitional government cannot make an elaborate budget with political ambitions and will orientations. Instead, it was a budget reservation from M and KD that, with the help of SD, won the support of Parliament. This means that the specific information must be given in connection with the amending budget. I say this to be quite clear. But of course there will be additional resources for regions, county councils and municipalities. In particular, I would like to mention the municipalities when we discuss primary care. There is, I think, a strange view of who is responsible for primary care. One seems to think that it is always the regions that should have it, if one does not think that the state should provide funding and so on. I think we're missing the municipalities there. Why don't we take a joint responsibility to bring them into this discussion as well? I'm thinking a lot about how to do it. After all, we have 21 regions with which we can engage in dialogue with and sign agreements, but how do we deal with 290 municipalities, which carry out an extremely important activity? We know that in principle half of primary care is aimed at the elderly group. The resources of municipalities are used there. This needs to be considered if you want real change. Resources for primary care – to both regions and municipalities, I hope – will play a role. An investigation is now under way, which was set up in 2017. An interim report has already been produced, prepared and analysed in the Government Office. To those who listen to the debate but are not politicians, I would like to say that this means that we are working on this. Now we have many suggestions. These are good suggestions. I understand Acko Ankarberg Johansson and other representatives of other parties in the Riksdag that there is great support for the conclusions reached by Anna Nergårdh. It is important for us to ensure that this is translated into a bill so that Parliament can make decisions. Exactly what that bill will look like, I can't answer. When exactly it comes, I cannot answer either, but we have already come a long way. Of course, it feels good to me as Minister of Social Affairs for a month now that such solid basic work has been done by my representatives and that we also have the cooperation in the January agreement in support of this being a reality. The issue will definitely come back, not only for discussion but also for decision-making.
i-15edd3327161c62e-112	Madam President, I would like It is good to hear that there are proposals in a bill. But this was not on the bill list that we received last week. Then it is interesting to know when the government calculates that it will come. The proposals put forward by the government will be important for how the regions plan their activities, what resources they have and, not least, the transition that must begin. It'll take time, but it has to start now. It must be firm decisions, so that you know what you have to conform to. I would also like to mention this point raised by the Minister with regard to the work of municipalities in the field of health care, not least for the elderly. They're very anxious. Today, nurses in special housing are all too often placed in a lonely situation where they do not have enough support. There are too few nurses who can support this work situation. The only thing left is transportation to the hospital, where you get help when it is failing for the elderly. We probably need to fill up with more healthcare professionals who also have healthcare skills in the care of the elderly in order to carry out the task they have. I think we have had too little of health care in the care of the elderly. This is what makes it a rather difficult situation for many in special accommodations and also in the home service. We can discuss how this is to be done and where the resources come from, but I welcome the fact that the Minister for Social Affairs is highlighting it in this way. This is about a group that needs a lot of medical care, but once they get to the emergency department, they are mostly not triaged as the most acute ones. They need medical attention, but sometimes they have to wait. The National Board of Health and Welfare's surveys show that it is usually the elderly who have to wait the longest in the emergency room. It is a correct triage – i.e. assessment – that is done, but this shows that much more health care intervention, although perhaps at a different level, would have to be followed up to give the elderly what they need. Thank you for bringing this up by the Minister for Social Affairs. I look forward to a bill for good and close care.
i-15edd3327161c62e-120	Madam President, I would like If I don't remember wrong, the cut-off date in March is what's on the bill list. Within the next few weeks, no primary care reform has been completed, but that does not mean that it needs to take so long. We will return with this as soon as it is well worked out and ready for decision in the Riksdag. Let me also say that it is good that we get into the group of older people. After all, it is a group that is not always the focus of the political debate, although they should be the focus of both health and care. One of the proposals contained in the January agreement is a matter of close contact, which is also important. Many times it is an expression of concern about your own health or the fact that your relatives are worried about your health that you are in the emergency department. It's not really where you want to be, but you want to find another way to feel safe. I think solid care contact can be a way to go. When we discuss primary care and health care, we also need to talk about the whole, how we prevent and ensure that needs do not increase exponentially in the way we otherwise look forward. It will be difficult to match the needs of staff reinforcement in care for the elderly with only an increase in the number of employees. We also need to ensure that people need to seek treatment to a lesser extent in emergency rooms and in primary care. We must find ways to prevent better than we have done so far. But it is clear that the addition of resources will be significant. We in all parties should reflect on how we prioritise among the resources available, so that they benefit the people who need them most, i.e. people who are sick or in great need of health care.
i-15edd3327161c62e-125	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson has asked me a number of questions about the government's work on developing a national strategy and modernised legislation for drones. In the Government's aviation strategy adopted in January 2017, we emphasise the potential of the new technology with increased automation, digitalisation and remote control. Drones have made a large and important entry into aviation in a short time, and the area is characterised by a rapid pace of innovation. Last February, I invited representatives from the drone industry and government agencies to a round table on the opportunities and challenges of the new technology. The Government then instructed the Swedish Transport Agency in June 2018 to produce data on unmanned aircraft, so-called drones. The basis shall include, among other things, a factual and current description of the use of drones in Sweden, analyses of potential development areas and challenges, and any need for changes to the national regulatory framework. The assignment shall be reported to the Government Office no later than 30 June of this year. During the spring, the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority also reported on its government mission to conduct an in-depth study on the design of Swedish airspace. The mission includes a description of how the introduction of drones affects airspace capacity in uncontrolled airspace, terminal area and control zone. I would also like to mention that in an interim report last year, a government inquiry submitted proposals for amendments to the Protection Act concerning drones, among other things. The proposals include clarifying the access ban to the explicit application of unmanned aircraft and other unmanned vehicles and empowering security guards to intervene against unmanned vehicles, including by force to the extent that other means are insufficient and justified by the circumstances. The proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office. In addition, the new EU aviation safety regulation has now come into force, setting the foundations for common EU rules for drones. Detailed rules will be decided in the spring. Vinnova also granted SEK 30 million to 23 innovative drone projects during 2018. There is therefore intensive work on drones in several departments and authorities. As regards Parliament's announcement of a national strategy for drones and modernised legislation, the Government Office is currently preparing it.
i-15edd3327161c62e-131	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its answer. We have discussed the issue of drones and a national drone strategy on previous occasions. It was a little bit against that background that I asked the three questions that I asked the Government. I wanted to get an update on how the work is going on in the Government Office. And I was wondering, when can we get some kind of satisfaction from the announcement that there's going to be a national drone strategy? Is it still the case that the Government is questioning the need for one, as he did the last time we saw him, and prioritising work on other strategies, such as the good strategy, higher? There is no right or wrong answer to those particular questions, but it may be interesting to know. Perhaps it is a comment on the substance that the Government begins its reply by stating that a number of questions have been asked. I've never got an answer to an interpellation that starts like that. The orthodox is usually that you read out the questions that have been asked, but if you do not want to answer the two later with more than that it is prepared in the Government Office, it is possibly an effective way of keeping this aside. This principle is also illustrated by the two previous interpellation responses that have been given in this House today. The Government's colleagues, both the Minister for Labour and the Minister for Social Affairs, read out the interpellant's questions before giving the answer. It sounds great to have round-table discussions with the industry. I think it is very positive that there is such a dialogue. I also think it is a good thing that additional data from the Swedish Transport Agency are being taken into account in this area, and I think it is good that we are working on this issue. What I am looking for or asking for is some kind of target image, more than saying that you should be at the forefront. We have talked about this on some previous occasions, when I have explained my point of view. At national level, we should look at things such as those that are being looked at in the Netherlands. One looks at how an automated air traffic control system specifically for drones could look like so that one can better hold this together in the airspace in a safe way that does not mean that one has to have a telephone line to the air traffic control, for example. It is about working with autonomous activities in a much more efficient and secure way. This is something that I know is being worked on, for example, in the Netherlands. The answer there is that the industry may not yet be ready, but then you are at least state-owned on the ball and want to push it in that direction. Such indications shine with their absence from the Swedish Government for the time being. I would also like to put a question to the Government regarding the possibility for security guards to intervene, if necessary by force, in order to ward off threats from drones against protective objects. This raises the issue of powers and capabilities. Our police have had a very big problem in gaining the ability to ward off this kind of threat. I do not feel that the issue has been resolved properly yet, if I am to be completely frank. The question then is: What measures are being taken within the Government Office to ensure that this form of shell protection against our protected objects is ensured when this legislation and everything comes into place? It is about having not only the legal basis but also the actual ability to do so. I think it's so important. It's very hard to shoot down a drone with a paragraph.
i-15edd3327161c62e-141	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson! I will honestly say that I very much appreciate the commitment to this issue. I know that we both share the enthusiasm for all the possibilities that drones can offer for service and services as well as for control and surveillance. But we are also aware of the risks involved. It is a technique that can be used to interfere with communications or otherwise interfere with social order. That is why the dual perspective must be included. That was one of the starting points when I invited to round table discussions during the last parliamentary term. There were representatives of both the total defense and the police to monitor precisely the protection aspects. But it is of course about everything from hobbies to people who work professionally with drones, not least the aviation industry that works with drone development. Sweden is at the forefront. We are well ahead in the development and use of drones. What has been important to me has been to ensure that we do not do a job that can then be done again. We had to wait for the new EU aviation safety regulation. It came into force last autumn. It sets very clear frames. We've got work going on with Airspace 2040. I really want the airspace to be available to drones, preferably in the form of a future U-space. It could be an excellent model for a controlled use of drones. But then it must be done in a way that does not endanger aviation safety and does not control other flights. It should be a complement with services and services that do not cause us to get disruptions from civil aviation, not least, which is incredibly important for Sweden. This has therefore been the starting point. It'll take some time. I am aware that Erik Ottoson and many others in Parliament have been impatient. But I can also say: It was lucky that we did not in advance develop a drone strategy that had already been obsolete. We need solid evidence. We can follow the technological developments that are now taking place. Vinnova spends SEK 30 million on this, and several different projects are presented. I think it's 23 different projects. It's almost just the imagination that's the limit. It is incredible what application we can now see in climate research, in firefighting or in services and services. But we need to have a regulatory framework that works. The first point for my work is to ensure that all legal products are in place so that we do not develop the technology that we have been using since then, to lay down rules for both m ommer siella actors and other social actors when it comes to the use of one of drones and to ensure that this takes place in an order that makes us in step with e uropeic development. This is an issue that I believe will be discussed more widely within the European Union. Jag knows that there is an interest not only in the Netherlands but also in more European countries. Alla is keen not to make its own inventions or regulations and that we in the European Union jointly get regulations that allow us to have both type-approval and applications in a good way. J ag can guarantee that we will continue to work on getting a solid basis for the work on drone strategy n and ensuring that we have both e uropeic as well as total defence aspects and commercial aspects. In this process Erik Otto's son is also warmly welcome, because I think it is important to bring that expertise with him.
i-5bFc3Bv5tn2MLiFFhkCpmk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the developed answer! I think it is good that we have the common idea that it is the imagination that sets the limits. Then I guess me and the government will have to compete for who has the most imagination. At the same time, I believe that, when we work together in the European Union in this context, we must aim to be among the most innovative and sometimes at the forefront. We have received this response before when it comes to various problems that have sailed up, including how to handle drones within our control zones. I was early in thinking that we should go ahead and not wait for the Air Protection Regulation but actually dare to do things before, because we know about how it takes to land. It was also time critical to be able to manage control zones and drones within certain frameworks within the framework of our national regulations. I received in response from the representatives of the Government exactly what the Government said now, namely that we must do this together with the European Union and wait for the European work. Then the Swedish Transport Agency went on to land them in that we probably need to do something before the EU. They did, and it actually got a lot better. Then you could fly at an altitude of up to 50 metres at a distance of 2 kilometres from the runway within a control zone. In this way we could minimise the number of unnecessary flight stops and have aviation safety at every single moment but also ensure that we do not get a lot of unnecessary stops due to the full reasonable use of drones within a large control zone. This was an example of where we have actually been able to go for e, although after many ifs and buts. There are a number of other examples where we could go for e. I'm a little perplexed. V i has an industry that is not mature and is growing up. It is not the train industry, which has been going on since the 19th century, but it has been much more short term so far. N is the industry now so immature and many question marks travel, I think that from the political point of view we need to have a picture of what we want. At present, for example, the industry does not demand automatic air traffic management ystems for autonomous drones to any significant extent. Where perhaps we from politics a should have a target image and see that it takes has a potential, perhaps not in the part of the industry that n u have v uxi t ud but in the countries of the industry that do not yet have adult t um one that we want to grow, for example around the autonomous. This is an example where we could be at the forefront. If you are serious about wanting to be at the forefront, you can not only lie in the back water of the European Union, but you must want to set a good example. D the implementation of a number of other policies over and over again. We are told in the environmental field that it is important that we do things together internationally but also that we dare to go ahead. I think this is one such example. I return to the ability to deal with the various attacks that may occur. It is not just aviation safety that is at stake, but it may also be terrorist acts and other antagonistic attacks that may arise, not only against protective objects but also in general. The ability to combat antagonistic attacks from the air has improved, but it is still not so great that I feel that we have the security that we really deserve.
i-5rbCAvi9LMqgiVuSMHtFD5	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Otto's son, for the questions! If it's about the ability to fight n e d, I don't want to comment on this right now. I do not think we should do that, but of course it is important that we have such a capacity and capacity. And it is important, as we are now ensuring, that we get a regulatory framework that gives law enforcement authorities, police one and other actors the opportunity to fight the intrusion of drones. As far as the rest of the regulation is concerned, I think it may be a misconception. J ag has no worries that we are in favour of e uropeic development. I like the idea that Sweden dares to push the boundaries when it comes to technological development. I have been a driving force on the issue of automated and self-driving vehicles, that is, we in Sweden have been at the forefront and where we are at the forefront and press the European Union and the Commission to develop regulations, not least because we, with our Swedish automotive industry, should be at the forefront. S breast-feeding matter applies, of course, in the aviation area. J ag has no worries that we are now fastest in developing both our own regulations and new rules and applications for drone service you. On the other hand, it was important to get the new EU aviation safety regulation in place, because they regulate the use of air space. D we cannot overlook the rules we have to deal with. D is the difference: Now it is in place. This means that there are other conditions to work with how drone development in Sweden should be. There is an ongoing assignment at the Swedish Transport Agency that will be completed by summer. There are a number of processes going on, and the workshops organised by the Swedish Transport Agency with both total defence and police or, for that matter, commercial actors have given incredibly good input. I think that's how we're going to work. We engage and mobilise all social actors to get input into what then becomes developed strategic positions. I want us not only to guess the development but also to know that we have the right basis. I would also like to say that we should be able to dare to tighten the bow hard enough to challenge not only the Swedish regulatory framework but perhaps also the European one. D is must be the ambition. For Sweden, this is not just a question of drone service development, it is a question of industrial development, of nutrition policy and of ensuring that with the technical capacity and knowledge we have, we can develop new services and applications, not least within the nfrastructure area. I note that Vinnova now has projects using drones to map the greenhouse gas methane in industrial landscapes over large areas. There are models where one can inductively charge lathers to follow power lines and in this way be able to have a completely different automated test of our power supply systems. There are models where you can use the mountain rescue service a better with the help of drones and find people who have been hidden under avalanches. All of this will have an incredible social benefit. Let us ensure that we have a solid knowledge base, that we have reporting from the authorities, that we empty the industry and stakeholders of the best possible knowledge, and that we then ensure that we have a common process where we put the noise high. In Sweden we are at the forefront. I usually put it this way: V i should be a permanent world exhibition when it comes to being at the forefront, not least when it comes to environment smart technology. Let us have that ambition as well as in the drone area.
i-GcpbZ6tpWR4i5mtuL8dDdR	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that, Minister. I think it's great that we have a common idea that we can do a lot. That is why, as I and several others have done, we need a national strategy. But I also think it is important that this should be taken as a matter of priority, given that it is not only about taking advantage of opportunities, but also about ensuring that these opportunities do not suffer from setbacks that may come with accidents or other problems along the way that make it necessary to back up a few steps, focus and take action. I would rather we avoid such a situation. I am pleased that we have not had any serious accidents in Sweden. There have been incidents in our neighbouring countries, including in Norway. Perhaps we need to look a little bit at how this is to be handled. That is why a strategy must be developed that makes the distinction between the rest of the aircraft and the drone flight to ensure that we mark the development area of the drones to some extent against the rest of the aircraft and say: "H is they will exist, and here they will move." It is something that the rest of the aviation industry can also be prepared for and reduce the concern that drone operations take liberties and go beyond the area that one might otherwise have been worried that they would get out, so to speak. I think it is very important that we get such a strategy in place very soon. Therefore, I would like to end by asking the question to which I did not get an answer: when can we expect such a strategy to be in place, and is it still the case that the Government feels that there are other strategies that are much more prioritised? Can we expect a quick and hard work on this forward?
i-15edd3327161c62e-166	Madam President, I would like Let me first correct Erik Ottoson. What I said in the interpellation debate prior to the elections was that the work on a good strategy was then the closest thing at hand, because it was completed. This has since been launched during the summer and is a very important instrument to strategically ensure that we develop Sweden's capacity for good freight transport in all modes of transport. We now have a freight transport council in place. It has been appreciated by all industries. I think it was right to make such a priority. It hasn't delayed the development of drones. On the contrary, we gave the assignment to the Swedish Transport Agency, and they have worked throughout this time to develop the operations and regulations of drones. It remains to be seen when we have a solid basis and when we see that we have all the input. Then we will continue to prepare the announcement made as late as March last year. I am keen that the government, when we decide on strategies, has a good basis. This is about aviation safety. Here we cannot take a chance, but here we need to know that drones can co-exist with civilian and military flights. Then we must have a solid basis. I don't want to be careless about regulating drones. I want to know that it is right, because it is about human life, security and the fight against terrorism, but it is also about commercial opportunities and development areas. That must always be the government's perspective. I appreciate the commitment, and I think it is good that Erik Ottoson is pushing ahead. It is good that we have many actors who are committed and want to see continued development of drones. However, as responsible Minister, I also have a responsibility to ensure that this is done with a regulatory framework that ensures that we create security and safety, not least for aviation. If we can do this, and it is my assessment that we can do it, then we can also come back with a comprehensive strategy in the future.
