i-VjhB6pxiZzQR73g2z3Up1P	Mr President, I would like to Last week, EU leaders met in Brussels. The meeting began on Thursday afternoon with Brexit, and then, during dinner, enlargement and Turkey were discussed. On Friday we had a discussion on the EU's next long-term budget and then a discussion with incoming Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on her priorities and implementation of the strategic agenda. We also followed up on the New York climate summit in September and continued work for COP 25 in Santiago de Chile in December. Mr President, I would like to Shortly before the meeting began on Thursday, the negotiators of the EU and the United Kingdom agreed on a new solution for the border between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. The proposed agreement regulates the UK's withdrawal from the EU. This agreement means, among other things, that Northern Ireland remains in the customs territory of the United Kingdom but with the EU acquis and VAT levels. Border controls will then take place at the external border, not at the border on the Irish island. The agreement also provides for the consent of the Parliament of Northern Ireland to extend the agreement every four years. Overall, the agreement follows the guidelines laid down for the negotiations on Brexit, and the European Council was able to endorse it. We, of course, on the part of the government, regret that the UK is leaving the EU, but the UK continues to be a strategically important partner for us. The agreement that has now been reached is an important step on the road to an orderly exit, which in itself lays the foundations for continued close cooperation with the British. This is welcome. However, nothing is yet ready, as Members will be aware. We are still waiting for approval in the British House of Commons and by the European Parliament. During dinner, enlargement was discussed. There is concern among some members that the enlargement process will have its own momentum and will in practice become irreversible, whether or not the countries comply with the enlargement criteria. Several want to see a clearer link between the country's reform efforts and the enlargement process, a link that can be used if the country's reform efforts go in the negative direction. We agreed to return to the issue of opening negotiations for Albania and North Macedonia with a view to the EU-Western Balkans Summit in May next year. We also discussed Turkey's military offensive in northern Syria. We were able to note the information provided by the US and Turkey on Thursday evening on the suspension of Turkey's military offensive, but at the same time we reiterated the EU's condemnation of this offensive. It is a violation of international law and undermines the stability and security of the whole region, not least because it makes the fight against Daish more difficult. Of course, it also causes a severe suffering in an already hard-tested population. From the Swedish side, we have therefore been the driving force for an EU-wide arms embargo. Sweden has stopped arms exports to Turkey, and it is gratifying that the other Member States have done the same. We have declared ourselves open to further joint action. We received an account of Turkey's drilling for natural gas in Cyprus' exclusive economic zone. Cyprus President Nicos Anastasiades explained that the situation has rather worsened since we met in June, and it is therefore good that the EU is now ready to take further targeted action against legal persons involved in the illegal test drilling. Mr President, I would like to We had a long discussion on the next EU Multiannual Financial Framework. The discussion focused on three issues: the total volume, the division between different policy areas and, finally, conditionality. The span between those who want to keep spending down and those who want an expansive budget was strikingly large. My reply was clear: we must adapt the budget to the fact that a large Member State is now leaving the EU, and we must keep the expenditure to 1% of the EU's total budget. With this input, I thought, along with our closest like-minded people, Denmark, the Netherlands and Austria, that the proposed span was too high. A modern budget that equips us for new future challenges requires a different distribution between policy areas. In practice, the Presidency's proposals represent an increased share of the EU's agricultural policy. Rather, we want to see a redistribution in favour of joint actions in the areas of security, migration, competitiveness, research, the environment and climate change. The Member States are still a long way from each other. At the same time, it was gratifying that there was greater support for the link between payments from the budget and respect for the rule of law. I stressed that we want to see a clear link between solidarity and fair responsibility in migration policy and support from the EU budget. The debate did not result in an agreement, nor was the idea. The countries are still a long way from each other, and it will now be up to the Finnish Presidency to prepare a numerical negotiating box for the further negotiations at the European Council in December. Mr President, I would like to The incoming President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, presented the priorities for his term of office and his thoughts on the implementation of the strategic agenda. She has an ambitious programme. The Commission's role is crucial for the implementation of the strategic agenda agreed by the European Council in June. I and several of my colleagues stressed the importance of not losing momentum in deepening the internal market. This particular market is one of Europe's strongest successes, and it is crucial to our competitiveness and prosperity. It was gratifying to hear Mr von der Leyen's determination to pool his Commission's efforts to combat climate change. In the fight against climate change, we will seize the opportunity to revitalise European industry through climate change change and strengthen our industry's competitiveness in the climate-friendly economy of the future. Finally, we adopted conclusions on the one hand on the global climate negotiations and, on the other hand, on the shooting of Malaysia Airlines MH17 in July 2014. This, Mr President, was the report back from the meeting.
i-EdbmWks2z7Yf13DPgeBXY7	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your accounting. Above all, I would like to dwell on enlargement. As the Prime Minister knows, both the Commission and the European Parliament have proposed that Albania and North Macedonia should be allowed to start their application processes. Both I and the Prime Minister know that it is a long journey from being an applicant country to possibly eventually becoming a Member State. There are nearly 70 control points and possibilities to interrupt the journey. From what I understand, there was a large majority at the European Council which thought that both North Macedonia and Albania should be allowed to begin their membership processes but that this was held against by France. This is the second time in less than six months that the two countries will have to call the hand of the European Union. I would add that this is a major setback for the pro-European government in North Macedonia, which has made a great deal of reform effort. President Donald of the European Council called the outcome a failure for the EU, and it should reasonably be in the self-enlightened self-interest of the EU to actually start this process for Albania and, above all, North Macedonia. It is about geopolitics: if Europe withdraws from the Western Balkans, that space will be filled with pro-Russian interests, which is not good for security and stability in Europe. I felt, Mr President, that during the consultation of the European Council last Wednesday, the Prime Minister expressed himself remarkably vaguely and briefly when he discussed the enlargement process. He said that the government can agree to additional conditions being imposed but also accept that the negotiation process should begin. In my opinion, this position does not express any clear political will. Mr President, I would like to I would like the Prime Minister to explain which line Sweden had linked to the enlargement negotiations and how it works to get an impact on that position.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-14	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt about that. Sweden is in favour and has driven this. Ever since the Commission proposed that negotiations be opened between North Macedonia and Albania, we have supported this approach. It has also been made very clear. So that question mark does not exist. However, as Pål Jonson here points out, there are differences of opinion. It's not just about France. There was a discussion about whether one could take just one of the countries, and then it is North Macedonia that would be ahead of the tube. Several have pointed out that this would create a different type of instability in the area. However, it is quite correct, and everyone understands, that this is very sensitive, for the simple reason that there are other interests here. Here is Russia, here is Turkey, here is Saudi Arabia and there are other interests as well. That is why Sweden's position has been very clear that we would prefer to see this opportunity. The perception from Sweden is therefore clear. It has been reported both before and after. On the other hand, there was a willingness: if a compromise were to give Albania, for example, additional conditions for its negotiations and/or for North Macedonia to take precedence, we were prepared to discuss it, in order to take a step. Now there was no such appetite, and these decisions require unanimity.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-19	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer to my question. I feel that the position now presented by the Prime Minister is clearer than that of what was said at the meeting of the European Council on Wednesday, and I welcome that. I believe that the Prime Minister and I agree that there are clearly challenges to the enlargement process. We know that the pace of reform stops when you go from applicant country to Member State, but we also know that enlargement has brought great gains both from a security policy and from an economic perspective for Sweden and the rest of Europe. It is therefore important that it continues and that attention be paid to all the efforts made – not least in North Macedonia, where they have even changed their name in order to get this process going. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the government will take any steps to ensure that the EU has a united position in this area before the May meeting. I do not think it is in anyone's interest for the Union to be as divided as it appeared last week.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-22	Mr President, I would like to If there is a lack of clarity in the EU Board, it is perfectly possible to ask. If one feels that a position is not clear, I would appreciate it if one asked: What is the position? The position has been clear from the beginning. We believe that the two countries that had a 'yes' from the Commission would be allowed to start negotiations. These negotiations are processes that take a long time. It is not that if we say yes now you will become a member next year. It can take a very long time, and it is also built into the process that it should be taken step by step. It should be measured whether it works or not. As far as unity is concerned, it is not the case that Sweden can decide that there should now be agreement in the European Council. However, Sweden will speak in favour of this. We need to show these countries that they belong to the EU and the Western part – yes!
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-26	Mr President, I would like to Turkey's invasion of northern Syria is a proposed violation of the UN Charter, international law and international humanitarian law, but also of the declarations of intent given by Turkey in connection with its EU approach. Following Turkey's previous invasion of Afrin in north-west Syria, the Kurdish majority population there is subjected to brutal repression including executions, organised murders, kidnappings and evictions. Turkey's objective is ethnic cleansing. Mr Erdo is planning to move in Sunniarabs from Turkey to divide the Kurdish population and make a future democratic Kurdish state demographically impossible. Turkey is committing these abuses together with the so-called Syrian national army, a concoction of jihadists, terrorist groups, mercenaries and robbers, who are trained and funded by Turkey but which was started and run by the so-called Syrian interim government. What makes the situation a little odd is that the Syrian interim government is receiving support not only from Turkey but also from both the EU and Sweden. In paragraph 12 of the conclusions of 16 April 2018, the EU Foreign Affairs Council states that it will provide support for local civil government structures in opposition areas, including by working with the Syrian Interim Government. These conclusions are supported by Stefan Lövven's government, while we as the only party specifically warned that these groups were not suitable as partners. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether he regrets that his government supported the Council conclusions and thus gave its express support to the Turkish-allied interim government and the jihadistarmé that is now ravaging northern Syria. I also wonder whether this position is still valid on the part of the European Union.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-31	Mr President, I would like to What the Foreign Ministers decided in 2018 has not been discussed by the European Council. At one stage, supporting a force that works for a peace settlement in Syria does not mean releasing the same force for everything that can happen in the future. I do not know exactly to what extent they have been involved in this, but there is no doubt as to where the European Union stands with regard to this invasion: it violates international law, it is a major humanitarian suffering and it makes the whole region uncertain, and therefore it is condemned. That is why the Foreign Affairs Council has also instructed the security services to review the steps that can be taken to show that this is not acceptable. I cannot specifically refer to the previous decision. In the European Council, we have not decided how we stand about it. I can only say that this and now is a strong condemnation of this invasion and that the European Union will continue to work to see what sanctions can be taken to mark.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-33	Mr President, I would like to I think the answer I receive is relatively weak. The position taken by the Foreign Affairs Council on aid to the Turkish-aided interim government is still valid. I cannot see that the Foreign Affairs Council has decided otherwise during the period that has been since this decision was taken. This means that the Foreign Affairs Council or the European Council, with one hand, condemns the Turkish invasion in rather strong terms, as the Prime Minister says, but at the same time expresses their support for the organisations which actually carry out this invasion: the Turkish-backed interim government and the Syrian national army. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister must understand that it affects the credibility of the Union when, on the one hand, it condemns and, on the other hand, expresses support for the same organisation. This must nevertheless give rise somewhere to the idea that you do not really know what you are doing in the European Union.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-35	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, the Foreign Affairs Council is not the same as the European Council. There are two very different bodies. If one Council is discussing something, that does not mean that the other has. The European Council has not discussed or taken a position on this. Secondly, if this was a question that was discussed in 2018, there may be a difference between the situation then and now. The EU is very clear, the foreign ministers as well as the European Council: this is to be condemned. We are currently working on the sanctions that can be applied precisely to inculcate the seriousness of the situation. It is a violation of international law and humanitarian suffering, and it weakens the region. That is why the European Union will show very clearly where it stands on this issue.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-37	Mr President, I would like to I must thank the Prime Minister for his report! It is always interesting to hear what has been on the agenda. In the media there has been a lot of Brexit – it feels like it has only been, but the re-report indicates that as usual there have been many more things that have been discussed. The long-term budget is approaching a sharp stage. It's interesting to think about where it goes. The objective of holding down and ensuring that it is a restrictive budget but also that it should be more modern has been a clear government grant. There have also been discussions linked to the discounts that have been available for some countries. The budget is more interesting to call in terms of the balance between paying in and being able to benefit from joint action within the EU. On our part, we have often said that Sweden's agricultural competitiveness must be safeguarded in the transition that we see need to be made in the future. We have also talked about the possibility of one that exists through that part of the budget actually making major environmental efforts as an important part of the transition. We can see that the green industries have a unique and special position and opportunity, but then you have to do this the right way. This spring there was progress in which 23 out of 27 countries supported net zero emissions. There are four countries that have not really taken the step in and are there. My question is: did the meeting make further progress with regard to the four countries that are still there? Is it clearly linked to budgetary work? How will this work be put in place to actually bring the whole of Europe into the important transition that we have to make in the future?
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-42	Mr President, I would like to I will start with the discussion on level and modernisation as well as on the so-called discounts. Unfortunately, one can say that the discussion on the one hand probably did not lead us closer together, to be honest. On the other hand, we perhaps did not have that ambition either, but this meeting was most likely intended to provide an opportunity, from the presentation by the country holding the Presidency, to explain what positions it has, and it made that very clear. Then, perhaps, the discussions can get started. Now that there is a numbered negotiating box, hopefully in December, the discussions can probably continue and the negotiations can get started more. But my assessment is that it is not possible to arrive at anything in December, but it will take longer. That's how far apart we are. As far as agriculture and the competitiveness of Sweden are concerned, we felt, as I said, that agricultural policy is now getting relatively more according to the latest proposal. We want to see something else. Then it was discussed to redo CAP and give it a different structure. There are many who promote environmental factors, so even those countries that want to see a large share of agriculture also want to see the link with the environment. That is not to say that it is a total set-up, but there is a clear ambition in quite a number of countries to see environmental issues as an important element. As far as net zero is concerned, I can say that the countries that are opposed are still opposed, and it is linked to the economy. They want to see some form of aid for their conversion – the great change that Poland, in particular, is so dependent on coal, has to do. It is clear that it is easy to connect to the MFF, but there has also been talk of other possibilities to support that transition. However, some form of financial support will be required.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-46	Mr President, I would like to Another part that has also been up and which we are perhaps a little surprised that it so far sounds relatively easy to get involved in budgetary work is the rule of law and conditionality, so that there should be clarity in all the countries of the European Union in terms of freedom of expression, freedom of the press, the rule of law and so on. What is a little interesting is that it is so far a framework without so much detail in. It is always easier at that stage to agree that this should be introduced. But as you know, it is in the details that a certain unsympathetic little gentleman lives, and then you have to think about what the work will look like in the future, how the framework will be clarified and filled with content and how that work will be carried out so that there will be a majority for it once it lands on the table.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-48	Mr President, I would like to I share Annika Qarlsson's concern that it is easy to agree on the principles at the beginning. It was a discussion on this in which the countries that may feel met say that this needs to be clarified. What are the factors to be included? How will the process proceed? It must, of course, be transparent. There it is still to be done, and exactly when it can be done is difficult to judge. However, it now feels like it really should be taken to the bottom, so to speak, and then you have to discuss how detailed you can be in this, what procedures should be required and so on. Nevertheless, it is hopeful that there is an awareness of the importance of standing up for the principles of the rule of law. That's good.
i-BhP4iFNwbHkNuZHpcAVB7w	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for reporting back! At the EU Board meeting that we had before the European Council, the Left Party proposed that all EU aid to Turkey be withdrawn, including the so-called pre-accession aid, which means that the EU will only pay Turkey some SEK 2.7 billion this year because it is a candidate country. The Prime Minister now re-reported from the Council that the Council condemns Turkey and that the Council and the EU are working on sanctions and on further joint action. However, while we are discussing further measures and sanctions, Turkey's violations of international law are under way. Among other things, there is now a suspicion that banned chemical weapons are being used against the civilian population. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister what is being discussed more specifically in the European Council on sanctions and joint action. Something has to happen. We cannot wait for these measures until the war is over and Turkey and Erdo中an have got through exactly what they want.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-54	Mr President, I would like to The Council has instructed the security services to consider which sanctions may be applied. Who are the best and most suitable? That work is in progress, and I cannot say what it means exactly or when it comes, but the Council has placed such an order. It is important, I think, that this should be put in place so that the European Union shows that it is serious. At the same time, it is important to have said that, as far as negotiating aid is concerned, it is not money that is going to strengthen Turkey's public purse, just as it is not aid to the refugees. This support is intended to strengthen civil society and the issues of equality and gender equality. It is of great importance to me that the opposition thinks it is important to have this in motion. As long as you can make a contribution to civil society and strengthen those forces in Turkey, that is a good thing. However, there is no doubt that at the same time we need to be very clear to the Turkish government that what is happening now in Syria is completely unacceptable. That is why you can do both – make sure that this work is underway for democracy, equality and gender equality in civil society while being clear to the government that this is not acceptable.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-57	Mr President, I would like to What I am concerned about is, once again, that there is talk of sanctions and joint action, but at least the Prime Minister is not prepared to work for us to withdraw the money that Turkey is receiving today. What measures are still to be taken? What sanctions remain to be imposed if we are to continue with the agreement we have on refugees at the same time and if we are to continue to pay out SEK 2.7 million just this year because we are an applicant country? The opposition that I am talking to, that is, the Kurdish opposition, does not want what I understand that Turkey should continue to receive European money. The EU is strengthening Turkey with the money we are paying out, regardless of what the EU believes it should go to. I ask again: what measures and sanctions can be taken if the EU is to continue to pay all the money?
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-60	Mr President, I would like to If that money were to be deducted, it is not Erdo an who suffers. It is not Erdo 中 an who has activities for increased rights, for greater equality, for greater equality or for strengthening civil society. It is, among other things, such organisations that receive this support. That is why a clear political opposition in Turkey has expressed it, at least so far. Of course, I'm asking about the picture there. It is clear that they want the support. It does not, therefore, affect the government of Turkey if we withdraw the aid. The same applies to aid to refugees. It is not the government of Turkey that is suffering, but a lot of refugees are suffering. I don't want that on my conscience. Again, I don't know exactly when the order that is now placed is coming, and I can't tell you what it contains. It's an order for the Secret Service. They may return to the Council with any sanctions that may be appropriate.
i-Jj9FEjpS7kfCqrYiHYjYq6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. It sounds like we agree that the size of the long-term budget should be kept down and that it is impossible for our fee to increase by 40%. I hope that the Prime Minister got an understanding of this in the European Union. The condemnation of Turkey is good. I also think that this should lead to some kind of sanctions. On the big issue, Brexit, it is an incredibly long and painful process, both for the British people who are divided and for all of us in Europe. Of course, this affects us in various ways, including, for example, the long-term budget. Now it's about the further extension and the Boris Johnson letters. He has put it this way: I would rather lie dead in a ditch than procrastinate Brexit. No one wants him dead in a ditch. However, we cannot but listen to Parliament, which wants an extension. So how do we get an orderly exit? Is it Boris Johnson's wish that the European Council should not extend the agreement or the British Parliament's wish for an extension that applies?
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-68	Mr President, I would like to As far as the long-term budget is concerned, and if there is understanding everywhere in other Member States that our contribution will not increase by 40%, I do not wish to endorse it. Simply put, the countries that are net recipients of funds see that this should increase. They can also say: But that's because the net ones get back a lot more. We who are net donors have a different philosophy. Somewhere there is the dividing line. In the end, we must find a compromise that looks to the whole. In the case of Brexit and withdrawal, Donald Tusk has formally received the letters. He now wants to consult with the leaders of the Member States. It's happening right now. But we also need to know more clearly where the British stand. We don't know that yet. Discussions are taking place today, and we do not know how the vote at 19 o'clock tonight on the laws to be implemented will go. We simply have to wait and see. For us, the most important thing has been to look at the reason for a request for an extension, which we shall consider. We want to do most of the work so that there will be an orderly exit. It's the best thing for us. That is the easiest way to achieve good cooperation agreements with the United Kingdom, both in the EU and bilaterally. So we're gonna work for it. But there must of course be a good motive for an extension. But we are positive and ready to discuss it.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-71	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. It feels very insecure. In the past, the Prime Minister and Parliament have agreed to request an extension. Perhaps the Prime Minister and the British Parliament will now have different views on whether the EU should decide on an extension. It could cause some problems. As far as the agreement itself is concerned, we have received a great deal of evidence. A rather large responsibility is placed on the Northern Ireland Parliament in Stormont, which is to continually evaluate the agreement. What happens if Parliament says, after one, two or three years, that this is not a good agreement? What happens then? Are we starting over on square one? What does the Prime Minister think will happen then?
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-74	Mr President, I would like to I say again that the Brexit process is very uncertain. That's as much as you can say. No one dares guess how this is going to go. The agreement as such states that the Northern Ireland Parliament will evaluate after four years whether or not they wish to extend. It was up when Ireland's Prime Minister Leo Varadkar was here in Sweden a few weeks ago. We asked clearly about it. For us, it has been important to listen to Ireland and to hear what risks they see. This is also the opening that Ireland has given at the hearing. They do not consider the risk to be high. Nothing can be excluded, but they consider that the risk is small because Northern Ireland is still well off. If we were to say that we do not want to be involved, other rules would simply apply. Then I think there'll be some kind of border on the island.
i-JjGrPwsy12CofAFfHtyS3g	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report given to the House. It is now even ten years since the Swedish Parliament adopted the so-called Declaration of Solidarity. It was an expression of solidarity both with the EU Member States and with the Nordic countries. We shall not be passive if any of these countries suffer a disaster or attack of any kind. It has then been followed up with the Treaty of Lisbon's solidarity clause. Like the Prime Minister, I regret the fact that Britain now seems to be leaving the EU. If that happens, they will fall away both from the solidarity clause and from the Swedish unilateral declaration of solidarity. My question is: what is the government's readiness to allow our declaration of solidarity to include, as of next Thursday, a UK outside the EU immediately?
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-80	Mr President, I would like to This is one of the perspectives that makes us animated by getting an orderly exit. The more arranged the exit is, the better the cooperation we get. Unfortunately, it is only to accept that you have voted and that Brexit looks to be done. In all the conversations I have had with both David Cameron and Theresa May and Boris Johnson, we have expressed that after Brexit we want the best cooperation from a security point of view as well. Precisely what it will result in is too early to say. There we are not yet in the discussion. I think it is important that we have that kind of cooperation. Britain is important. Both in view of the situation in the UK and their knowledge and competence, it is important to involve them in cooperation. Several countries are also interested in it. I think we need to get to that discussion quickly. Nor has it been up on the part of the United Kingdom yet. But we both see that we need to maintain strong cooperation in security policy.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-84	Mr President, I would like to As I see it, there is nothing in itself to prevent the Swedish Government from highlighting a Swedish declaration of solidarity towards the United Kingdom. We decide that alone. My belief is that, in addition to creating an expectation of reciprocity with the United Kingdom, if Sweden had acted in this way as a matter of urgency in the event of a Brexit, it would have been an example for other EU countries to follow.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-85	Mr President, I would like to Once again, we agree that discussions with the United Kingdom should continue in a number of areas of cooperation, not least on security policy. I therefore think it is appropriate to prepare the questions in the way that we should prepare them. It usually gives the best decisions. We do not have schisms with Britain, but I think they have seen us as a serious player who wants and wants good cooperation. This also applies in the area of security policy.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-87	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. It was gratifying that there could be a clear condemnation of Turkish action and Turkey's violation of international law. It is also gratifying that Sweden has been given a voice in favour of an EU-wide arms embargo. Sweden itself has stopped arms exports, and other countries are following. We are also prepared to do more. The situation is difficult. Turkey is where it is, and no matter what we have to deal with it. It is therefore even more important that we can be clear when real crimes are committed in the way that has happened. I was also going to say something about Brexit. It's easy to agree with Boris Johnson when he says we have to get Brexit done, get it done. There is an appeal to this, because we have been dealing with this issue for a very long time and must move on to the next. At the same time, this must not lead to spontaneous reactions. There's a lot at stake here. I would like to agree with what the Prime Minister has said a few times in this debate, that it is important that we avoid a harsh Brexit at all costs, because it would have huge consequences. Moreover, it is not the case that you get something done just because you vote something through and leave the EU. After that, we have the whole big job left where we will get a cooperation agreement with the United Kingdom. That's supposed to work, too. On this very subject, my questions are addressed to the Prime Minister today. Is there anything else to say about the cooperation agreement and the climate in which we proceed after this discussion? How is it affected by the tours that we see? The European Parliament has just said that it should not vote this week. Perhaps the British House of Commons will not vote either. Let's see. So what will the future climate of cooperation between the EU and the UK look like?
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-92	Mr President, I would like to I share the view of the importance of the EU's view of Turkey and the situation there. We must take it further with the order that I have referred to in the past. In the case of Brexit and get it done, this must not happen at all costs, because then we may end up in a lost situation. Of course, we will make the most of our efforts to ensure that there is an orderly exit. My assessment of both the European Union and the European Council and the United Kingdom and Boris Johnson, based on the moment he attended on Thursday, is that there is mutual respect and understanding that the situation is difficult. Above all, there is a recognition that we are lying where we are, even after leaving. We need each other. I therefore consider that there are good conditions. Everything can happen at the end, so to speak, but the EU is very clear that it wants to help to get an orderly exit and that is why this negotiation at all came about. As long as it's a signal, we had a deal. But okay, if we can follow the principles, we can consider changing some parts of the agreement. It's now done. The signal was also clear that we very much want this to work. Now, however, the ball lies with Britain, and it must be there. Depending on what the answer from there is, we will have to deal with the situation accordingly. Donald Tusk will consult all the Heads of State and Government to see what the answer will be from what happens. Uncertainty about this is so great that it is not possible to guess. We have to take it from the fact that we know Britain's answer.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-97	Mr President, the Prime Minister. I think many of us watched television on Saturday and followed the debate in the House of Commons. From having followed their counterpart to the Prime Minister's Question Time, which is usually very lively, and experienced them as fun, I was quite appalled by the way democracy works right now in the UK. Of course they have their tradition, but not all party leaders, for example, can speak in a debate on whether to leave the EU is quite astounding. I am pleased that at least we have the opportunity to say what we want to say in our own Parliament. My last question, however, is about the budget. What do you think is the best argument that bites those who want Sweden to pay more? What does the Prime Minister say about that?
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-99	Mr President, I would like to I do not comment on democracy in the UK, but I can only say that it works differently there than here. As far as MFF is concerned, there are some arguments. On the one hand, we need to have a space for reform. We cannot say that we have some scope for reform ahead of us and, at the same time, look the Swedish people in the eye and say that we should go to Brussels. I can't. We've got a lot of work to do here. Firstly, we have every reason to look at the modernisation of the budget. Nevertheless, we are talking about EUR 1 000 billion. There are, of course, opportunities to modernise it. I can understand that there are different needs, including new ones, but that is the case in all Member States. They always have to think about their own budget. You may have to add something, but then you have to remove something else. It is not only possible to add things even if it is easy to add things when it comes to other people's money. At the same time, we are clear that we want to be net contributors because we benefit from Europe. So it is not a question of that. However, we cannot take such an increase.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-104	Before the next speaker, I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that today we have a visit from the Scottish Parliament.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-105	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. The main negotiations on the EU's next long-term budget are now entering a crucial stage. For the Swedish part, it has been a strength that we have had a broad consensus and been clear about talking about a budget-restrictive line, among other things in order to keep the Swedish membership fee down and get to a more modern budget. It is important to stick to this line now that negotiations are entering the final phase. Therefore, it is with concern that I nevertheless note a certain dismay when the Prime Minister often chooses to point out that Sweden is quite alone in pursuing a budgetary-restrictive line. The same applies to the discount scheme. I heard the Prime Minister say twice in the report that there is a distance from each other. The Prime Minister has also begun to emphasise that our membership of the European Union cannot only be valued in economic terms. Of course I agree with that. At the same time, however, it risks sending signals to other EU countries that Sweden might, after all, consider a significantly increased membership fee. In fact, success in the long-term negotiations is possible. We showed this in the Moderates the last time a budget was negotiated and we were in government. I think there is a risk that the Prime Minister will do Sweden a disservice if, at this critical stage of the budget negotiations, he shows signs of resignation. We are in the final stage of negotiations. I realise that these are difficult negotiations, but Germany is quite close to us in terms of the size of the budget and the discounts. I have a question for the Prime Minister and the Government as to whether there are any clear red lines now in the final stage of negotiations.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-109	Mr President, I would like to First of all, Jessika Roswall has to face up to this. We are very clear about where we stand in the discussion. However, I can only say that the EU is important to Sweden. Otherwise, we would never have joined or defended membership. Of course it's important to us. However, we believe that the volume of the proposal is too high. Now a large Member State is withdrawing from the Union. Then you have to look at the budget. It would have been any other association. The budget can be modernised. We in Sweden must, of course, look at our fee. We are clear that we intend to keep the fee down. The distribution between policy areas needs to be looked at. You have to look at the reflow and look at discounts or correction mechanisms. Looking at the whole picture is for me the best way to deal with such a negotiation. Then, of course, it will be possible to get to a point. But to say where that line goes would not be very successful, I would say. Let us continue to have this discussion, on the one hand, here in Parliament and, on the other hand, with the other Member States. A number of countries share our view: Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and Denmark. However, it should be borne in mind that many countries are net recipients, and they have a different view. That's what I told you earlier. So this is going to be tough, but I think the best way to ensure good results is to look to the whole.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-113	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. We also received clear answers to the previous speaker's question about clarity. I would also like to point out that we have agreed on this in Sweden. To be successful in negotiations, one needs to be clear. This is particularly true at the end of the negotiations. Mr President, I would like to I have a question about conditionality, which was raised in the recent report. It is important for Sweden and for the Moderates. We have certainly welcomed it as an important part of, among other things, the fight against corruption. But I'd like to hear a little more. There is also some concern there; there have been some signals from the Prime Minister that there is opposition on this issue. How hard is the Prime Minister prepared to push the question of conditionality to ensure that this becomes a reality?
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-115	Mr President, I would like to It remains to be seen whether we are at the end of the negotiations. I don't think I'm gonna judge us to be there. This may take some time. It may take another year, and it is just as well to pay attention to it. We're not in a hurry. Of course, we want to get this right, because then all the programmes run well. But we are not going to do anything rash. We shall have a good outcome in the negotiations. Conditionality has not least driven Finland hard during its term as the country holding the presidency. Success has been achieved in the sense that now, even among those who were opposed before, several countries are saying that they can imagine such a system. But as was said in a previous line shift, we don't know what it's gonna be like. It is one thing to talk about the principle, but it is when you get to the details that you get to see what this means, what factors should determine and what the mechanism should look like. This is not, therefore, at home, but there is a greater understanding, a greater understanding of the need to stand up for the EU's fundamental values in order for this to work.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-120	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman has asked me what specific measures I and the government have taken to speed up the work to address or counteract the risks of toxic tunnels in the Baltic Sea between Sundsvall and Gotland. Lars Beckman has also asked me what specific government assignments have been given to the County Administrative Board Gävleborg regarding the situation with the poison tunnels along the coast of Gävleborg and what the government intends to take for measures to identify the location of poison barrels between Sundsvall and Gotland including Gävleborg. Jörgen Berglund also has questions about the poison barrels dumped during the 1950s and 1960s, including outside Sundsvall. Jörgen Berglund has asked me if I share his view that it is important to quickly do something about the barrels and what I and the government intend to do to ensure that the barrels are taken care of. Finally, both Lars Beckman and Jörgen Berglund have asked me what the government's assessment is that it will cost to take up or cover the dumped poison tunnels as well as the timetable for the work. Since all the questions from Members of Parliament concern the dumped poison tunnels between Sundsvall and Gotland, I give a comprehensive answer here. Mr President, I would like to Sanitation of contaminated sites from environmental toxins is an important issue for the government. This has been demonstrated time and again by increased funding for the decontamination of contaminated sites. The grant has never been as big as it is today. This amounts to almost SEK 900 million compared with just over SEK 400 million in 2014. I would like to remind you that the Swedish Parliament for the financial year 2019 decided to allocate SEK 100 million less to the grant than the Government's budget bill for 2019. At the Government's proposal, the spring change budget for 2019 then strengthened its allocation. In addition, the Government has since 2018 invested special funds earmarked for precisely reduced environmental toxins in the seas and waters, including for the remediation of contaminated sediments. The government is actively working for cleaner seas and waters. The State contribution for the clean-up of contaminated sites is for operations where there is no liability to pay for all or part of the operation. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has developed a national plan for the allocation of funds to ensure that after-treatment measures are implemented in the most priority polluted areas. For me, it is important that we deal with our old environmental debts responsibly by reducing risks to people and the environment. Through increased funding, the government has enabled more active work to be done so that more contaminated areas can be investigated and addressed. Unfortunately, however, there are many contaminated areas in Sweden, of which as many as 8 000 are considered to pose a high or very high risk to human health and the environment. Only in Västernorrland and Gävleborg County there are nearly 6 00 items in risk classes 1 and 2, of which nearly 100 are in risk class 1. The priorities at both regional and national level are therefore necessary to address the areas of greatest risk. I share Lars Beckman's and Jörgen Berglund's concerns, and I believe that it is urgent that studies be carried out to assess how the barrels pose a risk to human health and the environment and then decide on appropriate measures. The county administrative boards work on the basis of their role as supervisory authority. The County Administrative Board of Västernorrland is now working on a supervisory matter in order to determine the environmental liability regarding the identified dumping area outside Sundsvall. To date, only about 3 600 of the dumped barrels have been identified. In June 2019, the Government commissioned several authorities, including the county administrative boards, to jointly develop better knowledge to deal with contaminated sediments in seas and lakes. These missions can contribute to better knowledge of, among other things, the location and risks of the remaining dumped poison barrels. The government has no estimates of what it would cost to cover or pick up the dumped poison barrels. It is difficult to know when the studies and risk assessments have not been carried out. However, only the actual examination of the barrels in the dumping area is estimated to cost between about SEK 10 million and SEK 30 million. What we know is that both investigations and remediation measures are costly and often take time and that the government has made several investments in remediation. In addition, more knowledge is needed about contaminated sediments and the spread of environmental toxins in the sea and water, a work that the government has begun.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-132	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think that a great many people are surprised that there may be 23 000 dumped poison barrels in the Baltic Sea with up to ten tonnes of mercury in them without the government having taken any action in this area. When you go into the government website and write a poison can, I can tell you what the answer is. Try it yourself. It'll be zero. There is not a single initiative on the government's website when you search the word poison cans on the government's website. If you are looking for government assignments to the County Administrative Board in Gävleborg you will find nothing. There is no government commission for the County Administrative Board of Gävleborg to work with the poison tunnels. It may of course be because, as the Government says in the answer, they have pointed out the County Administrative Board in Västernorrland to work on the question. However, even if this has been done, there are no clear government mandates to deal with the issue. I find that troubling. I read an interview in Fiskejournalen with an environmentalist in Sundsvall called Tove Gulliksson. She says quite frankly, the politicians are talking, but very little is happening. That is, unfortunately, what we have to say about the Government's response. I think many people expect the Government to act very forcefully to take mercury out of the water. Madam President, I would like This is a real environmental policy. Every minute that passes, every second we stand here talking in the speaker's chair, we risk the barrels crumbling. We risk breaking the barrels. We run the risk of toxic mercury entering the Baltic Sea. I would have liked to see a strong action plan from the Government. I would have liked to see a clear government initiative which states that it is unacceptable that we do not know where 20 000 poison barrels are between Sundsvall and Gotland. Madam President, I would like Our authorities don't know where 20,000 poison barrels are. We know that they are somewhere in the water between Sundsvall and Gotland, but we do not know where. I think it's indecent. It is organised so in Sweden that it is the government that has the right of initiative. It is the government that can control its authorities through its regulatory letters. It is the government that has the full right of initiative in this area. There has been an investigation at the County Administrative Board in Västernorrland for 14 years, which my colleague will be talking about. We've been investigating who's responsible. I mean, we can't wait another 14 years. It is not even certain that there are those companies that had all the permits and did everything right, even if we would never accept it today. I believe that citizens expect a government to take this issue seriously. I am absolutely convinced that the 23,000 poison barrels will leak. It's not a question of when. Had they been in the Stockholm archipelago, for example, I think that the commitment to poison tunnels would have been much greater than now when they are along the coast of Norrland. It would be one of Sweden's biggest environmental disasters if ten tonnes of mercury went into the Baltic Sea. I am not quite satisfied with the Government's response, as is clear. I will come back to that in my next speech.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-145	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. At the risk of breaking open doors, I would like to say that mercury is toxic. It's very toxic. It's one of the most dangerous environmental toxins we know of. Long-term poisoning of mercury results in damage to the digestive tract, kidneys, brain and central nervous system. Children are more sensitive than adults. Unborn babies are more sensitive already in the foetal stage, and the most sensitive period is when the brain and nervous system develop. Mercury can be transmitted to foetuses by crossing the so-called blood and brain barrier. According to research, it is likely to inhibit even at very low levels development in children. Mercury can also react with enzymes. It is therefore harmful already at low levels, and enrichment of so-called methylmercury in the food chain is a major problem for humans and animals from the foetal stage. Madam President, I would like From 1 June 2009, the Alliance government, led by the Moderates, introduced a total ban on mercury in view of its environmental toxicity. This prohibition also included the use of dental treatment amalgam. All this was done to prevent this poison from coming into the wild, spreading into the water and into animals and humans. From 2011, there is a ban on exports of mercury within the EU. It is a ban that Sweden and the then alliance government pushed on to get through. In 2018, a new regulation entered into force that implements the Minamata Convention. The Minamata Convention is a UN Convention adopted in 2013. It was also Sweden and the moderate-led alliance government driving to bring about. It also introduced, among other things, an import ban, new restrictions on amalgams and rules on the storage of mercury waste. Madam President, I would like There is certainly reason why the legislation has been tightened up more than once in the case of mercury. That's good, that's right, and it's important. That is why it becomes so strange when the government, with the Minister for the Environment at its head, now does not realise the seriousness of the 23 000 barrels on the bottom of the sea containing precisely mercury. The concern is that the Minister for the Environment shares with me. I am absolutely convinced of that. But with concern, the barrels won't come up. Concerns will not prevent mercury from leaking into the Baltic Sea unless it is already happening. It's action that counts. I'm very worried that the Minister for the Environment won't act knowingly. The more mercury is supplied to society, the more concentrations in the environment increase. Mercury that has already spread in the environment persists for a long time and accumulates in both soil and water and living organisms. If we act now to remove the poison barrels, we have a chance to stop a lot of mercury from leaking out. If we do not, we have failed and get even more toxic mercury, which for a long time ends up in our ecosystem. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask the Government: when are the barrels coming out of the sea? Is it this term of office, or when? Does the Minister of the Environment intend to intervene and speed up the process that has begun to get things moving? If not, why? Does the Minister for the Environment really think it is more important to tax plastic bags and ban straws than to fix mercury tunnels in the Baltic? The Minister for the Environment has spoken out on several occasions, i.e. taxes on plastic bags and banning straws. But I've never heard the Minister for the Environment talk about the poison tunnels, except now that Lars Beckman and I are raising the issue.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-155	Madam President, I would like Of course, I share all the concerns about the environmental toxins left by previous decision-makers and generations in Sweden's nature. As I said, there are more than 8,000 areas that are considered to be of risk classes 1 and 2 throughout Sweden. As far as what is in our seas is concerned, we do not yet have a proper survey of how many areas there are. Here the government gave an assignment this summer to our authorities to map so that we get a better idea of what is in our seas. I really agree that it feels terrible to know that there are thousands of barrels of old mercury. They were dumped with open eyes by decision-makers and the parties in power. On that occasion, these environmental toxins were dumped into the sea. At first they thought it was a good idea to have it in international waters. Then it turned out that it was too far to go, so they dumped it in Swedish water. It wasn't a mistake. It was done with open eyes. What's hidden in snow comes up in the moor. It's never gonna go away. Humanity must learn that. My party was formed precisely because we would never act in the way of those in power at that time. It is excellent that we ban the use of mercury. As far as the barrels are concerned, they contain an estimated 8.7 tonnes of mercury. At the same time, there are studies that estimate that other sources around the Gulf of Sundsvall have released 50 to 100 tons of mercury. It's old sediment. It's old industries that left things behind in the soil, sediments and the sea. It is certainly not the case that the government has sat still in this. What we have done is more than double the budget to clean up contaminated areas in Sweden. It was SEK 400 million in 2014 when we took over. Now it's 900 million. For the first time we have also earmarked money to look at the cleansing of the seas. We have an entire investment in clean seas where we also clean old wrecks and other things – the really ticking environmental bombs. Our responsible county boards that carry out this work will have to plan and use this money and identify which are the most risky sources of human health and the environment. That's exactly what they're doing, and they're ticking off. The Moderates and Christian Democrats laid down a budget last year that was voted through by the Riksdag, and in it you reduced that appropriation by SEK 100 million. That's hardly taking responsibility. It's hardly that you get more done with less money, so that equation doesn't add up. For the first time, then, we have earmarked money for the seas and more than doubled the funds. We have also given the task of mapping where the most dangerous places in our seas are so that we know how to proceed with this. I can only regret that we have places like Essvik, that is Nyhamn's old industrial area in Västernorrland, where we have PCBs, PAH, a number of heavy metals and carcinogens. Here is an area where you have blocked off and where you also need to clean up. If there was only one problem, no one would be happier than me, but we have thousands of problems to deal with.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-167	Madam President, I would like No one doubts the commitment of the Government or the Green Party to the environment. Rather, it is the ability and priorities that we criticise. The same minister who is talking about a lack of resources was thus prepared to subsidise electric bicycles with 5.7 billion while there are 23 000 poison barrels of mercury in the Baltic Sea. When you use the Riksdag's fantastic Berglund search service and search for Isabella Lövin I think she said something in the style of a welcome into the game. But it is in fact the Government and the Government that have the power. It is the Government that has been in power for five years. It is the Government that has the opportunity to write debate articles and opinion formation. I think there are many people who know about air cams, clothing combs, plastic bags, plastic straws and everything that the Green Party thinks is important. But where is the commitment to bringing up the 23,000 poison barrels? Where is the commitment to doing what is important? I am the first to agree that, in order to pick up the barrels, money is actually needed. Other times you engage in symbolic politics, and that is also why the Moderates in our shadow budget have set aside more money than the government to cleanse the sea. Of course, it is completely indecent that we do not even know where 20,000 poison barrels are dumped – completely legally, in the open eyes of the authorities, because it was the authorities who had given permission – between Sundsvall and Gotland. And of course, if you're an environmental party for real as the Moderates are, of course, priority is to address the biggest problems. I can readily admit, Madam President, that I am much more concerned about the 23 000 dumped poison barrels than I am concerned about the fact that those living in the big cities do not get subsidised electric bicycles. I am absolutely convinced that if we go out and ask 1 000 people in town what is most important, to take 23 000 poison barrels out of the Baltic Sea with 10 tons of mercury or other measures, I think very many would share my concerns. I also believe that if these poison barrels were in the Stockholm archipelago, the issue would be taken more seriously. In fact, I believe that the Minister had written a debate article or that in five years' time a representative of the Green Party had taken an initiative, because that is what is required. Government governance is required, government initiatives are required, and the government needs to give priority to what is important. I have noticed that there are countless debates on the problem of plastic bags, the majority of which end up in the sea coming from one of the rivers in Asia, but this is an issue that Sweden owns itself. This is an issue that the government can address, and I think, of course, that we should encourage Tove and others who are involved in this issue in Sundsvall, Gävleborg and Hudiksvall. There are many who are concerned about this tremendous poison that every day comes closer to becoming an environmental disaster. Every minute we stand here talking, the concrete tunnels crumble. It is not a question of when, but when, and I think we need to take them out of the water or cover them. Something has to be done.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-175	Madam President, I would like When I have read the answers from the Government to the questions I have asked and listened to the Council of State in this House, I easily get the impression that it is the issue of responsibility that is most important to investigate. I guess it's because it's the polluter who's gonna pay, because that's the law. And I agree. It's important and it's right. There is no disagreement that responsibilities should be demanded if possible. But what is most important and what are the facts about this? Who has actually paid for the clean-up that has been done so far? According to a report from the County Administrative Board in Västernorrland, my county of Västernorrland has cleaned up land and water for a total of SEK 682 million. Taxpayers have accounted for 90% of the cost. Less than 10% of the total 682 million that the restructuring has cost has thus been paid for by the responsible companies. You might find this both boring and wrong. But these are facts, and nothing indicates that this would change in the future. These are complicated investigations, and many times there are no responsible companies left. They may have been cut up, they may have merged, merged, sold on, and a lot of other things. Madam President, I would like The Minister for the Environment believes that the County Administrative Board of Västernorrland is investigating the liability issue. That's correct. The investigation has been going on for a very long time, but unfortunately there is no indication that it will soon be completed. And while the government is waiting for the investigation into who's in charge, the barrels are crumbling. To use a fitting illustration, it seems that the Minister for the Environment is hoping for money – that the investigation will result in someone else paying. I think that the Minister for the Environment should act instead of waiting for investigations, especially when we know how difficult it is to investigate the responsibility. Madam President, I would like My questions to the Government in this round are: Why can't the mapping and inclusion of mercury tunnels begin before the responsibility issue is investigated? Why wait when the poison barrels are going up anyway, because we still agree on that, I hope? Doesn't the government think it would even be easier to pick up the barrels first? Then we will find out about the cost, a cost that can then be reported and presented to the responsible company – if we manage to establish responsibility. It would, in my view, increase the chance to raise as much money as possible and spare taxpayers as much as possible. Does the Minister of the Environment not see the risk of waiting any longer? As we have said several times: Every second and minute we stand here the barrels crumble. I would like an answer as to why we cannot begin the process until the investigation is complete.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-182	Madam President, I would like If I may begin with the important issue of the polluter paying, which Jörgen Berglund also raised, then there is an investigation into the liability for dumping these toxic tunnels. It is an important principle for the government and, I think, for Sweden that we stick to the fact that it is the polluter who should pay. If we depart from that principle and say that it will be so difficult to determine who was responsible for what happened 50, 60 or 70 years ago, well, then those who act today know that they will be able to go free in a future and do not even have to think twice before doing something that is dangerous to the environment. The principle is therefore important to investigate. That's the first thing. The second is that we have a situation with responsible county boards that have to prioritise between Sweden's at least 8 000 heavily polluted areas. Lars Beckman seems to think that as Minister for the Environment, I should sit here in Stockholm and point out – especially with regard to the Stockholm archipelago – the barrels to be taken up. No, I don't think it's a good order. A good order is that we in the government make sure that there is money – funds – for the county boards to prioritise the most important and dangerous risk areas and start working there. Members are particularly involved in certain areas. There are of course other members from Skåne, Dalarna, Värmland or from all sides and edges throughout Sweden who think that their highly polluted areas are prioritised. But let's look at which areas the County Administrative Board of Gävleborg has prioritised. For example, it is a former sawmill in Ovanåker where there are enormous levels of dioxin in the sediments adjacent to the sawmill building. It is a top priority on a list of the ten most polluted areas. In Västernorrland is one of the areas Essvik-Nyhamn's old industrial area. It is a former pulp factory and later chemical-technical industry that is really directly dangerous to people living in the area. This is where the priority has been set. You can talk all you want, Lars Beckman, about straws and environmental policy of the Green Party, which is about reducing litter in the seas and greenhouse gas emissions, but in the end you are the one who cuts the environmental budget. You have cut more than 2 billion, and you are trying to bluff accounting by taking 2 billion from aid and moving to the Ministry of the Environment's budget responsibility. It has nothing to do with you being able to do better politics by picking up poison barrels in Swedish waters. You are constantly dribbled with environmental policy and with the budget. You took 100 million from the environmental budget when you got the chance with the help of the M-KD budget. You are lowering the tax on petrol by 7 billion in your shadow budget. It's a truly extraordinary decision. If we want to try to be effective with environmental policy, it is the least effective measure that can be taken. It also affects our seas enormously negatively with acidification due to carbon dioxide emissions. It is something that affects not only individual and regional, but the whole world and the whole of Sweden. This is simply a sad situation in which we need to take responsibility for the future. It concerns the emissions we are causing today, not just the historical debts we have from the 1950s.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-191	I would like to remind you that we are speaking through the President and not duaring anyone else. We speak through the President.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-192	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely convinced that the removal of subsidies on electric bicycles will not harm the issue of combating environmental toxins in the Baltic Sea. The truth is, Madam President, that the government has taken no initiative whatsoever in this area, although even the Minister for the Environment pointed out that the party was formed because it was dissatisfied with the policies of the then Social Democratic Government. Despite the fact that the party was formed for this reason, no initiative whatsoever has been taken with regard to the 23 000 toxic tunnels in the Baltic Sea. I can understand Tove in Sundsvall's frustration when she is interviewed in Fiskejournalen. She says she's trying to get the politicians to act, but nothing's happening. The responsibility investigation that has been going on at Västernorrland County Administrative Board for 14 years can last 14 more years. But every second that we stand here talking, we are closer, closer and closer to the concrete tunnels crumbling. It will be a bit difficult when, on the one hand, the Minister for the Environment rages over our concern that ten tonnes of mercury are going into the Baltic Sea, while the County Administrative Board on the other has obviously made other priorities. I have the report, and I know my county and the exact priorities very well. But this does not mean that there are 20,000 poison barrels in the Baltic Sea dumped between Sundsvall and Gotland that nobody knows where they are. The first step to remedy them is to take stock of where they are. The Government said in its reply that it is about 10 – 50 million to identify them. Then give a mission to the authorities to identify where the poison barrels are. Then answer the question of when they come out of the water.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-198	Madam President, I would like I think that the discussion and the debate began on a fact-based basis. Then the Minister for the Environment derailed a little bit. It shows the worst aspects of politics when one deliberately misunderstands what the other says. I said that the polluter-pays principle, we are in complete agreement. I asked the government why we can't locate and pick up the barrels when the investigation is in progress. The liability investigation can continue, but it doesn't matter because the barrels are going up. Then we know the cost, too. Now they're waiting. The investigation has been going on for many years and can continue for many more years. I really don't understand why. The second regrettable thing is that the Minister for the Environment has doubts about my commitment to the environment, Lars Beckman and the Moderates. It does not benefit either the climate of debate or the environment that we misunderstand each other. I would like to talk more about these issues with the Minister for the Environment. As we pointed out earlier, it is possible to dribble with the figures for the costs back and forth. If I have read correctly on the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's website, 370 million were paid out last year for electric bicycles. That sum would well cover the cost of investigating and taking up the barrels. I mean, and Lars Beckman means that it is to prioritise real environmental problems. The Swedish National Audit Office's report was clear, namely that the e-bike premium had no or little effect on the environment. That's the difference. I would like the Minister for the Environment to tackle an environmental problem that is real not only for those of us who live in Norrland but for everyone who lives around the Baltic Sea.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-203	Madam President, I would like If we are to talk about electric bicycles in this important debate on poison barrels and old environmental debts, I would like to correct the two Members. We're talking about an appropriation of SEK 300 million a year, not a few billion, as Lars Beckman said. The grant has been evaluated and has shown that it provides good environmental and health benefits. Now there's no more funding. However, there is a proposal from the Moderates to reduce the tax on petrol by 7 billion a year, I would also like to point out – not a total lump sum. Why don't we pick up the barrels now? I have tried to explain that there is a system in which county boards carry out a risk assessment and prioritise, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency develops a national plan for post-treatment. That is where priority is given to the most polluted and dangerous areas, and that is the order that exists. Member Lars Beckman, Madam President, has shown that he has the list of contaminated areas in Gävleborg and Västernorrland. For one of the areas in Gävleborg are the barrels on the lists, but they are not at the top. This is so pending the investigation into responsibility. We have to save the money. The Green Party and the government have certainly given priority. We have added extra money to our amending budget after the M-KD budget that cut back on money. We also have for the first time an effort to clean up contaminated areas in the sea and for the first time also a mission to identify the contaminated areas that exist. We know that there are 8 000 such areas on land, but we do not know how much is at sea. But we must also stop thinking that we can dump in the atmosphere or in the sea.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-207	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to ensure the general and parliamentary transparency of privacy and cost-effectiveness in the development of Swedish cyber defence. The Swedish Armed Forces have been commissioned by the Government to develop and strengthen Swedish cyber defence, including the ability to act actively in the cyber environment, with the support of the Swedish Defence Radio Agency. This is a work going on within the relevant authorities. It is the responsibility of the authorities to apply the applicable law to the performance of all missions, including in the cyber area. The Government is closely following efforts to develop a Swedish cyber defence, both from an operational perspective and for cost-effectiveness. In the budget proposal for 2020, the government provides information about the Swedish Armed Forces' work with a developed cyber defence. The report shows that the Swedish Armed Forces have initiated the establishment of a military virtual training facility, a so-called cyber range, to enhance the opportunities to conduct training, training and exercises with bearings on Sweden's cyber defence. The Swedish Armed Forces have continuously monitored the Authority's management support system and rejected attempts at intrusion a number of times. The Swedish Armed Forces have begun planning for the recruitment of cyber soldiers. The Swedish Armed Forces have also participated in Locked Shield, the world's largest cyber defence exercise. The budget proposal is, of course, also available to the public. In addition to the budget bill, more information can be found in the Swedish Armed Forces' annual report and budget documentation.
i-QF3ja8LCbYxvPVwDUmZK96	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer to the interpellation! One can simply say that we have two different authorities when it comes to developing military capabilities. We have the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration, which is able to develop and expert in this area, and we have the Swedish Armed Forces, as they say, is an expert in the use of human resources. But, Madam President, there is no rule without exception. On some occasions, the Swedish Armed Forces themselves have been responsible for the development work that has taken place. When Mrs President and I took up the position in the Committee on Defence in 2002, it was an acronym that was repeated more than anyone else, and it was the NBF. The then very wise Social Democratic government realized that it should have a follow-up of the NBF work and put Statskontoret to keep a watchful eye on this. Every six months, reports were published on the progress of development work, the costs that were worked up and more. It was not long before all the warning bells rang. Eventually, the Riksdag also closed down development work with NBF. Another of the Swedish Armed Forces' internal development projects has been Prio. It is an administrative system that will help the staff of the Authority in various ways. According to Computer Sweden, the bill for Prio remained in the Swedish Armed Forces for 3.3 billion. That, Madam President, represents just over 11⁄2 million per employee. Now it's time again. Now the Swedish Armed Forces will develop cyber defence with both passive and active capabilities. I know that there is very strict secrecy about the whole of this activity. Basically the only tasks that are public are those that the Minister of Defence mentioned in his response to me, namely planning and working on building a cyber range – a direct translation is well cyber shooting course – and has participated in the Locked Shields exercise and started recruiting cyber soldiers. It makes me very worried, Madam President, that these are the tasks – the only ones found in the Swedish Armed Forces' annual report – to which the Minister for Defence refers. The fact that the eight meetings that are given the floor are the ones that the government addresses in its response does not reinforce the impression that the government, as the Minister for Defence mentioned, is closely following developments. Madam President, I would like I am genuinely concerned that money that is now being added to area 6 to a large extent is not being managed in a cost-effective way. I note that it is almost two years since the Defence Committee proposed an inspection for the total defence that would monitor cost-effectively. There has not yet been any government decision on this. I note that other sensitive areas of the Armed Forces' activities, such as the Defence Intelligence Service, are followed by a special inspection. But for this work, there is currently no follow-up whatsoever that I can observe, nor any control over the costs.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-219	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the Swedish Armed Forces in general, we have taken the measure that both Statskontoret and the Swedish National Audit Office have reviewed financial control and how this should be developed. The entire Swedish Armed Forces are now continuously implementing enhanced financial control, where they are fully aware of the problems that have existed and are gradually trying to address them. I believe that we have taken a wide range of measures to achieve increased cost-effectiveness within the Swedish Armed Forces. As far as this activity is concerned, I do not know what Mr Widman's tasks are. He expresses serious concern, but I cannot see that there is any specific information on the lack of cost-effectiveness here that would raise concerns. I also consider that a Swedish cyber defence is a cost-effective way to further raise the threshold in relation to any antagonistic actor or opponent who is considering attacking Sweden and Swedish interests or exerting pressure with military or other means of power. This is something that we have expressed both in the 2015 orientation proposal and in the national security strategy. Then there is the problem that Widman himself touches on parts of: there is a high level of confidentiality when it comes to cyber. There is also a great interest in cyber intelligence. Like others who work with Swedish cyber, I have as the responsible minister to deal with this. There are simply limits to how much you can say and share publicly about our cyber defence. There is that limitation, and it will be borne in mind also when we are having this discussion in this House. This is not a situation that only applies to Sweden, but generally also to other similar countries. There is a high level of confidentiality about this. It has been reported in public documents from government and government agencies and in the annual budget bill things that can be disclosed publicly. If there are to be other types of accounting, they must be done in a different context, in other forms and in other ways. In this forum, the limitation is that the discussion can only be conducted in, so to speak, this tempered and at this level.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-224	Madam President, I would like I have full respect for the fact that confidentiality must be strict about this development. But I believe that the confidentiality was equally strict when it came to the development of network-based defences some 15 years ago. This did not prevent the then present government from appointing a state authority as controller and follow-up to development. Of course, this can also be done completely confidentially. The Secretary of Defense is wondering why I'm worried. I tried to put it clearly in my first speech. I am concerned because I have seen the development of the NBF and Prio within the Swedish Armed Forces, and it has not been successful; I do not even believe that the authority itself is assessing this. Possibly the work with Prio has been successful, but it has also been associated with very high costs. Let me give an example of this with cost-effectiveness. We have now established that the Swedish Armed Forces are building their own cyber range. If you google, you can quickly see that the Swedish Armed Forces are not the only authority in Sweden that does this, but also the Swedish Civil Protection Agency. This is a very concrete example. Why has the government not ensured cooperation around a national cyber range but allowed authorities to build these resources separately? I also believe, Madam President, that in the case of this type of development, which may be described as digital, it is very difficult for the members of the Committee on Defence to see whether or not we get the bang for the money. I can hear a field haubits shooting, but my ability to evaluate this business is almost nonexistent. I do not want the Minister of Defence to give information to the public that it should not have, nor to us parliamentarians. But I am of the opinion that it is very important that we follow this development carefully, preferably through an authority being commissioned by the government. Then perhaps we can avoid five years from now having to say that this was not rational and that it cost too much and gave too little.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-229	Madam President, I would like I have visited this activity on several occasions and met the staff working on it. I have also taken note of methods and technical structure. It is clear that I cannot assess every detail in these contexts, but I must nevertheless say that this is a work carried out with a high level of ambition and commitment. As far as cost-effectiveness is concerned, I would be a little careful, as Mr Widman does, to assess and draw conclusions from other examples that are not really related to this area. I believe that in practice there are speculations that may even prove to be unsubstantiated. I am not going to venture in and speculate on one or the other in this context. I have confidence in the management that runs this business. You try to use the money you have effectively. It is my firm belief that this activity, since we started building it, is a way of raising the threshold against an antagonistic actor. I think this is useful for Sweden. The knowledge we have is also interesting to others. This is not an activity that develops in a way that is in a state of crisis, but, on the contrary, I see it as an asset. In the long term, it can also prove to be not what Widman says but one of the real plus effects we have in the Swedish Armed Forces. It is clear that one may be concerned, speculate and so on, but my assessment is that this is so far about speculation and public concern. I see that people are trying to work on this in a serious way within the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-234	Madam President, I would like It is very gratifying to hear that the Minister of Defence has made study visits where this activity is carried out. However, this is not really what I had seen in front of me. I would have liked some form of independent body to have looked at cost-effectiveness in the first place. I have not said, Madam President, that it will be too expensive or will not be conducted rationally. But I see risks. Defence power is a monopoly business. We have not fully tested this authority in the context of the last 200 years. It is also an authority surrounded by very high secrecy in many areas. It is these three qualities together that make me feel a genuine worry. But like the Secretary of Defense, I don't know what's gonna happen. My final question to the Minister is therefore: does the Minister of Defence feel completely confident about the cost-effectiveness of the activities being carried out today?
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-237	Madam President, I would like For me, the Armed Forces have never been any kind of market. It has also been shown that the market elements that have existed in some parts have been a particularly unsuccessful story. There must always be stability, consistency and planning weight in this important activity. When it comes to cost-effectiveness, it is something you have to work with all the time in all organisations, including the Swedish Armed Forces. It is not certain that the ultimate solution to cost-effectiveness problems is to set up new inspections. There may be other methods as well. I have mentioned that we have included Statskontoret and the Swedish National Audit Office in this context. This has helped the Swedish Armed Forces to work with cost-effectiveness. According to the information and perception I have, they work in a cost-effective way– I have no other indications. Then you cannot be 100% sure of anything or in any activity at all. I'm not going into that kind of warranty reasoning. But I also have no reason to say that there is a worrying situation or speculate that this is getting out of hand or that within five years we will face very difficult situations. I can, however, see and think I know that one gradually builds up a competence that is very useful for Sweden and is also attractive in international contexts. Unfortunately, however, this has great intelligence value, which is why we have extensive confidentiality. If it is to be informed of this in a deeper sense, it should be done in contexts other than this, under confidentiality and professional secrecy.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-242	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what I intend to do to improve the ongoing monitoring of processing times and to create shorter and more equivalent processing times throughout the country. Property formation is a vital part of the community building process, and a well-functioning process is a prerequisite for efficient housing construction. I therefore take it very seriously that the processing times vary widely between different parts of the country and that the processing times in several places are too long. In order to reduce, measure and follow up the processing times in property formation, Lantmäteriet was commissioned in September 2018 to introduce a new monitoring model. The Authority shall annually report, analyse and evaluate key indicators and, if necessary, propose changes to the follow-up model. The first full report under the new model will be presented in the next annual report. Current key figures show, however, that Lantmäteriet has closed more cases than has been received in relation to all customer needs. Seventy-seven per cent more cases have been closed in 2018 compared to 2017. The fact that more cases are closed means that the balance of cases is falling, and it also provides an improved opportunity to start new cases more quickly. Lantmäteriet has also introduced new ways of working to deal with the lack of surveyors. In mid 2018, the State Land Survey had 56 per cent of the country's handling surveyors, but 76 per cent of all cases, while the Authority's average processing time was only slightly higher than the total average. Several surveying authorities, including the State, still have too long processing times. However, the systematic follow-up of the activities now under way shows that previous actions have produced results. Further follow-up will make it possible to take further steps to develop work on shortening processing times for building formation. In order to achieve the objective of reasonable processing times, better use of the possibilities of digitalisation is a necessity. Digitalisation has the potential to make both the building and the entire building process faster and more efficient. Within the framework of the Government's Digital Initiative, Lantmäteriet has first made several suggestions on how the possibilities of digitalisation can be better used. According to an estimate by Lantmäteriet, time savings equivalent to SEK 29 – 59 million per year would be possible within the building building if basic information was readily available. The Agency's proposal is now being prepared within the Government Office. My intention is to continue to develop both the building construction process and the civil engineering process during this term of office.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-249	Madam President, I would like I produced a report from the Swedish Parliament's investigation service that compared the situation with this important area in our Nordic neighbours. In Finland, building is faster and cheaper. In Norway it is faster and cheaper. Denmark is faster and more cost-effective. Obviously, there is something to improve in this area. I do not believe that neither I nor the Government believe that building would be worse in our neighbouring countries, even though it is much faster and more cost-effective. I pulled up a new RUT report, and that's why I wrote this interpellation. They looked at different counties and municipalities and how they differ in terms of processing times. It is no secret that Ö-vik, for example, is close to the government. There, real estate formation takes an average of 81 weeks from arrival date to closing date. In Sandviken, in my home country, it takes 73 weeks. In Täby, it takes 33 weeks. In response to the Government, it seems that we fully agree that there are unacceptable differences between the municipalities of Sweden. It is a good thing that the government then takes the situation seriously. But that does not help, Madam President. It does not help that the Government is concerned. It does not help that the Government thinks it should get better. Of course, what will make a difference is doing things. It is clear that money is not entirely undisputed in this context. I would like to remind you that we moderates in our autumn budget have invested 20 million more than the government in Lantmäteriet to shorten the processing times. Madam President, I would like It is clear that it is harmful for the whole of Sweden when companies are hindered in their expansion or when people want to sell a plot to a young couple who need a home and it may take years to do such a simple thing– I know the Government does not like that I say it, but I say it anyway – as a building. It's a direct betrayal of the countryside. It's a betrayal of the big cities, where you need lots of land. And it is a serious failure and a breach of the social contract that the state cannot deliver its core business on time. This is a state core business and a state monopoly that requires the State to deliver. I have met municipal councillors, mainly in Gävleborg County, who were if not desperate so at least upset. They say that the development of society in their municipality is hindered by the state's failure to deliver. They have companies that want to expand, people who want to build and even private real estate companies that want to invest in the municipality but are hindered in social development because the state does not deliver real estate formation on time. I can understand anyone who sees this debate and thinks that this with property formation does not seem to be the most interesting thing in the world. We've taken it for granted that it works. It's a government core business that should work better. I think it is important to deliver a different response than that the annual report for 2020 should be able to measure differences in how Lantmäteriet acts. I believe that more action is needed to resolve the issue. I can assure the Government that we will have many opportunities in this House to follow up on this issue and that it will work better.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-258	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by suggesting to Lars Beckman that if he does not want an answer to the follow-up, he should not ask the question of how the follow-up is done in the interpellation. That's the question Lars Beckman asked. Then he should be happy that he's getting an answer to it, too, shouldn't he? It is a little strange to be upset to find the answer to the question that has been asked in the interpellation. We show that we have a more systematic follow-up of this area. The reason why we want a more systematic follow-up of how the work goes at the surveying authorities and what it looks like about the processing times is precisely because we are anxious to do something about the problem that we seem to agree on. We think that there is too much variation between different surveying authorities – in addition to the state, there are also 39 municipal surveying authorities – and in general the processing times are too long. There's a deal. The government has been keen to take steps to bring about a change in governance, for example through a new management for the National Board of Analysts, and also to start working on the basic problems that lie at the root of much of the challenges. A basic problem is that it has been difficult to recruit surveyers and surveyers. There I am pleased that we now have a new surveying programme at Uppsala University, where there was a very large search print, which is gratifying. There were 302 applicants for the 26 study places available. This will enable us to look forward to more people coming out and doing these important tasks in the future. But there is also a question of vulnerability. It is an assignment spread over 39 different municipal surveying authorities. I note that 27 of the surveying authorities have fewer than 10 employees. Then it is clear that such things as single cases of illness or being away from work can affect, for example, the processing times. There is a concern that we need to reflect on. It is about how we can create stability and better coordination, so that we do not get the great variations between the municipal surveying authorities. What is pleasing, though we agree that the processing times are too long, is that the balance of cases is now decreasing. You do a lot more errands than you get in. This means that we will reduce the length of proceedings over time. However, it is important to know what you measure there too. Paradoxically, when we look at processing times, when old cases are being dealt with at a faster pace, the old cases have long processing times because they have had to wait far too long. In the short term, therefore, it may actually increase the processing times in the completed cases, even though this is the way to solve the challenge in the long term. There, I hope, we have a focus on what really matters, that is, how quickly matters that come in will be dealt with by the surveying authorities. It is also important to have effective follow-up and to look for the reasons why there are large variations between municipal surveying authorities and also to try to graze the long queue of cases that have unfortunately been worked up for a long time. This means that we will gradually have better and better results in terms of having shorter processing times for the new cases that are now coming into the surveying authorities.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-264	Madam President, I would like Then I understand the answer to the interpellation. The government has obviously only read half my question. But I would like to read it out: what does the Government intend to do to improve the ongoing follow-up of processing times and to create shorter and more equivalent processing times throughout the country? The last question is, of course, the relevant one. Madam President, I would like What will the Government and the Government do to create shorter and more equal processing times throughout the country? As I said in my previous speech, it is a concern that you have to wait 81 weeks in Ö-vik and 73 weeks in Sandviken while in Täby you have to wait a little more than six months, 33 weeks. I may find 33 weeks unacceptable. I wish many could go to Karlskoga, for example, where it takes 13 weeks. This is a huge worry. It is a threat to rural development and to the growth of big cities that the state cannot deliver a core business. Of course, one can say that the development is moving in the right direction and be satisfied with 80 weeks of processing time. However, I would like to see those neighbouring countries that are obviously solving their property formation considerably better. In Finland, it is much faster at a lower cost. In Norway, it is much faster at a lower cost for the builder of real estate. Denmark is going much faster at a lower cost. This is an important part of the core mission of the Minister for Housing and the Government. The core task is for the state to deliver a core function. There may also be proposals from Lantmäteriet. For example, it may be such a thing as that an individual surveyor should not have to go back to the first building formation that took place on the site. It could theoretically be 1312 or 1578. There are certainly a number of concrete things you can do. There is something I am concerned about, Madam President. I do not believe, for example, that there is anything in the 73 points of the January agreement on the Land Survey and the formation of real estate. It may be that they take so much resources from the government and so much of the housing minister's commitment that one may not give priority to the issue of building. I hope that this is not the case, because a housing minister who wants it to be built throughout Sweden and who wants to contribute to rural development and development in the big cities should of course give priority to the functioning of the core business of the state. We can't influence prosperity. We can't influence recession. You were able to introduce the amortisation requirement, so of course you have had an impact on that. I read a report yesterday about that. But you can actually make sure that the core business of the state works. Gävle is a very nice town. You can travel by train to Gävle even if it was difficult today. The Minister of Housing may well go to Lantmäteriet once a month and really put pressure on Lantmäteriet to produce concrete proposals, just as I wrote in my question, which make it concrete results and make it really different in the state's core business. In addition, we must of course ensure that our municipalities around Sweden have more similar processing times. What makes Karlskoga able to have a time of 13 weeks? What makes Ö-vik have 81 weeks. 81 weeks for a property formation is too long. There are unacceptable differences in Sweden as regards what citizens and companies consider to be a state or, for that matter, municipal core business.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-273	Madam President, I would like Let's start by not putting words in each other's mouths. I've never said I'm happy with the processing times. I was quite clear about that in my speech. I think that the processing times are generally too long. That is why we have implemented a series of measures to overcome that basic problem. I am pleased with Lars Beckman's commitment to this issue. I can well wish that the former moderate-led government had done a little more, because it was during that period that the processing times began to run. Once a debt has been incurred, as it were, in the form of many long - standing cases, it takes time to catch up with the queue that has arisen. But, as I said, we have worked intensively to ensure that the surveying authority prioritises these issues. We are now also seeing how things are finally starting to move in the right direction in the sense that the balance of matters is starting to point in the right direction, that is to say that the National Survey Office is now finishing more cases than those that come in. I do not think, however, that there is any reason to settle down, but we must continue to work. We must ensure that management continues to give priority to these issues and that every effort is made to recruit. One bottleneck is that it is difficult to find staff who can do this important work. But I also think that we need to look for new ways to work. I believe that digitalisation can be an important tool for making the process more efficient and faster. Digitalisation, gathering data in digital systems, is a way to get a quick overview of all issues related to a particular land area or plot. Then you can go back to the 1300s. You can have the information in one place, so you can have a more efficient process and more efficient management. There's work going on. We are now giving assignments to our authorities, not least Lantmäteriet, to work within the digital initiative first with developing suggestions on how to use digitalization opportunities better. There are, as I said, time savings to be made in the activities of the authorities as well. There are also opportunities to speed up the processes so that there are shorter processing times. But even with a digitalised process, we need well-trained surveyors who can do this work. I wish there had been an earlier investment in education. We need to ensure that there are more people out there who can do these important tasks. Unfortunately, I did not see this as a priority in the budget presented by the Moderates together with the Christian Democrats on the table and then adopted by the Riksdag, which I regret. But at least now we've got new surveying programs going on. More educated people can come out and do these tasks. I believe that this is a very important condition for us to achieve in goals and to arrive at a situation where we have significantly shorter processing times when it comes to these important societal issues. I agree with Lars Beckman that this is an incredibly important issue for the public.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-281	Madam President, I would like You've been in government for five years. For the first few months or the first year, you might have blamed the alliance government. But when you have been in charge for five years, you also have to take responsibility. There's one simple thing to do for the housing minister. It is to call on the environmental partisan MPs to vote for the Conservative shadow budget, for there we add 20 million to Lantmäteriet in addition to the government's budget. If this is the most important issue for the Minister for Housing, he will of course have to call on his Members of Parliament to vote on the Moderate Budget. But what can the Minister do? Yes, there is, for example, an announcement from the Riksdag to simplify participation rates in road associations. Parliament has given an announcement about it to the government. It's just to deliver. Then we'll relieve the Lantmäteriet. How far has that work gone? Is there a sharp suggestion and something that really makes a difference? I think it's very important. I can assure the Minister of Housing that he will often be allowed to come to the Chamber. We will follow the matter on a monthly basis to ensure that the government actually does something so that we reduce the length of proceedings. I would like the Minister to go to Finland. What has been done in Finland that has been so successful? There it is much shorter processing times at a lower cost. What has been done in Norway means that it is lower cost and shorter processing times? What do you do in Denmark? Obviously, there are things our Nordic neighbours do better than Sweden. Then, of course, it is a question of finding a system for eliminating the unacceptable differences between, for example, Ö-vik and Sandviken. It is a question of all municipalities shortening their processing times. Here, the simplification of the rules, which the government owns, is an extremely important issue.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-287	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Lars Beckman for raising the issue, and I look forward to further discussions on the subject. This is a commitment that we obviously share. I think it is important for us to have a continuous discussion on how we can ensure that surveying works better and better in the future. It is important in such a debate not only to be black-sighted but also to see that there is a movement in the right direction. Then you can do everything you can to speed up that movement so that it goes even faster in the future. That is what we are dealing with on the part of the government. However, I would warn that there is a danger in comparing apples and pears and to say that different surveying authorities have exactly the same data. There is a big difference between the way the surveying authorities work and the types of cases they handle. I think it is impressive that our national surveying authority has managed to streamline its work. In fact, there is a very large part of the case, despite the fact that there is a significantly smaller proportion of surveying staff. Only 56% of the handling surveyors are located in the State Land Survey, but they handle 76% of all cases. This shows that there is an efficiency potential that can be achieved even within the municipal surveying authorities. It's important work. We are now putting a great deal of effort into ensuring that we get better coordination and that we can deal with these matters considerably more quickly. We get a better and better balance, where we now close more cases than those that come in. This means that we can gradually come down to shorter processing times. It is not by chance, but because the government has given priority to these issues. We have also taken steps that are now starting to have a positive effect.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-291	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson has asked me what I intend to do to make it easier for young adults with a fixed income to buy their own home. Initially, I would like to say that I share David Josefsson's concern about the situation of young people in the housing market. Questions about young people's entry into the housing market are central. At the same time, the picture needs to be nuanced. Household indebtedness has given rise to concerns, and to strengthen household resilience several macroprudential measures have been implemented. It is important, both for financial stability and for the functioning of the housing market, to reduce the risks associated with household indebtedness. In a scenario of a sharp economic downturn and a fall in prices on the housing market, household resilience is an important part of both the economy as a whole and the housing market's capacity for recovery. In accordance with the January Agreement, which is a substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, a comprehensive tax reform is to be implemented, aimed, among other things, at improving the functioning of the housing market. Such a review may provide an opportunity to create long-term sustainability and stability in the housing market. In this context, it is natural to take into account the functioning of the credit market and its impact on entry for specific groups. For those who are new to the housing market, it is often appropriate to rent their dwelling. In accordance with the January agreement, the government is currently working to streamline and concentrate investment support for rental apartments. The investment aid has been granted for about 2 6 000 apartments and is an important tool for creating the conditions for building apartments with reasonable requirements for tenants' ability to pay.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-295	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer, although the only concrete part of this response is actually about subsidies for rental apartments. However, the question concerned the possibility for young people to buy a dwelling. I come from Gothenburg, one of the cities where it is most difficult for young people to find a place to live. At home I have met young adults looking for housing, construction companies that want to build housing for young people and employers who are looking for staff – often just young graduates from universities and colleges. They all bear witness to the same problem, namely the difficulty of finding housing even for those who have a fixed income. Just as the Government is concerned with, among other things, a lack of rental rights. The waiting period for an apartment in Gothenburg's commons is at least five years and in the central city up to nine years. Kötiderna is similar here in Stockholm. However, it is at least as often a barrier to buying a right-of-occupancy apartment. Madam President, I would like Let me illustrate this with an example. SBAB has mapped how much is required in salary to buy a 30 square meter apartment for average price and average fee of 15 per cent in cash in 20 Swedish municipalities and at the same time clear requirements for amortisation, interest and fee and have money left for living expenses. In Gothenburg, a salary of 33 000 SEK is required and in Stockholm a salary of 36 500 SEK. At the same time, the average salary aged 25 to 29 is barely 20 000 SEK for men and more than 16 500 SEK for women in Gothenburg. So the average income is half of what it takes to get a loan for a one of 30 square meters — a one. Madam President, I would like This creates problems not only for the individual who wants to enter the housing market but also for companies that find it difficult to recruit and for society at large, because growth and development are hampered when we do not let young adults into our cities. Gothenburg has a labour market that is extremely knowledge-intensive and innovative with employers looking for staff with lights and lamps. So this is about young ambitious adults, often academics, who cannot buy a home. For these people, the alternative is perhaps not to move to a smaller city and then commute to the big city with several hours of travel time each week, but rather to move out into Europe or the world to a city with a functioning housing market. You can also look the other way. Many of the companies I have met tell me that it is often the lack of housing that makes the decision when young talents from other countries feel obliged to turn down a job in Gothenburg and Sweden. Madam President, I would like In his reply, the Government states that he shares my concern for young people in the housing market. He then refers to the 73-point programme and to a comprehensive tax reform and that it is natural in this context to take into account the functioning of the credit market and its impact on the entry into the housing market of specific groups. I have to ask the Government: when does he estimate that such a tax reform could be in place? And will the government take any other concrete measures to make it easier for young people with a fixed income to buy a home before then?
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-305	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely worrying for a young person to enter the housing market today. It's a concern that we need to work with and deal with. However, that is hardly a new concern. It is not that it has been super easy for young people to enter the housing market at all times up to now, but this is something that I recognize from when I would enter the housing market and that I recognize from everyone who has entered the housing market between then and now. This, then, is a concern that we have lived with for a long time and which, of course, we should try to ensure is as short-lived as possible. We will ensure that we really provide the opportunity for as many young people as possible to enter the housing market, whether it is through the rental market or through the purchase market. I think it is important to note that we are all different as individuals and have different preferences. It is therefore also a good thing that there are different markets and that not everyone is forced into the buying market if it is not one's own preference. Maybe you don't want to go into the biggest business of your life and have more flexibility. Then it is good if there is also a functioning rental market. A well-functioning rental market can also relieve the market for purchased dwellings. These two are also very much connected. It is not that we do not think that this is a problem, but that we really do need to make efforts to make it easier for young people to enter the housing market. I am slightly opposed to the examples that David Josefsson makes in his speech. When he talks about average wages and that it would make it impossible for young people to buy their own homes, one must also be aware that the calculation of average wages includes many of this age group of students and part-time workers. As a result, it may not be a reasonable comparison. If you focus on those who have a solid and stable income, the result would be quite different from what David Josefsson says. It is probably quite obvious to many that it is not easy for a student with this income to buy a dwelling in today's housing market. It may then be more important to ensure that there is access to student housing. There we now have an ambitious mandate to build 11 000 new student housing up to 2026 through Akademiska Hus, for example. It is thus a significantly higher rate in the construction of student housing than it has been in the past. In accordance with the January agreement, we are making sure that we really work intensively with the housing market. Among other things, we have a point about reforming the rental model both for new properties and for existing rentals. The abolition of interest on the amount of the deferral is included in the January Agreement in order to increase mobility on the housing market. There is also a point about implementing comprehensive regulatory simplifications. It is a work that is going on in a major government investigation that will deliver its proposals in the coming months. We have also made concrete efforts, for example in relation to complementary residential buildings – to be able to build with a better residential area and thus become more accessible as homes, not least for young people. Investment aid for rental housing is also an important point which means that there are now rental apartments for a reasonable rent that suits young people's income levels. In this way, there is also the way to get a dwelling. This is therefore a high priority area within the January agreement for parties that have agreed on the January agreement. It is also very clear in this agreement. I think this is important, because the housing market is an important part of having a functioning society and not least a functioning economy, so that you can get a home where the jobs are located or apply for an education that you want. Then it should also be possible to get a dwelling.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-312	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer and I very much appreciate that the Government shares my concern. I think many young people who can't buy a home also appreciate it. But, as the Government was concerned about, the problems are extensive. I think that many people might have appreciated political action more than the fact that the Government is only concerned. In terms of average income, Skandiabanken came with a similar calculation, which looked only at academics with permanent employment. The result was that a 28-year-old with an academic degree and fixed income receives loans in only half of Sweden's 25 largest cities to buy an average one-bedroom apartment. So it is also a problem for those who have a fixed income and who have an education. They were refused not only in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, but also when they found their way out into the regions of Storstockholm and Storgöteborg. This is therefore a major problem, not only for students but also for people with wages. We are talking about the fact that the problem has existed for a long time, and it certainly has. But it's got worse – that's my point – of the amortisation requirements and the demands for increased self-interest. The demands may have a good purpose, but they do make it difficult for young people to enter the housing market. The Minister speaks of different preferences, Madam President. This is also what I tried to raise in this interpellation: Many young people want to buy a home, but the government really only talks about how to change the rental model. That is a good thing, but, as I said, there are many different preferences in the housing market. Another problem in this is that there will be an insider – outsider problems where we risk shutting out really a whole generation of people from the housing market if we make it difficult for them to enter the market even though they have their own fixed income. For example, if we look at the second amortisation requirement, which concerns borrowers with debt exceeding 4.5 times their income, it hits women harder than men precisely because women earn less. So there is also a gender equality aspect here that I think should be addressed. As I said, it is good to be concerned, but what do we really want to do in concrete terms to tackle the problems? We are talking about rental models and taxes, but what comes in the near future? And how does the Minister view the insider – the outsider problem and the gender equality problem? As I said, I think it is important that we look with concern at the problems, but here we are actually creating a barrier so that, unfortunately, young people who have a fixed income cannot enter the housing market.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-320	Madam President, I would like I have also taken note of Skandia's report, and it is important to point out that it has not analysed the actual mortgage customers – for example in the Skandia bank's own operations – but a more theoretical calculation and a theoretical model. There are some concerns with method: You have looked at what you call an average one in the resort. It is a bit dangerous to look at the housing market as if there was only one type of apartment to choose from as a residential customer. As we know, the housing range is very wide, from relatively cheap apartments to very expensive apartments, even in the one-bedroom apartments segment. I think most people understand that the young person has usually entered the labour market quite recently– if you have even done so; you may still be studying or working part-time. In this situation, wage increases have not been achieved and are therefore not in the same position as demand. I would like to say that there is a gradient also in terms of housing, from a little cheaper to more expensive, and I think it is natural for young people to go to the cheaper part of the housing segment rather than to the most expensive part, which perhaps people who have more years in the labour market are more able to demand. However, this does not mean that you do not have access to housing at all, and that is what is important to note. If Skandia had looked at its own mortgage customers and seen what the development looks like among them, they would probably have come up with the same result as Finansinspektionen does when it conducts mortgage surveys, namely that the proportion of young people among mortgage holders has not actually fallen. Instead, it is stable at about 20 percent of mortgage holders. By contrast, the share has risen by 10 percentage points since 2012, when it was at a significantly lower level. What you look at, however, is that people borrow a little less and that the purchase price has become a little lower. People are therefore asking for a slightly cheaper apartment, perhaps with a little fewer square meters or a location further out from the city centre. This has also led us to see that overall prices are not rising as furiously as they have for quite a number of years – for more than a decade we have had prices that have risen by more than 10 – 15% in the hot housing markets. I would say that something that really shuts young people out of the housing market is rapidly rising prices. This means that, with a fairly stable income, it falls further and further behind in the bidding process and becomes more difficult and harder to enter the housing market. We are now seeing, partly thanks to the measures taken by the Government and Finansinspektionen, a completely different price development – we are not seeing the rapidly rising prices at all, but a stable development over time. I believe that this will make the step in smaller and smaller for many young people, rather than larger and larger, for each year that passes. We are now working on a tax review, which is included in the January agreement. The aim is that the points contained in the January Agreement should be implemented during this term of office. When a review of the tax system is carried out on the grounds that the housing market will function more effectively, it is also possible to see whether we can lower the thresholds for young people to enter the housing market in this context. It is also possible to make an evaluation of the existing tools we have used to reduce the risks of household indebtedness, which is a relevant risk in the Swedish economy. Can this be achieved by other means, for example through changes in the tax system? We are therefore working intensively both to improve the rental market and to ensure that there are apartments for those who need it and to ensure that the housing market – for example through the tax system – works better and more efficiently.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-326	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Prior to the 1966 Municipal elections, Tage Erlander was asked by the three Os what he could afford to give to a young couple who were about to start a family and had no place to live. I do not think that neither the journalists nor Tage Erlander thought the question would be as unanswered 53 years later. It is interesting that the Government mentions that Skandia was looking at the entire market and not just at its own mortgage customers, Madam President – much like it was a methodological error. After all, the whole point is that a number of people cannot take out loans, even though they have education and even though they have a fixed income, because they do not meet the rules. That's what I'm trying to lift in this interpellation. As the Minister himself says in one of his speeches, this is a problem that has existed for a very long time. Then he refers to developments in the market and says that it has always been like this. It'll be a bit of a circular reasoning. Yes, this problem has existed for a long time – as I said, it was difficult to enter the housing market back in 1966 – but the situation has become more difficult. This is due, among other things, to price developments but also to requirements for amortisation, increased requirements for own contribution and so on. What I have tried to highlight in this debate is the question: what does the government want to do to make it easier for young people who do not want to rent, but who actually want to buy – and who have a fixed income – to do so? This is a complex problem, and there are many things that need to be weighed against each other. However, I would say that the current situation is unsustainable, Madam President, and we are in danger of creating a situation in which an entire generation that is working and doing well will nevertheless be shut out of the housing market. I thank the Government for a good debate. I hope that we can continue to discuss these issues further.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-332	Madam President, I would like I think you often get a more relevant picture when you start from what the market actually looks like through actual examples rather than when you do theoretical calculations. If we look at the actual developments, we see that it is not as David Josefsson says, namely that an entire generation is excluded from the mortgage market. On the contrary, the proportion of young people among mortgage holders is stable over time and is around 20 per cent. It is also gratifying from David Josefsson's point of view and from my point of view regarding the attempts to achieve a better balance in the housing market that we now have historically high levels of housing construction. Last year, 55 000 dwellings were placed on the housing market, compared with the average since 1990, which is 30 000. So the pace is almost twice as high as it has been in recent years and decades. Now that we are starting to get a better balance, where supply is clearly increasing, it will also be easier to strike a balance between supply and demand. I would say that it is gratifying that we have managed to get the building act up. We will be anxious to ensure that we can continue to have a high rate of construction, and that is why, among other things, we have a higher gear in housing policy. We set aside resources in the budget to ensure that apartments are built that would otherwise not have come onto the market, such as smaller rental apartments with rents that even people with lower incomes can actually afford to pay. I believe that this is an important part of finding solutions to the problems of the housing market. I do not believe, however, that the solution is as it sometimes sounds, namely to just lower the requirements for mortgage customers and thus shift the risk to those who go into debt to buy housing in a market where prices are at very high levels. It carries risks for the national economy, but it also carries risks for the individual. People still live in Sweden who have debts left over from the 1990s crisis because they had to sell with deficits but remain with the loans. Let us not expose households to such risks! Instead, let us control the credit markets and thus also the housing market.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-336	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me what measures I intend to take to improve the public commitment to geodata and introduce open geodata so that the necessary efficiency gains can be recovered during this term of office. Access to data is becoming increasingly important in more and more areas of society. An orderly access to data of known quality is an important part of the solution to several of our major societal challenges. On behalf of the Government, Lantmäteriet has made estimates of the economic benefits of a combined national availability of geodata in the civil engineering process, showing a potential economic value of SEK 22 – 42 billion. The Government has also commissioned Lantmäteriet to report solutions, costs and an implementation plan for how the infrastructure for geodata should be developed in order to enable a national accessibility of all geodata in the civil engineering process. The mission was finalized in April this year, and the proposals made by the Authority are now being prepared within the Government Office. During 2019, Lantmäteriet, together with several other authorities, has also completed two government assignments on secure and efficient access to basic data and on a secure and efficient electronic exchange of information in the public sector. The proposals made by the authorities are now being prepared within the Government Office. The revised PSI Directive, which Larry Söder mentioned in his interpellation, regulates, among other things, valuable data sets. This involves making documents whose re-use is associated with major socio-economic benefits available free of charge and machine-readable, accessible via application program interfaces and compatible with open licensing conditions. The valuable data sets to be made available will be determined in the framework of an implementing act decided by the European Commission. The Commission intends to adopt an implementing act in summer 2020. As Larry Söder points out, the government has appointed a special investigator who has been tasked with making the proposals that implementation of the revised directive gives rise to. However, the Government has also commissioned Lantmäteriet to identify which data sets are eligible to make available as valuable data sets under the PSI Directive. The Authority shall analyse and report budgetary consequences of making available valuable data sets free of charge. The assignment also includes making suggestions on how to make available the valuable data sets free of charge and to analyse and present the socio-economic benefits that such making available can provide. The mission shall be reported to the Government by 17 January 2020. My intention is to continue developing the process of building society during this term of office, and the authorities' reports are valuable for me and the government to find solutions for the future.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-344	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister very much for his reply. Digitalization is something we have been trying to deal with both at municipal and regional level and at parliamentary level for a number of years. From the beginning we probably didn't really know the potential of this, and we felt a little in the dark in our own municipality or region. Increasingly clear and in more and more areas, the potential of digital data is being recognised and how it can make it easier for us, both as people and for our authorities. Geodata is such an area that is at the beginning of the potential, and it comes with the right management to both introduce efficiency improvements and facilitate both providing and taking information at different stages. Data-driven transformation is now underway in several important areas of society that require better order of data and open data. The Government promised on several occasions during its term of office in 2014– 2018 to present a proposal for open geodata. The recent state-owned company Metrias GIS report 2019 states that there are many obstacles to creating the impact of the investments made in geographical information. Lack of GIS staff, budget constraints and lack of GIS skills are most important. It states that 71% of organisations do not trust their information. In addition, problems arise from the fact that state and municipal geodata are locked up through financial and administrative barriers of various kinds and problems with charging. As the Minister said, the point is that it should be free of charge in one way or another. Sweden is almost ten years behind both Denmark and Finland when it comes to the introduction of open geodata. Evaluations in these two countries show huge economic benefits from their reforms for open geodata as well as huge cost savings and high efficiency gains. In addition, major innovations have been created in business, new services have been launched and many new companies have been established. The Minister describes that Lantmäteriet has calculated that the economic benefit of open geodata in the civil engineering process amounts to SEK 22 – 42 billion. For me, SEK 22 - 42 billion is quite large money. Experience from both Denmark and Finland shows that huge benefits have also arisen in other sectors of society. There are assessors who suggested that the benefits in Sweden of a combined national use of open geodata in all sectors of society may have a potential economic value exceeding SEK 100 billion. As has emerged from the interpellation debate on the processing times for building permits and building construction that Lars Beckman had with the Minister earlier today, there are huge concerns in the form of long waiting times and high fees to the Land Surveying Authority. With open geodata and a digital community building process, data-driven transformation should take place so that processing times and costs are halved. Sweden needs to build more housing, more roads and more railways. Sweden needs to streamline transport, reduce climate emissions and create new innovative companies. To achieve this, open geodata and functioning public commitments are needed. I do not perceive that the Minister and I have different views on the actual potential of geodata. Maybe we're a little different when it comes to how fast to move forward. I understand that the Minister sees that there is a basis for developing concrete options for how to deal with this, and you are well in line. But I see a need for this to be done during the term of office. We are entering a recession, which means that we need to make things more efficient in different areas. There is potential to cope with much of this just by introducing open geodata in an efficient and good way, for the good of all people.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-357	Madam President, I would like Since not everyone knows about geodata, it is perhaps good to go back to the basis of what we are talking about. Geodata can be defined as information linked to a particular location, such as coordinates of the geographical grid system. There are a number of state-owned producers of information linked to sites. Lantmäteriet – what is called the map agency – is a typical such authority, but also the Swedish Maritime Administration and Sweden's geological survey does this type of information development. Today, the information that comes to the fore is largely toll-financed. Many see the economic value of paying for this information, and it is a system that has worked. But as Larry Söder is aware, and as many others have noted, there would be great opportunities to also have great social benefits in different ways and in different areas if this information were to be made available to more people in a simpler way. Here, we from the government have worked to prepare to take these important steps. Among other things, we have given a number of official assignments, including to the National Archives and the Swedish Agency for Growth, regarding how we can take important steps forward. We have also presented in the 2020 budget a number of measures, including the assignment to the Swedish Agency for Digital Management and the assignment to Lantmäteriet, linked to the PSI directive that Larry Söder mentioned in his interpellation. This is, of course, an administrative issue; it is about how we organise our authorities. But it is ultimately also a budget issue, and this must be financed if it is to be possible. Then it is valuable to have the facts clear before making this kind of decision. One concern is that the European Commission has not yet decided on the data sets to be made available under the PSI Directive. We are doing our best to try to analyse these issues and to arrive at the best possible conclusion, but it is not, in the end, until we have a decision from the European Commission that we have all the facts on the table as to what demands will be made from the European Union. However, we can already make efforts at national level today, and so do we. For example, we have a government mission to Lantmäteriet to analyse the economic consequences of making valuable data available under the PSI Directive. This is also a task that will be extended so that you can continue to work and get an even better basis. An interim report will also deal with the socio-economic benefits that such disclosure of data can provide. We then get a better basis on the plus side as well and thus know better what great benefits it can have for society as a whole. This will be reported by 12 June 2020 after consultation with the Swedish Financial Control Agency. Then we will have a better basis. We are also looking at the broader issue of a digital community building process, where geodata is a part and not the whole. We have measures in the 2020 budget aimed at creating a secure, standardised and continuous digital flow of information in the community building process. There, the availability of geodata is an important part. But it is not just that part, but there are many other parts, above all creating common platforms so that we have access to information in a simple and smooth way, which can both shorten build times and reduce costs in the community building process. This is an urgent area on which we are working intensively. Our authorities are now also working on developing a better basis for decision making so that we can go to action and make this type of data available to more actors.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-368	Madam President, I would like I would like to point out what I said in my introductory speech. Much of the revenue we can get from such a way of managing geodata may not be available in the state budget. It is others who gain access to them by creating new, innovative companies or other social components that get the efficiency without it coming directly into the revenue side of the state budget. The problem is that the costs of starting this in one way or another will end up in the state budget. I would like to point out that if this is to be done by the state, it must be made clear that the municipalities do not have an alternative, but they must put themselves in the system in order for it to be as effective and good as possible. They should not create their own systems but use the system provided by the state to avoid creating costs in two places, which our authorities and municipalities are otherwise very good at. I still want to push because this is good for the community. 100 billion is quite a large amount, and I believe that, as ordinary citizens, it is difficult to understand how much this money can be spent. But if we are going into a recession, which we are now doing, and are going to streamline different parts of society, it would be very beneficial if one could oil the machinery with this type of action, which is a cost at the beginning but which has a great potential. I do not think we see the potential now, because there is much that can happen in the future. I do not know if the Minister was clear that it is his view that this should not be toll-financed but free for everyone. This means that everyone has access to it, including businesses, and not only through authorities and municipalities. I think the big gain is opening this up to everyone. My question to the Minister is also: Have we looked at how Finland and Denmark have worked on this so that we can learn from it? They're way ahead of us in development. Since we are now ten years behind, we can take the good things and the lessons from them so that we can handle this better and without any childhood diseases. Then my question is whether the Minister has the view that we should be able to take decisions in Parliament which means that we can bring home the 100 billion, or whether it is 22 or 44 billion, during this parliamentary term, and in any case start the journey and ensure that this is for the benefit of the citizens.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-374	Madam President, I would like I also think that we have a reason for oil machinery and try to ensure that we use common information as efficiently as possible. Sweden is behind the PSI Directive which is currently being worked on at European level and which is precisely about making valuable data sets available. It has been concluded that documents whose re-use is associated with major socio-economic gains – just what we are talking about here – should be made available free of charge. They shall be readable with mechanical equipment and accessible via application software interfaces. They shall also comply with conditions for open licences so as not to lock to specific techniques or similar. These are objectives that are very valuable, and that is why Sweden has supported the proposal. However, we need to define more clearly what applies in the implementing act that is now on the way from the European Commission and what type of data this is about. Only then can we fully follow the directive's guidelines. On the other hand, we have the opportunity to work at the national level as well. The government has also clearly demonstrated through the missions we have given to various authorities that this is an area where we have a high level of ambition and where we want to achieve it. But in order to achieve this, we need to have a solid knowledge base, so that we know what decisions we are making and how to manage this in the best way. This is an area where Sweden is prominent. We are internationally very good at producing this kind of data and ensuring that the data we produce is also reliable. These are values that must not be lost in this process. We must therefore ensure that quality and reliability are at least as good if we move on to a system that is different in financial terms and that we do not fund through fees, but rather through the state budget. We have the same objective. The process is underway. We are working intensively to get to the finish point. Of course, we have the ambition to do this as soon as possible. Personally, I would also like to say that it would be very welcome if, during this parliamentary term, we could take the step forward and ensure that the information we have collected together is made available to the Swedish people and to the companies that Swedes form and create. After all, it is tax money that has enabled us to build up these authorities and that information comes in. There is a great opportunity to streamline the structure of society and ensure that we can build more efficiently and get better information for the construction of society. This is something we are keen to be able to take part in and ensure that it really comes out to society and the national economy. In this context, it is obvious that we study how they have worked in other countries and learn from their processes in order to be able to implement the process in the best possible way also in Sweden.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-381	Madam President, I would like It feels like the Minister and I have about the same objective with this. But I may think that we sometimes go a little slow and that we need to rush a little to move forward. I have heard several times that the investigation is due to be completed in the summer of 2020. Is it the Minister's view that soon after that we can see a proposal from the Minister on what this should look like? Or will it take another year? Something about the timeframe would be very good to hear. Then I would like to point out that what is seen as an obstacle is the lack of GIS staff, budgetary constraints and a lack of GIS competence. This has to be in the package for it to be as good as possible. When digitalisation began at many different levels, both at school and at public authorities, we did not see the potential. Here we see some potential. It would be very good if we could leave behind a system that can show that we have done something that is good for society and that we can use its full potential, if it is about 20, 40 or 100 billion.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-384	Madam President, I would like Let me thank Larry Söder for an interpellation and debate on an important area in which we agree on the great possible benefits for society. It is, of course, difficult to know the processes before we have the results of the investigations. The hope is that solid material will be produced through the investigations. Then there are great opportunities to take it forward as quickly as possible. I can understand why you sometimes find it slow to make government decisions. After all, we have to go through investigations and produce a basis for a referral before it ultimately leads to a proposal. It's a pretty long lead time. The advantage of such a process is that it will be a solid basis that we can rely on and that gives us the opportunity to implement something quickly, efficiently and well, which is also my ambition. There are ongoing processes both in Swedish authorities, from which we will receive evidence, and at European level, and the Commission will clarify how the PSI Directive is to be interpreted. Our determination is, of course, that Sweden should be the leader in this development. We are a leader in digitising our society, and the ambition is that we should also be a leader in making data available. We will ensure that data is available so that we can streamline societal structures and provide opportunities for new innovations and innovative solutions. We will be on this issue and work at a high pace, because this is an urgent area that also has great potential social benefits.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-390	Mr. Old President! Larry Söder has asked me if I am prepared to review the credit restrictions in order to increase mobility in the housing market and increase housing construction. I would like to begin by saying that issues relating to the functioning of the housing market are important for the government. In order to improve mobility in the housing market and increase housing construction, a holistic approach and a long-term approach are needed, which makes a broad political agreement desirable. In accordance with the January Agreement, which is a substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, a comprehensive tax reform is to be implemented aimed, among other things, at improving the functioning of the housing market. Such a review may provide an opportunity to create better conditions for the housing market. The January agreement states that the interest charge on the amount of the deferral shall be removed. In order to increase housing construction, the Government is currently working, in accordance with the January Agreement, on e.g. streamlining and concentrating investment support for rental apartments. The investment aid has been granted for more than 26 000 apartments and is an important tool for creating the conditions for building apartments with reasonable requirements for tenants' ability to pay. It is important that there is good access to rental apartments, as renting is often the case for many new ones in the housing market. I would like to remind you once again that household debt has risen in relation to households' total income over a longer period of time. The risks of increasing indebtedness have been highlighted by both the Government and Finansinspektionen, the National Debt Office and the Riksbank, but also by international assessors, such as the International Monetary Fund and the EU. Several of these, such as the Riksbank, have therefore welcomed the macroprudential measures implemented. In its latest Article IV consultation, the International Monetary Fund also noted that the measures implemented have been well-focused. The purpose of macroprudential measures is to strengthen household resilience and contribute to a healthier amortisation culture in order to reduce the risks associated with household indebtedness. Finansinspektionen has concluded that amortisation requirements have helped to establish a healthier amortisation culture. For a long time Sweden has gone out in an international perspective with small mortgages and mortgages without a distant limit in practice. New mortgage holders are now amortising to a greater extent than before. The Authority's analyses also show that macroprudential measures have led to new mortgage borrowers borrowing less and buying less expensive housing than if the measures were not implemented. The increased amortisation requirement has also reduced the number of new mortgage borrowers with large loans in relation to their income and led to fewer vulnerable households. Overall, this shows that macroprudential measures have strengthened household resilience and contributed to a healthier amortisation culture. Finally, I would like to say that we should, of course, look at further opportunities to increase mobility in the housing market and to stimulate the construction of housing that people can afford. However, the solution to the challenges of the housing market cannot be to unilaterally facilitate further indebtedness. It is important to ensure a supply of housing that meets demand without rolling over the risks to households.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-399	Mr. Old President! I thank the Minister for Housing for his answer. I have every respect for the difficulty in looking at different wills, interests and conditions to find a way forward and to create a functioning housing market. In my interpellation, I gave examples of people who now believe that the housing market is dysfunctional and that politics has a responsibility to demonstrate measures to restore the housing market. Some of them come from the Riksbank and from Sweden's B yggindustrier. On a direct question to the Governor of the Riksbank, he answers that he believes it is directly obvious that politics has done too little to correct the dysfunctional housing market. In this I agree with him. We see reports that housing construction is declining quite sharply. In Stockholm alone, it is almost a halve, and in the country as a whole we will in principle see a sharp decline. It will be only nearly half of the number of homes you would have to build – as a result of the government's policies. These are figures at the beginning of a recession, and this should call on the government to be concerned about future housing supply. This is where we should put in place measures to stimulate the market to start construction and ensure that people have the opportunity to demand the housing they need. The fact is that the credit restrictions have made it very difficult, if not impossible, for an ordinary citizen to buy a self-owned home. People are being asked to meet an interest rate of up to 7 – 8 percent, an interest rate that we find very difficult to see will become a reality in the foreseeable future. At the same time, they ask for repayments and set a ceiling for how much people can borrow at all linked to their annual salary. These restrictions are imposed on a buyer who wants to purchase a self-owned dwelling, where the buyer also undertakes to make all the investments, to take all other costs and to take care of the maintenance linked to a property. This forces more and more people to go to the rental market for a dwelling. The problem is, however, that the strict restriction on borrowing also strikes. It also hits those companies that want to borrow to build rental apartments and not just those who want to build villas or flats. These developments pose problems in reducing the market's mobility when it becomes increasingly difficult to sell their homes or to build new ones. Anyone looking for a new dwelling is increasingly dependent on the rental market. It is under increasing pressure from all sides. There will be pressure from everyone who cannot borrow or buy, while at the same time we have an increasingly large group who, for social reasons, need the support of society in order to get a home that gives them shelter over their heads. My call to the Minister for Housing is to consider and reflect on some suggestions that I am now presenting. Think outside the box, that is outside the JÖK! That would be a request. Review the credit restrictions! They are too tough, and they shut out many people with good income from buying their own home. A mortgage cap at the same time as we have amortisation requirements and the requirement to meet an interest rate of 7 – 8 per cent is far too tough. There should be an evaluation of credit restrictions in order to reduce requirements but still have a system that provides a certain degree of certainty. That should be the goal. Create a housing saving where young people between 18 and 34 years of age who have income from services can save for their first home with support from the state! This would result in more of our young people being able to pay more of the cash. Create a start-up loan so that young people who pass the credit tests and have part of the operation receive a government loan! This would give more young people the opportunity to buy their first home, and we would not have to expose them to the expensive blan k unloans. My question to the Minister for Housing is: can we do this tomorrow?
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-410	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Larry Söder, for the interpellation on an important issue! We constantly need to do what we can to make the housing market work even better and even more effectively. That is why I am pleased that this is a heavy part of the January agreement – the agreement between the Green Party, the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals. There we have a number of different measures aimed precisely at improving the functioning of the housing market. This is, among other things, a major tax review. We have said that it should be done with a particular focus on improving the functioning of the housing market. But it is also a question of taking into account the risks of household indebtedness, which many have warned against and which affects the view of the Swedish economy. If we do not take care of the risks in the Swedish economy, the risk is also that confidence in the Swedish economy will decrease. Measures such as tax-subsidised housing savings could be included. This is something that the Green Party has also put forward as a proposal to lower the thresholds for young people. It may also be a matter of proposals on start-up loans. However, it is important to remember the context in which the interpellation is created. We have a higher level of construction than we have had for a long time. In 2019 approximately 49,000 dwellings will be started, according to forecasts. The cut for the 30 years that have passed since 1990 is about 30 000, so it is a level that is well above what has unfortunately been normal for a long time. The number of homes entering the market is even higher: 60 000 new homes are expected to enter the market in 2019 and 57 000 in 2020, so it is still a very high level. Larry Söder also raises the issues of mobility in the housing market. Here, too, we can see that the concerns expressed by many when we introduced amortisation requirements, that is to say that it would put a dead hand on the market, have far from been resolved. On the contrary – in the first nine months of 2019, 125 000 villas and flats have been sold, and this is at a record level. In this way it can be said that mobility has never been greater. There are also excesses in this debate that I notice a little too often, for example, that people like Larry Söder say that it is impossible for an ordinary citizen to take out loans. Actually, it is not, as we see when we look at the statistics. On the contrary, household indebtedness continues to increase in Sweden, but at a lower rate than it has for a long time at a very rapid rate of increase. The Mortgage Survey also shows that young people today receive loans to about the same extent as before. 20 per cent of mortgage holders are young, and so was the case before 2016. By contrast, this proportion had increased since 2012, when the share receiving loans was only about one-half. Contrary to what some claim, therefore, young loans also receive in today's credit market. On the other hand, the effects of amortisation requirements and the ceiling on mortgages have been reduced. You don't borrow as much, and it also makes you look for homes that have a slightly lower price. As a result, the development of housing prices is much calmer now than it has been for a long time. When prices rise by 10 to 15 per cent each year, it is easy for a person with a low income to see how the market moves further and further away from the prices that can be paid. This is certainly not the way to allow young people to enter the market, whereas a calmer development of housing prices makes wage developments, for example, more able to keep up. I think it is positive that we now have stable price developments in the market.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-420	Mr. Old President! We can start where I and the Minister agree: we agree that it is a good thing that the price increase does not take place to such an extent as before. That's great. Sweden's Construction Industries had a debate article this week, which says that there will be 7,800 fewer homes per year with the amortisation requirement. Soon it will only be the Minister of Housing who claims that the amortisation requirement does not affect housing construction, so perhaps one should reassess one's thinking path in this regard. Amortisation requirements have an impact. Demand for housing has an impact on who builds and how much you build. The figures are presented in the statistics. In 2019, fewer dwellings were built than in 2018, and by 2020, it is forecast that less will be built than in 2019. In other words, it is a sloping plan, and then measures should be taken to increase housing construction. Housing construction is an engine in the Swedish economy. If we lose too much housing, the Swedish economy is clearly going down, and we must counteract this in every way. Furthermore, I have heard the Minister say quite a number of times that we should have a broad agreement on tax policy, referring to the JÖK, that is, the January agreement. I in my wild world have believed that this applies to all parties in the Swedish parliament. However, the Minister only lists those who are included in the January Agreement. Should I interpret it as meaning that the Minister believes that, with the January agreement, you have made a tax debate that the Parliament may take a position on? Or will there be discussions with all parties in Parliament? I have assumed that this is actually the way it should be, that is, that all parties in the Riksdag can participate in that discussion. I also had the pleasure of listening to the Minister's previous interpellation debate. There I noted that the Minister said that there could be measures in the future aimed at young people who find it difficult to enter the housing market. I would like to ask the Minister what the measures are. Is it starting loans and housing couples that the Minister is thinking about then, or are there any other measures that the Minister is thinking about? I have an idea that the amortisation requirement is so harsh. We are not saying that we should remove the amortisation requirement altogether. However, we must somehow review the amortisation requirement to make it easier to borrow. We cannot shovel all people into rental housing, because we cannot cope with the housing market by building so many rental apartments. We need to build both owned properties and rental apartments. I therefore believe that the amortisation requirement should be reviewed in its entirety. But remove it completely, I never said.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-426	Mr. Old President! When you paint these measures as so far-reaching, I think that there is reason to look at what they look like in reality. The second amortisation requirement, for example, concerns only about 11% of new mortgage holders, who are affected by the second amortisation requirement at all. Then you should remember that new mortgage holders are a considerably smaller part of the total mortgage stock, where a lot of Swedes are included. So trying to paint it as a draconian action, like Larry Söder, may be a little exaggerated. It is also important to point out that ambitions can be good. Efforts are being made to help young people or people on low incomes, for example. But it is also important to think longer about finding accurate methods. One example is Denmark, which did some of what Larry Söder is now asking for. It introduced grace-free loans, i.e. it removed the restrictions that existed on the Danish credit market precisely with the argument that young people must be helped to enter the housing market. Now that you have evaluated it, you can see that the effect was that the credits increased. People took more loans in general, and prices rose in the Danish housing market. This did not lead to better access to housing. What happened was higher credit and higher prices, and young people did not get better access. Thus, the distribution of those who bought did not change at all by this reform. I think it is worth having that kind of experience in mind when we are now calling for new reforms. It must be ensured that reforms are fairly accurate and appropriate. Therefore, if action is to be taken, I rather believe in measures aimed at this particular group. For example, a tax-beneficial housing saving could be such a reform that lowers the threshold on the housing market by allowing one to save up for one's cash stake for a short period of time. I would also like to point out that the January agreement has a rather broad platform precisely on housing issues, precisely because the housing market is wide and we people have a wide demand with different preferences. There we have, for example, to review the rental model when it comes to both new construction and the existing stock of rental apartments. It is also a matter of removing the removal tax by abolishing the interest on the amount of the deferral, which is also a way of reducing the thresholds for triggering more migration chains and adapting the existing stock to be used effectively, and of implementing comprehensive regulatory simplifications, which are, of course, a point in the January agreement and which are hotly requested not least by those who are going to build. We can both shorten construction times and reduce the cost of building. We also have investment aid, which is an important measure. So far, 26 000 apartments that would otherwise not have been built have been put on the market, with rents that people can actually afford to pay and also with high environmental ambitions. So it is a broad agenda. In addition, we also have measures aimed at reducing the environmental burden from builders, which in the long term is very good for a stable housing market. As Larry Söder points out, we also have a review of the tax system. We're going to do a bigger tax burden. If there is any interest in participating in reforms that will give us a better functioning housing market from a tax point of view, that is obviously something that I welcome, and I very much appreciate if Larry Söder wants to participate in such discussions. At the same time, I think it is important not to exaggerate the effects of the measures that have been taken. Something that is also worth bearing in mind is that Sweden's Byggindustrier, who has now been out criticising these measures, already in 2015– before both the first and the second amortisation requirement– came up with a forecast that the construction rate would decrease. Perhaps something has now been found to point out as an argument for why the construction act is decreasing, but it was therefore something that was already in the forecasts before.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-436	Mr. Old President! My concern, of course, is not the amortisation requirement itself, but my concern is that young people cannot leave home. Students cannot move to their places of study because there are no apartments – or housing at all. You cannot take a new job in a new city because there are no apartments or housing. You can't get a loan for your own accommodation either. That is the basis of the problem. Amortisation requirements are a major culprit, which I think we need to review. It's great that you're reviewing the rental model, but it won't create any new housing. Interest-bearing is great, but it won't create any new housing. We can discuss whether investment support is good, but it does not create new housing. The statistics show – and the Minister can see for himself – that the number of dwellings built in 2018 decreased compared to the number for 2019, even with investment support. If the Minister's statistics had shown the opposite, I would have agreed with the Minister, but the statistics show that housing construction decreases when there is investment support. It supports my thesis, that is to say, that housing is being built in any case, but it has chosen to build rental apartments instead of residential units or own housing with the same money – just because there is state support, unfortunately. It would have been better to put that money in support of the state to ordinary citizens so that they can manage their housing. I believe that the Minister must nevertheless accept the hand and ensure that all parties in Parliament are involved in discussing the matter. I also believe that we can agree that it is not a measure that makes the housing market work without a whole series of measures, but I have shown a measure that is the largest and most important part. It's nice that we agree on bospar. That's where we can move forward.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-440	Mr. Old President! However, when Larry Söder highlights students, I must point out that a waiver of the amortisation requirement would not do them much good. With study grants and student loans as income alone, it is not possible to enter the credit market in any case. It is more important to do what we do, namely to ensure that much more student apartments are built than it has been in a long time. Through our assignment to Akademiska Hus, a total of 21,000 new student apartments will be built by 2030. This is an increase of 20% compared to the existing stock today. It is through these kinds of measures that we can really make sure that we help students to study their dream education or courses. Larry Söder is engaged in counterfactual history writing. I think it's better to ask those who actually build. SKL, Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils, have done so. A study shows that investment aid has had a major impact in building cheaper than otherwise, so that housing is more accessible to people with lower incomes and that it is actually being built where it would not have been possible to build without investment support. It is important to take into account the housing market and ask those who are actually active in the housing market to get a true picture. It is important that we now have a healthy amortisation culture in Sweden. We were headed in a risky direction. Sweden stuck out internationally by having loans that were basically eternal without any amortisation at all. It was a dangerous direction for Sweden, not least for many young people who were in debt for life. Perhaps they do not have the experience we have that has been involved in the fact that economic cycles are not just going up, but are actually going down. Then households are at great risk if they have a high level of indebtedness in relation to their income. We need to continue to take steps to achieve an even better functioning housing market. But housing is at record levels, and we should be happy about that. This will improve the balance between supply and demand in the housing market.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-445	Mr. Old President! Lars Adaktusson has asked the Prime Minister whether it is compatible with the government's work against anti-Semitism to support or fund the BDS movement and similar groups that require boycotts by the State of Israel and whether the Swedish government supports the recently made political decisions in Germany and the United States, which mean that the BDS movement is defined as anti-Semitic. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Let me begin by saying that I naturally agree with what Lars Adaktusson writes about the need to combat anti-Semitism in all its contexts. The government is very clear in this area. And just as Lars Adaktusson has noted, next year the Prime Minister will host an international high-level forum on the remembrance of the Holocaust and the fight against anti-Semitism as part of this important work. In conjunction with the General Assembly, the Prime Minister met an opening World Jewish Congress, and his associates met with the Conference of the Major Presidents of American Jewish Organizations. I myself discussed the work against anti-Semitism with the American Jewish Committee during my visit to New York. Let me be clear: the vote does not support a boycott of Israel. BDS is a civil society movement, which has the right to express and stand for its own views. The government does not equate anti-Semitism with BDS. The government protects good relations with Israel and works for increased exchanges, not less, in a number of areas such as innovation, research and trade. Trade with both Israel and Palestine, according to the 1967 internationally recognised borders, is something the government values and intends to promote and develop further. No matter how other countries choose to act to combat anti-Semitism, the government's commitment to anti-Semitism is clear. Sweden is a co-founder and an active member of the International Alliance for the Origin of the Holocaust (IHRA).
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-450	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by thanking Ann Linde for her reply to my interpellation, although it was addressed to Prime Minister Löfven. With all due respect to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I believe that there is a great value here in the fact that the Head of Government is taking the floor. Stefan Löfven has also said that he has a personal commitment to this particular issue, so I think many would have appreciated if the country's Prime Minister had shown that commitment in this House today. Having said that, I would like to emphasise the essentials on which we agree. Anti-Semitism does not belong in any democratic society. It is quite repulsive that people of Jewish background are met with hatred and threats — because they are Jews. According to the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights, nine out of ten Jews experience an increase in anti-Semitism in Europe. At the same time, more and more people are considering emigrating. In Sweden, this figure has increased from 18 per cent in 2012 to 35 per cent in 2018. We know that, in parallel with development, certain groups are growing that convey strongly anti-Israeli and anti-Semitic views. One of those groups is precisely the BDS movement, which is working to punish Israel through sanctions and boycott actions. To actively counteract this, the German Bundestag last spring decided to classify the BDS movement as anti-Semitic. The decision, which was taken with broad political agreement, calls on the German Government not to support activities organised by the BDS movement. In a direct parallel, reference is made to 1930s Germany and anti-Semitic campaigns with slogans such as At the end of July, the BDS movement was also dealt with in the House of Representatives in the US Congress. With the votes 398 against 17, a resolution was adopted condemning the movement and clarifying that the BDS undermines the possibility of a negotiated solution in Israel – the Palestine conflict. A similar decision has also been taken by the Senate. Mr. Old President! Anti-Semitism must be combated in all the contexts where it is located," says the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The BDS movement questions the Jewish state of Israel and the Jews as a national people, which is anti-Semitism.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-457	Mr. Old President! The government does not equate anti-Semitism with BDS. To advocate by peaceful means boycotting Israel in order to put an end to the occupation is not anti-Semitism. In our last interpellation debate, Lars Adaktusson mentioned that it is, of course, perfectly legitimate to question the Israeli Government's policy of occupation and settlements. I naturally share this view and welcome the consensus on these important issues. The UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion and Convince Ahmed Shaheed deals with the presence of anti-Semitism globally this year in his report to the UN. The BDS movement is also involved in the report. The rapporteur recalls that boycott is a legitimate political expression under international law and that non-violent expressions in support of boycotts are protected by freedom of expression. On the other hand, expressions that use rivet images or anti-Semitic stereotypes, deny Israel's right to existence, or discriminate against Jewish people because of their religion must be clearly condemned whenever they occur. Of course, I and the government agree with this. I note that a number of human rights organisations, including Israelis such as Mr Tselem, have criticised the German non-binding resolution and are opposed to the view that the BDS is tantamount to anti-Semitism. Through the assistance, Sweden, the EU and other donors support a number of civil society organisations that work in various ways to promote democracy, human rights and accountability in and by both Israel and Palestine. We are doing this to strengthen the contribution of human rights organisations to free and pluralist societies, not because we support the BDS movement or its activities. Swedish support goes, among other things, to organisations that also criticise the Israeli occupation with the aim of ending the occupation. This is also the EU's declared policy – a two-state solution with an end to the occupation. Both the UN and the EU criticise the Israeli occupation and note that the construction of settlements constitutes a violation of international law. This is fully supported by the government. The government will always defend international law, regardless of context. It is out of the question that the government should pursue a policy that restricts the exercise of fundamental human rights such as freedom of expression. Taking various forms of restrictive measures against persons or organisations on the grounds of peaceful expression of opinion goes against Swedish constitution and international law. The imposition of an entry ban on organisations promoting the BDS, as Israel, is not the way forward.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-464	Mr. Old President! The government does not equate anti-Semitism with BDS. That's the message from the Secretary of State. Two of the great Western countries that have been at the forefront of the fight against anti-Semitism throughout the post-war period have just made a diametrically different assessment. The Bundestag in Germany and Congress in the United States class the BDS movement as anti-Semitic. A similar message from the Swedish government could have contributed to weakening the forces that fight the existence of the Jewish state. It could also strengthen confidence in the government's own work against anti-Semitism. It is important to condemn everything that is called anti-Semitism clearly, but it is even more important to show in action that the words are important. Against this background, the government's announcement of the BDS movement is here and now deeply problematic. It is also problematic that Swedish tax money through aid efforts in Palestinian areas ends up with organisations that spread anti-Semitism. Several such examples exist – as when the IHL in 2017 passed on money to a women's organisation in the West Bank that named a youth farm after a notorious Palestinian anti-Semite and terrorist. Important donor countries such as Switzerland, Denmark and the Netherlands had enough and decided to freeze their aid to the IHL. Sweden didn't do it. The red-green government has chosen to keep the Palestinian leadership and Mahmoud Abbas under arms – the Mahmoud Abbas who has repeatedly made anti-Semitic statements, who in his doctoral thesis blames the Holocaust on the Jews and who is politically responsible for the fact that Palestinian children are fed anti-Semitic stereotypes in school books and teaching materials year after year. Mr. Old President! Anti-Semitism must be combated in all its contexts. We agree on that. But that also applies beyond the borders of our country. On the one hand, to say that anti-Semitism is never acceptable and, on the other hand, to speak of Palestinian Fatah as the dear sister party of Social Democracy is not compatible. Nor does it argue, on the one hand, that the government's commitment to the issue is clear and, on the other hand, does not condemn anti-Semitism in the BDS movement. When hostility toward Israel and hatred of the Jewish people take root, it is a serious warning signal — wherever in the world it occurs. My question is: what is the Swedish Government doing to counter anti-Semitism in the Middle East and not least in Palestinian areas, Ann Linde?
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-472	Mr. Old President! That anti-Semitism still exists more than seven decades since the Holocaust is a disgrace. The clarity of the government cannot be mistaken: Anti-Semitism must be fought with all the forces of society. The Prime Minister himself is clear that he will do what he can as Prime Minister to counter anti-Semitism in our time and in our country. The government has, among other things, taken steps to strengthen the work against hate crimes, enabled more students to visit the Holocaust memorial sites in Europe and increased support for security-enhancing measures to Jewish parishes and other organisations. Next year, world leaders will be welcomed to a high-level forum in Malmö on how to jointly secure the remembrance of the Holocaust and counteract anti-Semitism. All good forces are required to mark against anti-Semitism in all its forms, no matter where it comes from. Anti-Semitism is not just the problem of the Jews but a problem for everyone and a threat to society as a whole. The Jews are one of Sweden's five national minority groups, and Jews have been part of Sweden for many centuries. Jewish culture and Jewish life are an inalienable part of our country today and will be so in the future as well. This is why the government has contributed to the establishment of Paideia, a folk high school for Jewish studies in Stockholm. As a speaker, I and Minister of Education Anna Ekström attended a celebration at Paideia just recently. Protecting minorities is a central task of democracy. Let me be clear once again: the government opposes a boycott of Israel and wishes more of exchange and cooperation with Israel, not less. The government is also clear in its support for Israel's need for security, and I stress: Israel's right of existence is not negotiable. The threats facing the State of Israel take the government very seriously. The fact that Israel is in a region where its existence is called into question makes it more vulnerable. This is a region where there is a great need for strengthened democracy and greater respect for human rights. As a contribution to an improved situation, the government has invested SEK 1.85 billion for the period 2016 – 2020 to help counter fundamental conflict causes and to improve the conditions for peace, stability and freedom in the region. This also benefits Israel. Sweden is actively working towards individual countries and in multilateral contexts to strengthen respect for freedom of religion and belief. Our ambassador for human rights, democracy and the rule of law is constantly pushing this issue and leading the Swedish delegation to the International Alliance for the Memorial, which Sweden has initiated. The government also has a special envoy for intercultural and interreligious dialogue, whose mission is to combat anti-Semitism. An important focus is to reach out on this issue in the Middle East.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-483	Mr. Old President! The Foreign Minister talks about Israel's vulnerability, and I appreciate that; it is welcome and important. For Israel, anti-Semitism is a direct and deadly threat. The Middle East is today – let us not forget – the centre of the world's anti-Semitism, with mass production of anti-Jewish propaganda, mythisation and direct calls for violence against Jews. The statutes of Hamas require the destruction of Israel, but also the killing of Jews wherever they are. Hizbollah welcomes Jewish migration to Israel because it simplifies the killing of the world's Jews. Iran proclaims the extermination of the Jewish state as a sacred mission. Mr. Old President! Antisemitism did not start with Nazism, and it did not end with the Holocaust. In our country, anti-Semitism is today the common denominator of destructive forces which, according to the Security Service, represent the most serious threat to security. Islamism, the autonomous left and the extreme right are all driven by anti-Semitic delusions. Therefore, what the government does to anti-Semitism is of great importance, and therefore what the government does not have major consequences, both for us in Sweden and in the outside world.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-487	Mr. Old President! To conclude, I would like to emphasise that we are in agreement. Anti-Semitism and threats to Israel must be combated and taken very seriously. But this is what the government does. It is regrettable to make the important issue of the fight against anti-Semitism a contentious issue, rather than highlighting the broad consensus that prevails. Contributing to supporting movements that criticise Israel's policy or Israeli occupation and advocate boycott of Israel with censorship does not belong in a democracy. Sweden is a country where respect for fundamental human rights, such as freedom of expression, is and under several governments has been a fundamental pillar of our policy and a fundamental value in Swedish society. It will continue to be under this government. Respect for international law is also a cornerstone of Swedish politics and will continue to be so. In doing so, I would like to thank Lars Adaktusson for addressing these important issues in another interpellation – I appreciate that.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-491	Mr. Old President! Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me what measures I intend to take to initiate within the EU and the UN a resolution that prevents and condemns Turkey's clearly threatening policy against the population of Rojava in Syria. Magnus Jacobsson has asked me what I and the government are doing to counteract the Turkish attack on, among other things, the Kurds in northern Syria and how I and the government are acting to deal with the IS supporters and children who are detained in Kurdish prison camps. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. The situation in north-eastern Syria has developed in a very dramatic and worrying direction. In violation of international law and despite strong international reactions, Turkey continued its military attack. The instability of the whole region has deepened, and there is growing concern about the reactivation of Daish. The consequences are still insurmountable, and the conditions for a political solution seem to be removed at the moment. The already difficult humanitarian situation has worsened further. At least 165,000 civilians are now on the run. It is difficult for the UN and relief organisations to deliver humanitarian aid. We are in close contact with Kurdish representatives in the region, with aid organisations and with other countries that have citizens or affiliated in the camps. The government condemns the military offensive and has repeatedly called on Turkey to stop it and the attacks on the Kurds and minorities such as Syrians, Assyrians and Yazidians living in the region. After eight years of conflict, it is now sustainable peace we need, not an in-depth conflict. Military action can never lead to a lasting peace in Syria. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has an ongoing dialogue with representatives of the Turkish Embassy. At meetings with Turkey's ambassador, the Ministry has expressed Sweden's concern about the military operation in north-eastern Syria. We have stressed that we take development very seriously and that Turkey's security is not strengthened by military action in violation of international law, but by political means, diplomacy and dialogue. Turkey should therefore immediately withdraw its military forces from Syrian territory. At the EU Foreign Minister's meeting on 14 October, Member States agreed to both condemn Turkey's military offensive and take strong action against arms exports to Turkey – something that Sweden was pushing for. The possibility of further restrictive measures cannot be excluded. Sweden has not supplied weapons for military use to Turkey since at least the 1960s. In recent years, ISP has announced a number of refusals concerning exports to Turkey. On 15 October 2019, ISP revoked all export authorisations concerning the sale of Swedish war material to Turkey. This means that no armaments export can take place. We are in close contact with the Kurdish authorities in the region, with aid organisations and with other countries that have citizens or affiliated in the camps. However, it is a very complicated job, not least to identify children with a connection to Sweden. In the light of recent developments in Syria, uncertainty has increased. The situation on the ground is changing very quickly, and the work with orphans and other children linked to Sweden is in danger of being made even more difficult. The whole of the international community must continue to strive to create the conditions for a peaceful political solution to the conflict in Syria in line with UN Security Council Resolution 2254. Turkey's unilateral action is a serious obstacle to these efforts. Sweden has continued to work, tirelessly and purposefully, within the framework of the UN, the EU and bilaterally, for a political solution to the political and humanitarian crisis in Syria.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-504	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for an ambitious response. It is of course gratifying that Sweden has pushed for the EU Member States to agree both to condemn Turkey's military offensive against Rojava and the Kurds and to stop arms exports. This should have been done when Turkey attacked Afrin a year ago. Unfortunately, however, it is not enough to stop Erdo aan's aggression and occupation of another country. It is a crime of international law, and the United Nations should in fact ensure that it is stopped, even if Russia and the United States are working together to give more power to Turkey and Iran, as well as to Putin. It is a geopolitically complex situation that the international powers have created there. And who pays the price? Yes, it is the Kurds and other human groups, not least children and women. That is why I believe that we in Sweden can and must do everything in our power to stop this. Erdo中an does not care about arms exports from Sweden or other countries, even if weapons are important. Turkey is a NATO country, and they have a weapons arsenal that is very strong. The only way to influence Erdo中an – he has a very difficult economic situation at home – is financial sanctions. I know it's not always good, but today you have to do it. I hope, and I would also like to receive an answer on this, that Sweden also wants to take the next step and impose financial sanctions and also call home its ambassador. There has been dialogue, and the outside world has acted. But Erdo中an said today that he wants to crush more skulls. He has said this in The Guardian, and I have read it in Swedish media. He is aggressive, and he is against all people who are democratically minded. In his country there are hundreds of thousands of people-- Kurds, journalists, lawyers-- who can develop democracy. But democracy is Erdo中an's enemy, and he sees the Kurds as a threat. Erdo中an has always believed that Daish and IS are his friends, not the Kurds, for the Kurds, together with other minorities, have created a unique social structure during burning wars. Erdo中an has felt threatened by this. There are women with, and minorities murdered and persecuted in his country, such as Alevites, Armenians and many others. Therefore, we in Sweden must do what we usually do very well, namely broker peace. Turkey cannot invade another country. Can't you ask why you give Erdo中an the right to demand that the Kurds withdraw 32 kilometres or more? 300 000 people are on the run, and yet we are giving money to Erdo中an to stop refugees. That doesn't make any sense! We must stop this money, which is actually based on an agreement between Sweden, the European Union and Erdo中an. I hope that we will now have an answer to this.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-511	Mr. Old President! Madam Foreign Minister! I would like to begin by saying that what has happened in a short time is that the President of the United States, via his Twitter diplomacy, is betraying allies in the form of Turkmen, Yazidians, various Christian groups and Kurds. This has created not only a critical and terrible situation in northern Syria but also greater uncertainty. What makes another party in the Middle East able to trust the United States at all? What makes the parties in Asia able to trust the United States? How will the European parties that have security agreements with the US be able to trust it? You don't know what Twitter is coming next week. This has created a uncertainty that is terrible on the ground, and uncertainty is at least equal throughout the international world system. I wrote my interpellation at a very early stage. I can see that I have actually received answers to many of my questions. I am grateful that we in Sweden are reacting as strongly as the government, the parliament, individual parties, individual members, journalists and so on. There is a big popular reaction in Sweden where you say: This is not okay! I am extremely grateful and happy about it. I am also grateful and happy that arms exports are rejected. It should have been done sooner. I agree with the previous speaker on this. I also understand that the government signals that one should be able to look at doing more things. For my part, I am somewhat hesitant to touch the agreement on resources for refugee camps in Turkey, but one could very well look at a tourist boycott. Is it something that would feel in the Turkish economy it is if people stop flying there. For my part, I will not be holidaying in Turkey until there is peace and before you stop both oppressing your own people and attacking neighbouring countries. The second part of my interpellation is due to the fact that the Kurds and YPG at an early stage said that Sweden should bring home children and relatives who are in camp. They themselves stated that they would not be able to deal with this over time. Personally – I want to make it clear that this is my personal opinion – I believe that it should have acted harder and much earlier to bring these children home. Children can never be held responsible for what the parents have done. It's a legal tradition. Children are always innocent. Children can never bear the responsibility of adults. But because we have not dealt with this, we now have a situation where the camps become even more uncertain. We also have another security risk. There I firmly believe that this is part of the Turkish military strategy. By bombing near the camps YPG is forced to back away so that people can escape. That means we get Daish warriors coming back. It is a threat to the Middle East in the first place, when they can reclaim areas and start fighting there. But it is also a threat to Europe, as these troops can try in various ways to enter Europe as pretend refugees. We must stand up and condemn the Turkish attack even more clearly and together. I hope that the government can also envisage further measures.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-520	Mr. Old President! I note that both interpellants, myself and the government are extremely upset about the situation that exists. The government has also publicly condemned Turkey's military offensive and described it as a violation of international law. We have also called, in direct talks with representatives of the Turkish Government, for the immediate withdrawal of all Turkish and Turkish-supported military units from north-east Syria. Within the UN, we are working to ensure that the UN Security Council takes responsibility for preventing an escalation of the conflict. Within the EU, we pushed for sanctions through a stop to arms exports, and we have been given strong support for a more coordinated EU action on arms exports to Turkey. I must stress that, at our meeting with the Foreign Ministers, many NATO countries also supported this, albeit not all of them. The application of other restrictive measures cannot be excluded. The EU uses the sanctions instrument as part of an integrated and inclusive policy towards the country that we want to influence. The sanctions are seen as a last resort. The restrictive approach is to use first and foremost the measures that are considered to have the greatest effect, in this case the arms embargo or the suspension of arms exports. The EU could then consider further steps and extend sanctions to include other restrictive measures. That is something we have also stated. When it comes to calling home ambassador, as Amineh Kakabaveh said, or bringing our ambassador home, the government does not believe that this is the right way to go. We want to have the opportunity to tell the ambassador exactly what we think about this and thus get it straight home to the Turkish Government. We also want our diplomats to say so on the ground. Finally, it concerns the children. We continue to work to bring the children home, but it is very complicated. It is important to ensure that these children are connected to Sweden. And you can't just take the kids away from their mothers. Sometimes they have a mother from Sweden and a father from another country. For example, the father may be in prison or you may not know who it is. Then different laws apply: Swedish laws, laws in the country where the father is from and international laws. We also know that many of the mothers support Daish and may have committed crimes in the name of Daish. So it's a lot more complicated than just taking the kids home. We've brought home seven orphans. There are no other countries in the European circle with which we cooperate very much, which have done something significantly different from Sweden. We work together to see if we can find better ways to eventually bring the children home safely for everyone.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-527	Mr. Old President, Mr. Secretary of State. Of course, it is not good not to have dialogue. But the problem is that Erdo中an doesn't care about the whole world. We know that. It's a deal between him, Putin, Trump and Iran in this region-- we all know that. This he will drive just as he wants. Then the question is: how much longer are we going to wait for him to bomb and start another multi-religious and ethnic war in the region? It is a region that is already bombed and very badly affected by war after war. We must stop this now, before hundreds of thousands more are driven on the run. That's what he wants. He wants the Kurds and other minorities to leave their territories, because he wants an Arabisation of the areas where the Kurds and other minorities are. We've known that for a long time. And he's been able to keep these refugees by giving money. Sweden and the EU are sending money to him. Many say: No, but it is not for Erdo中an. Yes, because it is an agreement between several countries. It's not really for relief agencies. Of course, many of these people or Daish groups are fighting with Turkey. According to Amnesty's latest report, young female politician Havrin Khalaf was executed in cold blood when she was in a car from Qamishli to another region. The aid workers were tied up and executed by Daish and Turkish-supported Daish. We met representatives from Rojava, both with Kurdish background and with other religious and ethnic backgrounds. They said that Turkey is arming these Daish women in particular, who were released. It was in the fight in Al ‐ Ayn I think it's called that. I agree that we cannot bring home people who are prepared to kill themselves and fight against democracy. But that's what Erdo中an wants. That's why he wants the Kurds to be withdrawn. It is very important to point out that as long as the PKK is on the terror list, Erdo中an will claim that all Kurds fighting for freedom are terrorists. We in Parliament and in other democratic assemblies in Europe are in his reports, every year. All I myself and others want is a peaceful solution to the situation of the Kurds and other minorities. I don't want war. In fact, I don't think anyone wants war. That's why we have to stop it. I'm thinking about this with suspicions of chemical weapons and when we get traces there. Many children have been burned, and international experts are investigating this. You have to see that this is a war crime. We must be able to talk about the fact that Mr Erdo中an must be brought to justice in the International Court of Justice in The Hague. He has so many times committed crimes against his own people, his own Kurds and in another country. There are other wars, and many times he has bombed villages in Kurdistan, Iran. It's an international war he starts.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-533	Mr. Old President and Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde! I am the first to agree that this is an incredibly difficult conflict. It is a conflict that has many bottoms. Unfortunately, it is a conflict in which different international interests are involved and pull different strings. There are completely different interests against each other, and still on the ground are women, children, old Christians, Kurds, Yazidians, Turkmen and Armenians who are affected by this practice of violence. I fully share the view that this is a violation of the laws of war. It's a violation of international law. It is an attack that is totally disproportionate to the threat Turkey considers itself to have. In other words, it is an abuse. I also think it is deeply offensive now that I see how it rolls out an advertising campaign online and in other contexts in order to go to Turkey and have a holiday. It is clear that, at the same time as this attack is taking place, we are doing what we can to secure our economy. That is why, among other things, I am raising this issue. Next to the military part which stops arms exports, the tourism industry is perhaps the most sensitive to Turkey. If it were not so sensitive, they would not be launching this whole advertising campaign for tourism in Turkey right now, which I hope as many people as possible will not do. You can choose not to do that on a voluntary basis. I share the view of the children. I was careful in my speech to talk about the children, because we have some different laws in Sweden. I think about when parents bring children into a war zone and when the parents obviously raise the children in such a way that one can forcefully question the suitability of the parents. In other contexts, I have criticised, for example, the Palestinian Authority for teaching children war against Israel in kindergartens, funded with Swedish money. This kind of behaviour, regardless of organisation, actually makes it possible to ask ourselves, on the basis of our social services law, whether these parents are appropriate or whether they should act according to LVU. Now they are not here, so it is very difficult to act according to LVU. But I want to be careful that what I talked about was that children are children and that children are innocent. It was above all them that I focused on in that part of my interpellation. I simply mean that it must be clearly visible to parents. If you take your own children into a war zone and bring them into a terrorist organisation, then society must react. Then society cannot just sit on the sidelines and say that it was okay to travel away and do so. It's not okay. It is not okay to use children in this way and make them combatants through upbringing. The clarity of parental responsibility, the clarity that children have the right to security and clarity in our condemnation of Turkey, is what I continue to want. I understand that the government has an openness in order to take the next step. I would like to conclude by saying that I find it deeply offensive to the advertising of tourism precisely when Turkey is engaged in an illegal war with clearly more violence than at all corresponds to the threat they describe themselves to have. I fully share the view that this is a violation of international law.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-540	Mr. Old President! As fellow humans, of course, we are extremely upset about what is going on. There are many Swedes with Kurdish background or who belong to other minorities who have family or family in the area. I must also say that I very much share the outrage that children can be taken to such areas. That's why we're trying to get the kids home. But just as Magnus Jacobsson says, we can't use LVU down there. Then the mothers must be brought home first, and that is also a problem. How do you do it when they may have committed this kind of crime and confess to Daish? There are so many complex factors. But of course we want the children home. They have exactly, as the honourable Member says, no guilt in this. We have great respect for the sacrifices made by the Kurds in the fight against Daish. Both the Kurdish group and minorities such as Assyrians/Syrians, Yazidians and so on must be protected. It is important that these parties to the conflict respect the rules of humanitarian law. This also applies to the activities of relief organisations and the protection of civilians. What Amineh Kakabaveh mentioned when it comes to attacking the activities of relief organisations, and politicians for that matter, is totally against all rights that exist and must be condemned. Sweden is one of the largest donors of humanitarian aid to the Syrian crisis. We will continue our commitment to alleviating distress and saving lives, not least in order for children to be better off. Since 2011, when the Syria crisis began, we have contributed more than 3.2 billion to humanitarian efforts. We now have regional strategies for Syria of 1.8 billion in 2016 – 2020. Last Thursday we decided on an additional 100 million to north-east Syria, and perhaps especially to make it easier for children. This situation has been further complicated by the agreement made by the Kurdish administration with Damascus, which has opened up the area to the Syrian army. There is an imminent danger that there will be a military escalation with insurmountable consequences for the whole regional balance. When there is such instability in the area, it only benefits Daish. Although Daish has been defeated territorially, Daish still poses a great threat. They may grow stronger the more opportunities they see, for example now that we have been informed that Daish warriors have escaped from prisons and camps. I now hope that the ceasefire agreement between Turkey and the United States will be upheld. It's going out formally tonight. But the risk of confrontation persists. We must have an international dialogue in order for Turkey to withdraw its troops and for Kurds and other minorities to have rights and live their lives in this area.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-546	Mr. Old President! I thank the Foreign Minister for this. We fully agree that this war must be stopped. We are proud to belong to a humanitarian country, but we must first stop the war. Mr Erdo is of the opinion that the EU and Sweden are giving money to those affected. But he's making the victims. The victims have been created by the wars of the great powers, by regional powers and by international ones. We know that these mad men – Erdo 中 an, Putin and Bashar al-Asad-Assad – and Iran have merged in one way or another in terms of the balance of power in various conflicts between the EU and, for example, Putin. They use ordinary people and war to defeat democracy. I can't. We have to stop that. We in Sweden are going to give help to people directly to organisations and not to Turkey. I would like to know whether Sweden will highlight this issue in the UN for a resolution and, pending a resolution, send messengers and reporters. What about chemical attacks? What about these people? Why should Turkey be in these areas? The Kurds must be given the opportunity to have their territory. I don't want them to be forced to be placed. There will not be a sectarian and ethnic war again in the area. I hope that Sweden will demand that this money for Turkey be stopped, that action be taken at the UN and also that Mr Erdo be brought to justice because he has committed war crimes.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-551	Mr. Old President! I would like to start by saying that I am grateful for what I feel in this debate and the discussion is a great deal of agreement. I think it's important. In fact, I would also like to take this opportunity to express a great deal of thanks to the Yazidians, Christians and Kurds who fought against Daish. They have fought an enemy who was not only an enemy in the Middle East, but who also threatened other parts of the world, and they should have respect for that – although a thank-you may not mean much today. I would also like to thank all those who have worked in Sweden, including Amineh Kakabaveh. I think it's amazing that there are people who really stand up at this point, who stand up and say: This is not okay. I am grateful to all those who have demonstrated and have shown in various ways that we do not intend to remain silent when we see what is happening, although we may not be able to do much more than work with the diplomatic forces we have. Since I am a historian, I would like to send with us all a thought about the situation in Germany in 1918 and the situation in Germany in 1945. The fact that it entered Afghanistan, that it went to Iraq twice, that it entered Libya and what is now happening in Syria has enormous similarities with 1918. You can defeat someone militarily, but if you don't have a strategy for peace, it's deadly. What happened in 1945, after the war, was that you went in with the Marshall Plan. They went in and built up. They helped build institutions, and they built up legal systems. All wars tend to end, and when this does, I hope that we, along with many others, will join in making a Marshall plan for the Middle East. We must be involved in giving the people who are suffering today the opportunity for hope and a future.
i-4391c52c89b01e8d-556	Mr. Old President! It goes without saying that we are all deeply affected by what is now happening in north-east Syria; this interpellation debate also shows this. We are deeply concerned and want there to be a change. From the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are closely following developments. We communicate with actors on the ground, and we maintain close contact with the EU and like-minded people. We are taking every opportunity to act in different arenas, and we are having direct talks with representatives of the Turkish Government. Last week I had a meeting with Ilham Ahmed, president of the SDC, the multi-ethnic civilian administration in northeastern Syria. I then expressed my thanks and those of the government for their work in the fight against Daish, and we discussed the situation. The military action must be interrupted. Turkish forces must be withdrawn from Syrian territory and international humanitarian law must be respected. Syria and the whole region need a sustainable peace, and Sweden seems tireless and determined both within the framework of the UN and the EU as well as bilaterally for a political solution and a solution to the humanitarian crisis in Syria. We also defend the ethnic minorities and the ethnic diversity that exist in northeastern Syria. This mosaic is now inevitably threatened by Turkey's military offensive, and that is one of the reasons why we condemn the offensive and demand that it be brought to an end. The UN Security Council must take responsibility for preventing the situation from getting worse. We assume that the Security Council will continue to follow the issue and act together with the EU and like-minded.
