i-c57667ae4cdfab09-12	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Rågsjö for an interesting and really important interpellation. Karin Rågsjö has asked me if I will take measures to ensure that the system of private health insurance is compatible with the Swedish Health Care Act. Karin Rågsjö has also asked me whether I will work to ensure that the large private interests that exist in the area of private health insurance do not undermine the financing of public health care and whether I will work to ensure that health insurance paid by employers is taxed in the normal way. The basic principle of Swedish healthcare is that care should be provided as needed and on equal terms for the entire population. It is the individual's state of health that determines the care effort, never the individual's ability to pay. A patient's ability to pay shall not affect the duration of the waiting period or the basic quality of care within the framework of the fully or partially publicly funded care. Deviations from the objective of good care as needed and on equal terms are not only serious for those patients who feel a concern that they will be wronged. Prolonged and systematic departure from this goal also undermines trust in and confidence in the welfare system. - the importance of demolished health insurance in relation to the common health system has been subject to a limited degree of in-depth analysis or research. Thus, we do not know very much about and if so, how the existence of private health insurance affects public health care, that is to say, whether holders of private health insurance are given priority over those patients who rely on publicly funded care. The government will not accept such a development. As late as April 2017, the government submitted a bill to the Riksdag containing proposals aimed at preventing private insurance patients from passing by in the queue to public-funded care. Unfortunately, there was not a majority in Parliament for the proposals made by the government, and therefore these could not be implemented, which is unfortunate. It is important that patients have confidence in the care and that care is provided as needed and at the right time. For this to be possible, the availability of care needs to be increased and waiting times shortened. Increased access to healthcare needs to permeate all the health reforms that the government prioritises during its term of office. The government's overall accessibility work includes several parts, and the transition to good and close care is part of the work t. During 2019, the Government has decided on several agreements with SKL for increased access to healthcare, including a new and updated queue billion. The Government has recently proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act (1999:1229), and from 1 July 2018, the tax exemption for the benefit of healthcare in Sweden that is not publicly funded has been abolished. This means, for example, that if an employer provides such a benefit, the employee must be taxed on the value of the benefit. The government will monitor developments in this area.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-20	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for its answer. We have a health law based on three principles. The first is the principle of human dignity to be protected – the equal value of all people and the same right regardless of personal characteristics and functions in society. The second is the principle of need and solidarity – that resources should be allocated according to needs. The third is the principle of cost-effectiveness. This is the Health Act which, in short, means the most sick first and equal health. When I call my gynecologist who happens to be private and be in the region, there are two entrances, one for insured and one for uninsured. This is now the case with the private health care providers in Stockholm. Of course, we in the Left Party also reacted when the clinic Hedda Care opened last week. It's completely private with priceless prices. But this is only part of a larger development that we can see with private cancer insurance, private cancer care and so on. This is now happening at a rather rapid pace. We are very concerned about this, because it means that people simply go before the care queue. We can see in today's healthcare that there is a trend towards a mix of publicly funded care and the services provided to the insured by insurance companies. This, of course, may upset confidence. That has been mentioned by the National Council on Medical Ethics. Who can you trust? The business community, insurance companies and health care companies have an increasing impact on health care. Timbro is of course very happy about it. The Swedish business community, Almega, insurance companies, foreign venture capitalists and health care companies now see that through the 73-point programme, which the government has developed together with the Liberals and Centers, there is greater pressure on the pedal for a greater influence on the private business sector. One of the clauses in the 73-point programme is that the individual's freedom of choice is a central part of the Swedish welfare model. There is therefore a need for a variety of actors and good conditions for individually driven welfare activities that facilitate the individual's active choices. Here are the private cancer insurance and so on. We are therefore very concerned about developments. A person with a greater need for care should always be given priority over a person with a smaller need for care. Today, some 660 000 Swedes have private health insurance. So this is not a small question. It is not the insured that we are opposed to, but we are opposed to the system that can allow this. It is a system that allows you to buy services and bypass others, which is happening today – literally every day. The commercials of private insurance companies say that if you have private health insurance, you go ahead; it's the whole thing with private health insurance. We shouldn't have that the american way, and Timbro shouldn't control our welfare, we think in the Left. Madam President, I would like I would like the Government to be a little more precise on the question that I put first: will the Minister take steps to ensure that the system of private health insurance is compatible with the health law that we have?
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-36	Madam President, I would like In fact, I think that not only Karin Rågsjö and myself but many people were quite upset when Hedda Care opened the doors and Camilla Läckberg very proudly told me what one could now offer women who did not think they were receiving adequate care. It is nevertheless positive that there was anger and indignation, so that this not only slips by in our system as something that is natural and that belongs there – but vice versa. I think that this outrage is saying quite a lot about the set-up of our welfare system and for our health care being very basic in Sweden. I will not take too much time to describe the proposal put forward in Parliament last parliamentary term. But Karin Rågsjö is well aware that we put forward a proposal which just meant that public and private health care could not be confused. This proposal did not go through in Parliament, which I very much regret. On the other hand, when it comes to the whole debate on private health insurance, I added in my reply that I really thank Karin Rågsjö for highlighting the issue. I think it is very important that we discuss and very clearly show that health care is something that is the very foundation of the whole confidence in welfare. If health care does not work when you really need it, how can you trust that welfare generally works? Hence my answer when I tried to describe what different efforts we are making to make people feel that they can trust the publicly funded healthcare system. I would like to comment briefly on the orientation of the January Agreement. Karin Rågsjö expressed concern that it could move in the direction of more privately insured health care. I do not see it that way and will not let such proposals through. That is not something that we agree on in any way. The other parties behind the January agreement may speak for themselves. However, as Socialist Minister of Social Affairs, I am definitely not prepared to contribute to proposals that mean that we get more from private health insurance. What opportunities we have to move in a different direction is determined not least by the composition of this House. Although no Moderates are taking part in this debate, I would like to say that I am very concerned that a large party, and so far the leading opposition party in Sweden, to some extent – in various working groups – is opening up more insurance-based solutions for Swedish healthcare. It may be that it is mostly about the President of the Youth League, but I have not heard very many other adult representatives speak against this. In addition, Irene Svenonius in Region Stockholm has opened up for this. She believes that insurance solutions can be an idea that could improve the quality of Swedish healthcare. I certainly do not share this view. I think that we should nurture and continue to develop the model that we have so successfully built up. This gives people security. It's supposed to be an equal health care. The paragraphs and parts of the Health Act that Karin Rågsjö initially quoted are incredibly central, and I will do everything I can to stand up for them.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-43	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Government and I agree relatively on this issue, at least here and right now. There is an enormous amount of capital behind the insurance-driven care that we are talking about. We have seen this happen specifically in Stockholm. There you have links and business links between insurance companies and private health care companies. This is in different ways very costly because a demand culture is created. Patients can get the maximum out of their insurance by getting several statements, that several specialists should look at their health condition and so on. At the same time, private health care providers have an interest in selling as much healthcare as possible. If you are currently ill, unemployed or elderly, it is impossible to take out a private health insurance policy. Instead, the publicly funded care is allowed to take care of the more frail. The others are just snooping past but at the same time getting to know our welfare, but the back way. Publicly funded care must be so good, as the Government says, Madam President. Then we would not have to have degeneratives such as taking out private health insurance or private cancer clinics. Until then, however, we must look at the reality in which we find ourselves. Madam President, I would like As the Government says, there is a party that is pushing this issue and that has opened the door, namely the Moderates. If you look a little closer among the motions that have been written, there are also Swedish democrats who think that this is very good. Although they consider themselves to be the party of the people, it is really the party of the business community. In one country there is a limited range of health care resources and health workers, such as doctors, nurses and nurses, as well as health centres. If a doctor takes care to some extent of patients who have private health insurance, sex becomes longer for the rest of us who do not have such insurance. There's a risk of displacement. Those who argue for health insurance say that there is an incredible benefit in this, because then you can reduce waiting times for everyone else. This is not the case, as has been shown in various studies. There is no impact on this, i.e. that health insurance would relieve the pressure on the rest of the care. Instead, other studies show that total consumption of care is increasing, as can be understood with all those who want extra surveys. For us in the Left, it is absolutely crucial that care is given as needed and not according to the size of the wallet. I think you can see that this has started to slip away in different ways. We are also concerned, Madam President, about the new allies of the government. After all, they represent private opportunities in a completely different way through so-called freedom of choice. It could mean opening the door. We can see now that we are opening the door even further to private initiatives, private funding and so on. It can simply go very fast. Madam President, I would like My second question was whether the Government will work to ensure that the large private interests that exist in the area of private health insurance cannot undermine the financing of public health services. Is there any way to do anything?
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-52	Madam President, I would like I should not devote too much time to the Stockholm Region, but think it is important that the Stockholm representatives themselves take the debate and have the opportunity to defend themselves. But, of course, this is a region which in much is an experiment in the sense that there are many healthcare choices and private actors. I'm not saying they're privately insured. But in Stockholm there is a kind of care choice where you get private actors. What you are equipping for and how to imagine the future I cannot answer, but I can see what is happening. Let me go into Karin Rågsjö's question a little more. I do not think we should nationalise Swedish health care. I do not think that together it would give each individual patient better accessibility and better quality or that the profession would feel that one can influence the business and be involved in developing it in a better way. On the contrary, it is important that we can adapt Swedish healthcare according to the target group and where in the country you are. It looks very different. I am not just thinking of expectations, it is different in terms of distance, possibilities to recruit, collaboration and so on. However, I would like to emphasise one thing. When you talk about private insurance solutions, it's not just because you think you're going to get a better quality. It is also very much about the twist that we have received in the debate and the discussion about Swedish health care, namely that you interpret your own needs. When you make an assessment and feel that you feel bad and need to meet someone from the healthcare profession to get a call, maybe medication or some other form of treatment, it is obviously tough for all of us to face this. We want to ensure that every individual citizen and patient is taken seriously. On the other hand, we have the challenge that the greatest need should go first. This is what concerns me most when it comes to the current health debate. Let me say something about the biggest problem of private health insurance, and I may not be addressing Karin Rågsjö directly, but any listeners. It is the fact that it is not the needs that govern, but it has bought something and ensured that it can benefit from it in different contexts. Taking out such insurance is a story in itself. How much does the premium cost for someone with a family history of illness? What does insurance cost for a child who is prematurely born or for someone who is chronically ill? There are frightening examples from countries that have private insurance. There you can see that people give up certain parts of the insurance because they think that they can take them once they get sick, but then the fee is higher. Perhaps solutions such as private health insurance stand for something that can really be segregated in a health care context and really make those who have the greatest needs cannot afford care but in some way stand their ground. That's not where we're going. I will do my utmost to ensure that we do not get to this extreme and that we do not take any steps on the way there.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-58	Madam President, I would like I'm glad we're almost on the same track. We in the Left are quite concerned about this issue. Karin Svanborg-Svanborg-Sjövall is CEO of the business think tank Timbro. She has said this: in a great recession, we will be forced to very tough priorities, and then the discussion on how welfare is to be financed will get started seriously. So there are a lot of people behind the whole wave of privatisation and the rejections that we have seen, such as Hedda Care, private cancer clinics, child insurance – you name it. After all, these insurance policies also exploit concerns. There will also be shopping for health care, Madam President. As the Government says, a certain group of people shop for health care. If you are particularly worried, this type of insurance can go to a doctor a little more often than you would need. It is worrying that so many with strong capital are behind these considerations. How are we gonna face it? This is a very important question; it is indeed a question of the future. It can go away, specifically if there is a party—that is, the Moderates—that will push this issue in one way or another. I shall skip to the issue of tax conditions. We made a decision that the type of benefit that a private health insurance is should be taxed, but the organisation Svensk Försäkring wrote to the Swedish Tax Agency. The willingness to pay taxes is minimal in this group. You want to remove 40 percent of the tax, and the Tax Agency fixed it immediately after this request. Madam President, I would like Does the Government consider this acceptable? Something happened on the road that had not been thought of.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-66	Madam President, I would like I am not aware of the situation that Karin Rågsjö ended with, so I cannot answer that question here. However, I made an interesting visit to my Norwegian colleague a few weeks ago to discuss Norway's primary care and health care. It is interesting to see how in Norway, where you have a different government, you look at Sweden and you find that you do not want in profit-making private actors because you are worried about what this can lead to. At the same time, there is a fixed medical system and many other interesting things, but one has drawn a line that one is anxious not to cross. I don't mind looking at these examples, but I think Karin Rågsjö and I agree that political majorities are needed for such major changes. Let me conclude by saying how important it is to live as you learn. In the face of this interpellation debate, the issue of private health insurance has been given a certain circulation in social media. There are certainly also some people listening to this debate who believe that politicians have their own assurances and live their own lives. I really want to take this opportunity to say that this is not the case. Whether you are a minister or a Member of Parliament, you go to the same health centres as everyone else. You go to the same dentist, you go to the same mammography, you do the same cervical screening and so on. I think it is important to establish this, because it is an incredibly important part of confidence in our welfare system that politicians and those who make decisions live as they teach and that one feels that the health care that exists for everyone in this country is for everyone. This is not the case if we look around the world; then we build up health care systems while those who make decisions themselves resolve things differently. It doesn't inspire confidence. I would really like to emphasise how important it is that we have a fantastic health care system and how important it is for us to talk about it ourselves. It is publicly funded as needed, and that is how it should continue to be.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-72	Madam President, I would like Ulla Andersson has asked the Minister for Finance whether the Minister will ensure that resources for health care and the regions are significantly increased in the spring change budget. The interpellation has been handed over to me. I agree with the interpellant that the economic situation in health care in many parts of the country is tough, but I strongly oppose the claim that health care should not be given priority by the government. In recent years, government contributions to welfare have been historically high. The level of general government grants to municipalities and regions was increased by SEK 10 billion in 2017 and has since then been further increased. The Government's budget proposal for 2020 proposes general contributions to the local government sector of SEK 5 billion in 2020. Of these, SEK 11⁄2 billion is allocated to support the development of healthcare with a focus on primary care. As early as 2019, the Government allocated SEK 11⁄2 billion for the same purpose, which means that a total of SEK 3 billion is allocated to the regions in the budget proposal for 2020 to support the development of health care with a focus on primary care. As head of health care, each region and municipality has a great responsibility to offer its residents good and safe care. In order to finance health care, the regions and municipalities have a constitutional right to levy taxes. In this context, I would like to mention that Parliament recently agreed to the Government's proposal on changes to the cost compensation system. The changes will create more equal economic conditions for regions and municipalities to provide good and equal care. The legislative amendments will take effect on 1 January 2020. The Government supports the development of health care in several ways. During 2019, the Government allocated SEK 11 1⁄2 billion to strengthen primary care, psychiatry, maternity care and cancer care, as well as to improve accessibility through an updated queue billion. So there is no doubt that health care is one of the government's top priorities. The right skills are a basic prerequisite for the proper functioning of healthcare. The government supports long-term skills provision in health care. Of the funds that the government provided to the regions in 2019, SEK 2.8 billion can be used to maintain and attract staff. The regions will also receive SEK 400 million in 2019 for more nurses to be given the opportunity to receive paid further education. The Government has also decided to establish a National Council for Health Care Competences to identify, coordinate and streamline the provision of competence for healthcare personnel. Furthermore, in 2015, the Government launched an extension of several health care programmes in the university, which means that universities and higher education institutions have been provided with resources for more training places in nursing and specialist nursing education and midwifery training. Since 2018, there has also been an extension of medical education. Despite the government's efforts, many challenges remain in health care. I will continue to press ahead with the work that the government has started on better care with shorter waiting times. Together, this is an important step towards a safer healthcare system that benefits all patients.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-80	Madam President, I would like Will the Minister of Finance ensure that resources for health care and the regions are significantly increased in the spring change budget? I asked the Minister for Finance. The intervention is very clear to the Minister for Finance, because it is the Minister for Finance who is ultimately responsible for budgetary matters and the intervention is clearly about that. Of course, I have nothing against the Minister for Social Affairs, but the Minister for Social Affairs is having a very difficult time answering questions about the budget. This is quite obvious and clear. I do not know why this is being referred to, but I would like to criticise it. This is the second time that questions addressed to the Minister for Finance are instead attributed to the responsible minister in different sectors. Madam President, I would like I put this interpellation on the grounds that there is a great deal of concern about the cuts that are being made in the social services of municipalities, in schools, in care for the elderly and in health care. These are cuts that have major consequences. The Health Care Association announces that savings packages are waiting in health care in 17 of 21 regions. Sweden's Municipalities and Regions announce that 18 out of 20 regions have deficits in health care. Nine regions report that the number of employees will decrease next year, and this in times when, due to working conditions and working conditions, the number of employees would need to increase, as the population increases and as the elderly increase, and many will have extensive healthcare needs. What would be needed is a large contribution from the state to the regions. What would be needed is a clear signal from the government that large contributions are coming, and that is already in the amending budget. This would be necessary to prevent the planned cuts, because they really need to be stopped. Kronoberg, Västernorrland and Dalarna say that accessibility may be affected by the savings there. Kronoberg and Västernorrland say that the work environment of the staff can also be affected. Uppsala has saved SEK 180 million this year but still goes with SEK 140 million in deficit. Care places are closed due to staff shortages, and 135 nurses are missing. In Gävle, where I live, a quarter of the medical emergency care places at Gävle Hospital are closed because there are only six nurses when 22 are needed. I could go on like this, because this is what it looks like. Health care is extremely strained, partly because of the staff shortage, which is very acute. As I said, that's when a big effort is needed on the staff. What the Government is doing here is rumbling up a lot of reforms and state subsidies which, above all, the Left Party has negotiated until the last parliamentary term, the 10 welfare billions, efforts on maternity care, primary care, staff efforts and other reforms that the Left Party has been behind. The 1 1⁄2 billion referred to by the Government was already included in the M- and KD-budget, and the regions have already included them. Back in Gävleborg it would mean about 50 million next year. It's a 600 million-dollar hole. When the Government mentions these state subsidies, it is not an answer to my questions. My questions are about next year and what the government intends to do to prevent these cuts. I am waiting for an answer, although I understand that the Council of State here really cannot give it. But since the interpellation has been distributed to her, I still expect an answer. Will there be any money next year, if so, how much?
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-92	Madam President, I would like There are a few different reasons why I answer the questions, and one is that it is quite often a health debate. It is clear that it is a question of how we should ensure that competence is sufficient. It is not only a question of resources that are lacking when you do not have enough staff, for example, or a primary care reform that deals both with past efforts to reduce the costs of specialised care in the long term and with preventive work, which is also incredibly important and which cannot be taken out this year or next year. If we do not succeed in preventive work, not only the needs but also the costs of medicines, for example, will increase. There's another reason I got the interpellation. I think Ulla Andersson is aware that even if the Minister of Finance had been here in an interpellation debate, before the budget for 2020 is clubbed, she would not have told Ulla Andersson how the thoughts are about our amending budget and the next budget. But it is clear – it has even been clear to Stefan Löfven – that welfare is a very high priority. For us, it takes precedence over other bets. But just like when Ulla Andersson and the Left Party were present during the last parliamentary term, it is always a matter of taking and giving. It was not so difficult to work together in terms of resources for health care, care for the elderly and social services. But it is always a matter of prioritising even then. The tough times in municipalities and regions do not go by the state, which is important to emphasise, so it will be important to stand up for the priorities for welfare in the future. The Welfare Commission is a work that is also important to put into effect and start working with in order to figure out in the long term not only what the deficits will be and to think about who will cover any deficits, but also how to reduce costs and think about how to secure well-being in the long term. Therefore, I mention the cost compensation system because it matters. Some region has been strengthened – I think it was Jämtland – but they did not use the money for more care but to improve their liquidity. That question is debated and discussed in Jämtland, I guess. But it was of course a supplement that was important and that I had imagined would go to strengthening health care conditions. It is clear that the efforts made over the past few years will continue. Although municipalities think that the 5 billion annually to municipalities and regions are already included, this is a major addition. I am well aware that this will not be enough on the basis of the needs and deficits of more and more regions. This is an issue that we are really going to have to follow, and that includes myself as well as the Minister for Finance and the rest of the government.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-98	Madam President, I would like Of course, there's a shortage of staff in health care. But if you do not invest in existing employees and improve their working conditions, it will be more difficult for them to get more colleagues, better schedules, better working environment and higher wages. Fewer then go to medical care. The cuts I mentioned in my previous speech are now taking place with the budget for which the Government is responsible. There are 43 billion missing until 2023," says the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. The government has calculated that there will be a loss of 90 billion to welfare in 2026. In this situation, the Social Democrats choose to give priority to tax cuts before health care. In the budget referred to by the Government, 6 billion are being spent on removing the military tax, that is to say, a large tax cut for wealthy men in metropolitan areas, while health care receives 11⁄2 billion. 21 regions will share 11⁄2 billion. I said that for Gävleborg it's 50 million – there's a lack of 600 million – while wealthy men get 6 billion. I think that the priority of the Social Democrats is very clear. Tax cuts have been given priority over welfare. I deeply regret it and believe that a great many regret it. I would like to ask the Government a question. There are so many evidences that show that the situation in Swedish healthcare is very serious. For example, a survey was conducted among 1,000 nurses. Two thirds of nurses believe that developments in health care are going the wrong way. That human resources policy is poor and the workload is too high is the main reason for thinking so. Swedish healthcare therefore has serious problems that must be resolved now. Much of the answer to that is precisely increased resources. That's what it takes. It is not reasonable to save at the cancer center in Umeå, where all patients with serious cancer diseases in Norrland are referred, or that in Region Skåne you should save almost 600 million, half of which by reducing the staff. Nor is it reasonable for Västerbotten to make savings equal to 200 employees or for Kronoberg to put savings packages on savings packages. There are huge savings rolling forward that you can prevent if you take political responsibility, if you leave tax cuts and give priority to health care the next time you present a budget. But then there must already be a signal that money will come and how much money it will be to prevent these cuts, because this is serious and will have major consequences. And it is the responsibility of the Social Democracy to prevent this from happening. Then you cannot add 6 billion to wealthy men in Danderyd, Djursholm, Lidingö and Ekerö. It won't hold. Swedish health care needs money, not wealthy men in Danderyd.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-104	Madam President, I would like I think it might be appropriate in times like these to remind a little bit about 21 January 2019. Then Sweden finally got a government after almost five months with a transitional government, a time that feels quite distant. The political memory nowadays is quite short. Then we sat and negotiated – many parties were involved – and the President had cookies. Above all, there were very many serious discussions about how Sweden would get out of a situation that at first appeared insoluble. There were a number of options on the table. We Social Democrats really wanted to avoid a right-wing conservative government, perhaps the most right-wing conservative that Sweden had seen in modern times, with Moderates and Christian Democrats supported by Swedish democrats. What do you do? Well, then you should negotiate with other parties to bring together a possible constellation that allows a state's minister and government to take office and the country can be ruled. What kind of message was there for the various parties? The removal of defence taxes would have been at the very bottom of the proposals, had I been able to rank them. It is absolutely not on a wish list at all. But Ulla Andersson knows very well that even if the Center Party and the Liberals had chosen to join Moderates and Christian Democrats, it would have been abolished. Then the question was: should we not get a government together and let M and KD with the support of SD and perhaps C and L instead form a government and get even more tax cuts? I think it would have been extremely unfortunate, but it is part of the deal that we would not have chosen if we had been able to decide entirely for ourselves. We can't. We can certainly also discuss other tax reductions that have been made and the fact that the employment tax deductions 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, not to mention what Mr M and Mr KD put into the budget that went through before last Christmas and with which we still rule, took another 20 billion. This has made pensioners pay higher taxes than those who work, and we think that is completely unreasonable. I know that Ulla Andersson agrees with me that it is unreasonable for those who have worked a whole life to be taxed more heavily than those who have a salary income. Removing this pensioner tax is also a great expense, but it is a fair issue. This gives pensioners the opportunity to have a better economy. It is an election promise that it has been important for the Social Democrats to honour. The picture that Ulla Andersson gives of 1 1⁄2 billion to the health care system is a bit skewed. The state, government and Swedish municipalities and Regions have signed an agreement of SEK 11 1⁄2 billion, which is quite a lot of money. It is money that definitely goes to health care, including the necessary development of it. We should not advance our joy, but we have seen some reduction in queues in recent months. Let us hope that this continues. I don't think the cue billion is the only factor, but I think it contributes. In the agreement between the State, the Government and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, the general state grants obviously play a role, and we Social Democrats have been clear that we should continue with these. But in order to be able to cope with development and change work around the country for a more equal health care, the agreement of SEK 11 1⁄2 billion plays a role, and it is more than 50 million to Gävleborg.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-114	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats went to welfare elections before tax cuts but prioritise tax cuts. There are 13 billion net tax cuts in the budget bill for 2020 and 11⁄2 billion in general government contributions to health care. These are the priorities of the Social Democracy. The choice you claim to have made last autumn, Lena Hallengren, you made in 2012 when Stefan Löfven took office as president of the Social Democrats. He was already clear at the time that he wanted to cooperate with the Center and Liberals and has since driven this line. You have very well known what policy you would have and that tax cuts would be in the budget you would eventually be presenting. And that's what happened. In the new cooperation, you have had two amending budgets on you to allocate resources to health care, but you have chosen not to do so. In the budget proposal for 2020, you would have been able to add large amounts of resources that would have been necessary to get staff to stay, to open up health places and to have more employees in health care. You chose not to, which is serious. I asked the Minister for Finance, but here is the Minister for Social Affairs, if there is any extra money in the amending budget to prevent the major cuts that are now to be made. The answer so far is nonexistent. You talk about what was done last parliamentary term. Many of these reforms, as I said, were the largest resource addition in history of the Left Party of 10 billion. It's something other than removed military tax for wealthy men in Danderyd. But that is what you Social Democrats chose, and you will have to stand for it.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-120	Madam President, I would like Let me remind Ulla Andersson that the constellation in this House has changed since 2014 when social democrats, environmentalists and left-wing parties made budgets together. I am proud of all the budgets we made both in opposition and in the majority for a good many years. Now the majority conditions are different. We could have ignored it and sat on our hands and found that the budget would be neither good nor sufficiently social democratic. Then we could have stood here in joint opposition, and M, KD and SD, perhaps together with the Center and Liberals, could have ruled the country. Then it would not have been enough by 13 billion in tax cuts, but it would have been more than that. Of course, job tax deduction number 6 for 20 billion would not have been the last, but they would have rolled on every year that went on. In conclusion, let me correct Ulla Andersson and say that the Social Democrats went to elections both on the strengthening of welfare and on the protection of acquired rights and freedoms. People should have the right to feel safe in Sweden. No matter what background or gender you have, you should feel that you belong in this country. The Social Democrats think that the Swedish Democrats are a party that does not stand up for this. We have promised not to negotiate with them, and we neither do nor will. It is also one of the reasons for the government's cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals. It is about standing up for a society that has evolved for many decades into a society that stands up for freedom and rights and for equality and equality. It will take a great deal of collective strength in the future for us to maintain this. We will continue to present budgets which, of course, safeguard and develop welfare. However, no matter how many times Ulla Andersson asks the question in an interpellation debate, she will not receive any advance rulings on next year's budget.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-125	Madam President, I would like Karin Rågsjö has asked me how the regions in a shrinking economy can deliver healthcare that is patient-proof, how the regions can maintain and employ more people in the healthcare sector and what I think about the regions' ability to increase the necessary digitalisation in a shrinking economy. Karin Rågsjö has identified several important issues. The Government monitors developments closely through, for example, dialogues with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, SKR, and in contacts with individual regions. The regions have a statutory responsibility for ensuring that healthcare is conducted in such a way that the requirement for good care is met and that the necessary resources are available. In order to support the regions, the Government has allocated SEK 11 1⁄2 billion in 2019 for various health care initiatives. The funds can be used, among other things, for the development of close care with a focus on primary care, support for maternity and cancer care, sustainable skills provision and support for work with IT support and processes to reduce unnecessary administration. In Sweden we have a long tradition of active preventive patient safety work. At national level, a number of initiatives and initiatives are currently under way aimed at strengthening patient safety. I would like to emphasise in particular that the National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with coordinating and supporting patient safety work at national level. The Agency is tasked with developing a national action plan for patient safety to be presented in January 2020. Several other national initiatives in health care are linked to the work to improve patient safety. This applies, for example, to the investment in standardised healthcare processes, the action plan for the work against antibiotic resistance and the Government's strategy in the area of mental illness. The availability of well-trained staff is essential for the continued high quality of care. Of SEK 11 1⁄2 billion for 2019, the government has contributed SEK 2.8 billion to the regions that can be used to retain and attract staff based on the needs of the operations. In addition, the regions have received SEK 400 million in 2019 for more nurses to be given the opportunity to receive paid further education. Furthermore, in 2015, the Government launched an extension of several health care programmes in the university, which means that universities and higher education institutions have been provided with resources for more training places in nursing and specialist nursing education and midwifery training. Since 2018, there has also been an extension of medical education. The Government and SK R have agreed on a common vision, Vision e-Health 2025, in order to coordinate the work with digitalisation in healthcare and social services at national level. The goal is for Sweden in 2025 to be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation and e-health. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that in October 2019 the Government added SEK 33.5 million to SKR for efforts aimed at developing and modernising 1177 Vårdguiden. The objective of the development of the 1177 Vårdguiden is, among other things, to give residents greater access to both health promotion support and care with increased self-service while maintaining medical quality. The Government intends to provide additional funding for this in 2020 and 2021. In the budget proposal for 2020, the Government proposes that the regions be allocated an additional SEK 1 1⁄2 billion in 2020 in addition to previous efforts to support the development of healthcare with a focus on primary care. Finally, I would like to say that a strong society requires a strong welfare. For the government, therefore, the needs of welfare always go first.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-136	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer, although I do not believe that it can be applied to reality. Last week I was in Region Norrbotten. There you should cut by 1.1 billion to 2022, and you were quite worried about it. Jämtland is going to remove 180 employees in healthcare, and it does not apply to healthcare professionals there. Sahlgrenska has a cut of 400 million. Psychosis is permanently closed, which among other things affects people with schizophrenia, one of the weakest groups of patients. In Skåne, 590 million are to be cut, and there the reduction requirements are directed towards the staff. I'm worried. We're worried. What I think is extremely strange about these redundancies and notice is that they come at the same time as the recruitment needs in health care are great. In Sweden's municipalities and Regions' forecast, which is at a disadvantage, it is said that 200 000 more are needed in the welfare sector until 2026. If you look at those who are going to retire, you can see that 408 000 people need to be recruited. Sounds like a lot. At the same time, we can be glad that we have got refugees here. The number of older people aged over 80 is estimated to double by 2028. Even if they are healthy – healthier than before – they need care, both care for the elderly and health care. It will be difficult to face this with cuts, I think. Madam President, I would like We have high costs today for the effective medicines available in cancer care. How can regions meet the needs of advanced cancer care? It is this kind of question that I ask myself and that makes me quite worried. It might have been possible to expect a slightly different approach to the budget. I think patients will be affected. It is not only we in the Left Party who believe it, but also the profession who says that there is concern about patient safety, which is threatened in certain areas. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister once again, as I did in my written question: how will the regions of an economy that is shrinking so clearly be able to provide health care that is patient-safe? I still ask myself this question.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-145	Madam President, I would like It is right and proper that the state should provide support to the regions and also have a responsibility for the equivalence of healthcare, through increased state subsidies and better cost equalisation. There, I welcome the fact that, among others, the Left Party voted in favour of the proposal put forward by the government, which was heard here in Parliament. This means that municipalities and regions that are better placed to contribute a little more. This is an important principle, and for some municipalities and regions it will make an impression. It will be a little – you should choose your words right in Parliament's Chamber, because they are recorded in the Minutes – remarkable situation if every time we discuss it is said that it is by definition the state's fault that a municipality or region has a deficit. We don't have government health care or care for the elderly. However, it is clear that we should help each other. We do this through increased general state subsidies, through various agreements and by improving educational conditions. We should be honest and say that in some parts of the country, welfare is not only threatened by a shortage of resources. On the contrary, even if you have resources, you can search well for staff with the right skills for a long time, and then you may not find anyone. I'm going to float out a little bit and go into what Karin Rågsjö talked about in her speech, namely elderly care. When more and more people in a municipality are getting older and need care for the elderly, and fewer and fewer people are going to finance it, it is a big problem. I am not saying challenge, because it sounds too positive in this context. I am concerned about how this will happen. It is not so simple that you can only inject resources, but it is really much harder than that. As regards the various parts of the country where staff were laid off, Karin Rågsjö jumped across the Stockholm region, I noted. It is the region where we have the healthiest population and the highest growth. Yet there is a great premonition. This means that it is not as easy to read the developments that are going on. I have commented on it before, but I can say it again: health care needs more staff. Above all, you need to protect, nurture, appreciate and encourage the staff you have so that they continue to work and give amazing testimony when it comes to getting others to choose the fantastic profession that care is. Regions must take responsibility for their economy. In Stockholm there will be a discussion that in some way becomes unprecedented. There you have a billion roll at one end, and so you say you have to take the consequence of this in the other. It is easy to slip into different interpellation debates when they are a bit similar and come after each other, but without a doubt it is a fact that municipalities, regions and the state go into tougher times. It is clear that we must make the right priority, and we must give priority to welfare. We did this during the last parliamentary term, and we do so during that term. We will prioritise both welfare and welfare supplements. It is an important part, but we also need to work together on skills provision in a much better way to ensure that the specialist knowledge needed is shared by everyone. Care skills advice is an important part of developing knowledge support and much more. We're setting up an investigation to review hospital investment. It is interesting that large hospital investments are made in times of tight economics and current deficits. What are the long-term consequences of this, with increased operating costs? There are many different perspectives on this, and it is not easy to come up with solutions. We'll all have to think about and contribute to this over time.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-152	Madam President, I would like We would probably have preferred to have seen much greater investment in staff than in, for example, the military tax. I'll get back to that. All parties except the Left Party look forward to the queue billions. The professor is also not looking forward to them, because if you try to solve the problems of care with queue billions, it means that the staff will have to run even faster. I don't believe in that bet. Madam President, I would like I believe that there is a need for investment in human resources and an improvement in the working environment. This is A and O to get more people to want to work in health care. It is about good pay, good working conditions, power at work, participation, research and shortened working hours. All this demands the profession. Instead of a more expansive approach to health care from the state, we now see, for example, closed care places and lack of investment in robust primary care, better addiction care, etc. There's so much we need to build together. Stockholm is a matter for itself, I have to say. The ruling politicians of the Moderates, Liberals, Centers, KD and MP have announced 1,200 employees. Stockholm is a very special corner. This is an experiment that goes on over staff and patients. This is clear. Here money has been wasted on New Karolinska, consultants, strange business and strange care. Billions have been wasted on private companies, etc. Several books have been written about this, and there will probably be more. Now there is a lot of talk about the transition within healthcare, from the large hospitals to primary care, throughout Sweden. We are all keen on this. But it will be completely wrong to say that this change should be made now that the money is missing in the system, when primary care and close proximity will not be able to receive elderly people who are multisick. I am extremely concerned about the people who are working hard in health care. They get to run even faster and have fewer workmates. This is happening throughout Sweden, and it can be exploited in different ways by the right wing and Timbro, who can say: Wouldn't it be better to privatise or bring in private health insurance? These discussions are going on everywhere. Madam President, I would like I have to ask again: how does the Minister mean that regions should be able to retain and employ more people in the health sector with these cuts? It is clear that the priority of the budget presented by the government together with the Centers and Liberals is to benefit specifically men in Danderyd, Långedrag or wherever they live – the absolutely richest. Nevertheless, it is 6 billion that could have been worked into welfare in a different way. I think this is a betrayal, against health professionals, against patients and against those people in Sweden who will not benefit from the abolition of the military tax.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-160	Madam President, I would like I never expect Moderates, Christian Democrats or Swedish Democrats to help clarify something in the debate on the budget, what happened a year ago and how 20 billion disappeared in another job tax deduction. There are 20 billion people who could have played a very important role, not least in welfare. I'm really sorry about that. They were very anxious. It is clear to me that this is a policy that would have been pursued if only it had been possible. The fact that they would not be allowed to continue felt important to us Social Democrats. That is why we agreed with the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party in government that we would offer an alternative. We do this because we see that we have values in Sweden to be protected and developed. Then you have to pay a price for it. But you also get a lot. I would like to emphasise once again that if one believes that the removal of military tax had been avoided by any other constellation, it is quite wrong. It would have been an offer from the others as well. If I had to decide for myself – and I have to decide as little for myself as Karin Rågsjö can decide everything for herself – we would of course not have taken away the 6 billion. However, even though I realise that the Left Party will do so for four years, it cannot be said in all the debates that 6 billion in arrears would solve the whole welfare problem. It's gonna be a little unserious. We will help each other to describe what is the real threat. It is that we continue with gigantic tax cuts that M, KD and SD do not long for anything but to do. They would be happy to have job tax deductions 7, 8 and 9. So many of them would be able to make it during their term of office if they had the chance. In addition, they would be happy to have market experiments in health care. For them, having private health insurance is no fear. It is something you open up to, especially in moderate places. It is not that this is something that the party leader has gone out saying that they love and that it will be a moderate exercise. But believe me, the question comes sneaky. We'll be on our guard. That's the real threat. Then we have a tough situation in municipalities and regions. There is no doubt about that. However, it cannot be said that if the state had not removed the military tax of 6 billion, we would not have had any problems. Then the state, read the government, would compensate all municipalities and regions for the poor economy. We must help each other, even though the state is having a tough time. That is why I say once again: we will give priority to welfare in future budgets. We have also made provision for resources during the last term of office and during this term of office. It matters with 11 1⁄2 billion in government agreements. I believe that agreements should not be underestimated in the years to come. Despite tough times, you will have to manage to develop care. It is about taking in digitalisation, increasing accessibility and finding new methods. I have one minute of my speaking time left. I'll take the opportunity to put out the words a little bit, just to give an example of how important it can be to increase knowledge. I visited a pelvic floor reception in Södertälje, where the entire team is trained to gain better knowledge of the birth situation. This reduces the number of stretch marks and the number that gives birth with a suction watch. This makes sure that you need less care and get fewer people who need aftercare and different types of surgery. This is not achieved with more staff, but with the same staff who get better opportunities. I just want to send it. It is, of course, important that we have enough colleagues. But it's also about constantly working with new knowledge to develop opportunities and ensure that patient safety is constantly improved.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-171	Madam President, I would like Like the Government, I am very pleased that the birth money we negotiated has worked, that new techniques have been found and so on. When it comes to tips on how to raise the tax, you can use Ulla Andersson. She's got a lot of tips on that. There is much talk of digitalisation in health care. It's super important. It is also a question of efficiency in health care, is it not? It should make it easier for both patients and employees. Digitization costs. Swedish Municipalities and County Councils have been working on the issue. Unfortunately, however, they have moved around in their own 21 regions instead of investing in common functionality. Maybe it hasn't been very successful. Now we hope that digitalisation spreads throughout Sweden. All these online doctors, whom I have named Dr Cash, have a clear advantage over the regions, because digitalisation costs. There's no talk about it. We would have needed more funds, more money, for digitalisation in the regions. If you go around Sweden you realize that digitalisation is very different. Now there has been a bet of 1177. But that is not enough, we believe. More effort is needed to get it on the roll. There are amazing examples. They are located in sparsely populated regions. For example Norrbotten, Västerbotten and so on have come a bit along the way. But it needs to be spread in a completely different way. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I do not believe that the funds that have come from the government will be sufficient. What happens in a shrinking economy with digitalisation? I would like an answer to that from the Minister.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-176	Madam President, I would like I'll make a very brief comment about the possibility of raising taxes. It is important that the Left Party sees that the Riksdag has a different composition. It is a question of presenting budgets that gain support in this House. It's not an unimportant insight. Another thing that Karin Rågsjö asked a question about in a previous speech I did not have time to answer. Karin Rågsjö asked: Is it really the right time to switch from hospital care to primary care when money cannot be added to the system? I think it is really the right time to understand that we cannot just increase hospitalization. We must ensure that home health care is strengthened and that it is possible not to have to go to hospital. When we have an ageing population, this becomes even more important. We know that elderly people often turn to hospitals and emergency care even though they would not need it. As a result, they are allowed to sit in an emergency room and not really be cared for. Even when they are cared for, however, they are not certain to receive the care they need. All different forms of collaboration between home care, primary care and inpatient care are very important when we move towards a situation where more people are getting older and would not need hospital treatment. I would also like to say something about 1177. It is an example of how digitalisation can be used. We should not do as we have done in the past that each one develops its own model. 1177 is a portal that I think everyone has contacted at some point. You googled or called. The opportunity to do this and then be passed on without having to hang up the phone and call a new number, I think, will play a very big role. You simply turn to 1177, are referred to self-care and may have to book an appointment at your health centre or get in touch with a digital care operator. It will play a role in developing this together. To this end, the government has granted resources and will continue to do so over the next two years. It is a service that will develop much more than we see today.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-184	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me if I see the problems of the Swedish local government sector and what I intend to do in concrete terms to enable the municipalities to deal with the financial problems. I see that the economic situation is strained in many municipalities and regions. After good years as a result of a strong economy with high tax revenues, a slowdown in the economy is now waiting. The need to strengthen the conditions for the municipal sector to handle the welfare mission is therefore great. The government prioritises so that more resources go to the welfare of the coming years while it is important that the existing funds are used effectively. During the last term of office, the government contributed a great deal to the welfare. For example, in 2017 there was a historically large permanent increase in the level of general government grants. During this term of office, the government will continue to strengthen general contributions to municipalities and regions at a steady pace. In the state budgets of the coming years, any increase in expenditure needs to be tested against more resources for well-being and security. But financial contributions are not the only solution. I see that a combination of measures is needed to safeguard and strengthen welfare. The State and the municipalities have a common responsibility in this. The municipal sector needs to continue to streamline its operations and develop them according to new conditions, within the framework of the municipal self-government. I know that the local government sector is used to redeploying its activities after demography and changing conditions, and that this is something that is being done on an ongoing basis. In addition, municipalities need to continue their efforts to adapt and develop their operations in order to meet the demand for a sustainable economy. At the same time, the state must provide good conditions for the transition process. The cost equalisation and the municipal economic equalisation system as a whole are an important part of this. An up-to-date and reinforced cost adjustment that is in line with social development and to a greater extent compensates for sparseness and socio-economics is important to create a level economic environment. In addition, the government has carried out a series of reforms to enable new arrivals who are granted a residence permit to quickly enter our country, stand on their own feet and learn Swedish. New arrivals are establishing themselves at a faster pace in the labour market. To continue facilitating the entry of newcomers into the labour market is important t. The government will ensure stable financing of welfare. The main source of income for the local government sector is tax revenue, which makes investment in jobs and employment a very important component for safeguarding well-being. The increasing demand for municipal welfare services needs to be met in a cost-effective way through, among other things, new and improved working methods as well as innovative use of technology and digital services. With strong public finances, Sweden is well equipped to meet future challenges. The government intends to continue to pursue policies that strengthen welfare and therefore closely monitor the development of the economy in the local government sector.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-193	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lena Micko, for the answer! However, I must begin by questioning the statement in the Minister's reply that new arrivals are establishing themselves at a faster pace in the labour market. In fact, it is misleading to say this. According to a report I myself have requested from the Parliamentary Investigation Service, after two years in the establishment reform, only 6% of new arrivals are in a job without support. 94% don't. The whole improvement that is visible for foreign born in the statistics is due to the fact that the government counts people in extra services as permanent employees with a real job, which is not the case, as is known. The additional services are a tax-financed labour market measure to more than 100%, and not a real job. If you exclude extra services, it is even so that the establishment of new arrivals has become worse, despite the boom. But, Madam President, now to the main issue: the strained economy of the local government sector. Larmen from the Swedish local government and regional sector is coming in a fierce stream, despite many years of boom with good tax revenues. The reasons are several: demographic changes with a higher proportion of older people and children, a sharp increase in the costs of receiving new arrivals and a government that does not fully manage the state's commitments, but turns the responsibility over to the municipalities. This applies, for example, to security, migration, employment services, adult education and infrastructure. In addition, the state's own authorities, such as county administrative boards, often oppose municipalities in matters such as construction and beach protection. The same applies to the Finnish Transport Agency, which makes it difficult to build rural areas by imposing unreasonable restrictions on exits, requirements for walking and cycling routes, and a lot of other things. Municipalities often feel that they are receiving more and more tasks and less and less support from the state. While the new cost compensation system helps some municipalities to obtain slightly more resources, it also reduces the number of other municipalities. Just redistributing costs between municipalities does not solve long-term problems. The Moderates of course welcome the fact that some municipalities receive increased resources thanks to the new cost compensation system, but at the same time we would like to see a change so that no municipality at the same time receives reduced resources. And then more money is needed in the system – money that we Moderates have put into our budget. Unfortunately, the JÖK parties' budget focuses on quite different things than the municipalities and welfare. The Social Democrats talk a lot about the need for more money for the municipalities, but their policies have other priorities. In the so-called JÖK budget, the municipal sector had to stand back. We Moderates do the opposite and add the local government sector 50% more in new money than the government does in the budget for 2020. In addition, we are converting significant parts of the targeted state grants into general grants, which increases the local authority's room for manoeuvre. We Moderates streamline and close down authorities. We are adjusting aid downwards towards the UN's recommended objectives. We say no to pointless building subsidies, inefficient climate policy, extra services, holidays, family week and electric bicycle premiums. We are tightening up migration and integration policies, we are introducing premium ceilings and qualification for new arrivals in benefit systems and we are introducing conditions in the supply support. We also abolish interest deductions for SMS loans and credit card credits. All of this gives us room to invest much more in welfare and the municipalities, the police and the judiciary. This allows us to reduce taxes on both wage earners and pensioners, to reduce fuel taxes by SEK 1 per litre and, at the same time, to have more surpluses in public finances than the government and support parties. With our moderate policy there will be more money for the welfare and the municipalities. With the policies of the Social Democrats, municipalities and county councils can stand back. Madam President, I would like Lena Micko says many beautiful things in her interpellation response, but unfortunately politics does not live up to this. I would therefore like to ask Lena Micko again how she believes that the Social Democrats will be able to add more money to the local government sector when you prioritise completely different things in their budget.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-204	Madam President, I would like The Government forecasts in its budget for 2020 that this term of office will increase by 13.3% while forecasting that the population will increase by 3%. This increase in dependency on benefits not only brings personal suffering to those individuals who are displaced to a life of exclusion, but also greatly increases the costs for municipalities in the form of benefit payments and the loss of tax revenue from non-working people. Municipalities need more tools to break benefit dependency. Grant ceilings, activity requirements for all those living with support and home visits are just a few examples.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-208	Madam President, I would like With regard to the issues of establishment and the question of entering the labour market, and that this is not always going so fast, there is always more to be desired and more to work with. What I am struck by during all my visits to the country's municipalities is that there is an intensive work going on that tries to try different ways. We see that there are experiences to share between municipalities, and the extra services have been a good way to enter the labour market. Labour market policy is a way into the labour market. There are good ways for different employers and municipalities, together, and also with the support of the state, to ensure that this is something that is growing in scope. We in Sweden will have a major problem with the supply of skills for several years. There will be no employees. There will be great competition for the next generation of workers. That is why it matters that we ensure that we have good ways for those who have come to our country and who have the right to stay here to get into the jobs that will be there. The responsibility of the state is to provide the conditions for us to manage well-being in a good way at local and regional level. There are, of course, a number of issues that we need to discuss together with the municipalities about improvements that need to be made in several areas. Nevertheless, I am quite satisfied that we have a work in progress, not least in the forthcoming Welfare Commission. It will work together with the local government sector on how to jointly try to simplify rules, reduce detailed state subsidies and bring about changes there. When it comes to prioritising resources, cost compensation plays a role for many of the smaller municipalities, where sparseness has played a role in what the Riksdag has also supported. At the same time, there is not just one way or one form that will solve all the problems we have. Several different ways of working will be needed. I can therefore stress that not least the priority given to resources for welfare is something that we Social Democrats will be working intensively on so that we get a result with supplements. The conditions and reality today mean that we have an M-KD-SD budget that we work from outside. This is what the Riksdag has supported, and it has meant that a number of millions have disappeared from welfare. Josefin Malmqvist asked about an increase in the number of social security recipients. This is, of course, a serious issue when it comes to reducing the dependency on subsidies. At the same time, several municipalities are actively working to make aid an activity compensation, i.e. a compensation for employment and work. This is something I find interesting to take note of and gain experience of, to see what we, as a state, can do at the same time to support more of this work.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-217	Madam President, I would like I do not doubt for a moment that the municipalities are really doing what they can to make this extra services something good. However, the conditions were quite poor from the beginning, and we can see that there have been extremely weak results. The Minister now reiterates the importance of prioritising. She said in her reply that in the next few years' state budgets, all expenditure increases need to be tested against more resources for welfare and security. Then why don't you do it? After all, you have given priority to things in the budget other than the local government sector. It doesn't make any sense. It goes against the Minister's answer. Then I question the claim that the M-KD budget would have caused a number of billions to disappear from welfare. The truth is that the M-KD budget added more money to welfare. The municipalities got more money in our budget. Very well, Madam President. In 2018, Lena Micko was Chairman of SKL, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, now Sweden's Municipalities and Regions. In an interview in Svenska Dagbladet on April 26, 2018, she, together with the rest of the management of the former SKL, stated that the targeted state grants were a growing problem that is putting sticks in the wheels for renewal. It was also written that the administration of the targeted state grants is so burdensome that a medium-sized municipality needs to employ several people only in order to apply for, follow up and account for the grants. In the article, Lena Micko and others state that Sweden's citizens and Swedish welfare cannot afford to continue with inefficient efforts in the form of targeted state grants. It is said in the article that general state subsidies should be the general rule. Lena Micko was then chairman of the Swedish Municipalities and County Council. Between 2012 and 2018, the targeted state grants increased by 60 per cent, while the general ones decreased slightly, despite the fact that municipalities have demanded the opposite. This is something that we Moderates have taken on board in our budget exercise this year, where, in addition to providing 50% more general money, we are also redistributing targeted state subsidies to a rather large extent. But the government, with Lena Micko as responsible minister, not only continues with a high proportion of targeted state grants but increases in this year's budget share further. It is therefore a larger proportion of state subsidies that are targeted in this budget than in last year's. Then my simple question is: When does Lena Micko intend to implement what she so clearly asked when she was chairman of the Swedish Municipalities and County Council?
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-225	Madam President, I would like Many municipalities struggle hard, but they need tools to break the dependency on subsidies. I note that the Minister for Civil Affairs does not answer my question why the government does not provide the municipalities with tools to break the exclusion. During my time as municipal councillor in Sundbyberg, we reduced the dependency rate by an average of 17 percent per year, compared with 2 percent per year in the kingdom during the same time. It shows that local politics makes a difference. But the municipalities need more tools. I would also like to postpone a new question. As my colleague, Jan Ericson, mentioned, a majority of the new arrivals who leave the establishment are not going to unsubsidised work. There's still a very small percentage that does. This means that the state will therefore pass on costs for its own failed integration policy to the municipalities without giving the municipalities the tools or conditions to deal with this. The Moderates believe that municipalities should be given greater responsibility for managing integration. We should have closer cooperation. I have noted that the government is not behind this. We also believe that municipalities need to be given financial opportunities to deal with this. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Civil Affairs: why is the government opposed to the municipalities being given the opportunity to clean up after the government's failed integration policy?
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-229	Madam President, I would like It is a little strange that the Moderates would suddenly be the best friend of the municipalities. It is nothing that I have seen in all the years that I have been the municipal councillor and chairman of Linköping, or chairman of the Swedish municipalities and county councils, on the contrary. It is good if you now start to wake up and think that resources are important. At the same time, we have seen cuts and reductions in taxes over the years. It has not contributed any more money to the local government sector. There is much more to be done – absolutely! I can certainly guarantee that the most important task of the Social Democracy in terms of resources will be to ensure that we have a strong welfare and more resources for security at all. Then, of course, in budgetary negotiations, there will be discussion of how much is involved. We will come back to that. However, I am confident that this is a priority for us. We've done a lot. We have contributed a great deal. It will not be enough for the resource addition that is being desired today. At the same time, when we add more resources, we need to have our own work started in the municipalities around what they should do – hence the joint work. Not least with regard to the targeted state subsidies, which Jan Ericson refers to, it will be important for us to see in concrete terms the changes that are now taking place. It is intensive work that is now under way, both at the Ministry of Education and at the Ministry of Social Affairs, where it will also be clear how this will continue to support municipalities and regions in a good way. It is a good work that is underway, and although there is good governance in many areas, I am convinced that we will see better and not so detailed government governance. My hope is that we will soon be able to see results in this area. Then, speaking of the extra services, I have to say that the municipalities and regions of Sweden, regardless of political leadership, have described it as and have also been able to show that these have produced a successful result when it comes to entering the labour market. To Josefin Malmqvist, I would like to say that the efforts made to reduce the dependency on benefits – it is a work that takes place in many municipalities, and there are many successful examples of that – is, of course, something that we should support. I can't see any contradiction in that. If additional tools are needed, we will of course discuss it. Basically, however, it will be about us seeing together with municipalities and regions what we can be helped with, where the state needs to provide better conditions and what the municipalities have to learn from each other. I believe, for example, that digitalisation will have to take off more quickly than is the case today.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-236	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Civil Affairs here coines the expression that the Moderates are demonstrably the best friend of the municipalities. She didn't say, but it's actually like that.
i-a5dc1acbc4e0420e-0	She wouldn't say that. ) In fact, in the alliance years, despite the financial crisis and recession, there was a balance between local government revenues and costs. These are SKL's own numbers. Since the change of power in 2014, however, imbalances are growing – in a boom. I think it says most of it. Madam President, I would like I note that there are four things required by the state in order for municipalities to have a reasonable long-term chance of managing their finances. Firstly, the state must take responsibility for its basic tasks. These range from asylum reception to employment services, security issues and infrastructure. Unfortunately, today's government does not take on this responsibility, but is rolling over costs to the municipalities. Secondly, state subsidies to municipalities need to be increased. Unfortunately, the government's priorities are different. The Moderates invest 50 per cent more in increased government grants in the coming years than the government base. Thirdly, as has been said, the targeted state subsidies need to be made more general. Unfortunately, the government does the opposite. Fourthly, it is absolutely crucial for municipalities that all parts of our country have a strong business and that more people get to work in real jobs. A strong industrial policy, reasonable taxes on entrepreneurship, good access to electricity, a secure welfare and a strong judiciary are important elements in this. Unfortunately, today's government has failed on almost all of these points. I can only say that, with her background, Lena Micko is certainly the best-informed and knowledgeable minister when it comes to the problems of the local government sector and that she really knows what needs to be done. Unfortunately, however, I very much doubt that she will have an impact on this in the government. The budget that Parliament is due to debate next week points in a completely different direction, and I can only regret that. Finally, I would like to invite Lena Micko to our budget debate in the Committee on Finance on the finances of the local government sector next week, on 18 December. It would be welcome to hear the Minister's views on these issues in a slightly longer debate.
i-c57667ae4cdfab09-245	Madam President, I would like It is good and important to discuss the finances of municipalities, and we will certainly come back to that in different contexts. I can begin by saying that in the years that I have been active, and that is very many years, I have not seen that the Moderates have been at the forefront of giving more support to the local government sector. In that case, it's a late awakening if they do it now. I'm glad more people see these needs. It will be about how we will ensure that we have a good cost equalisation now that will work, that the municipalities that have the greatest need also receive supplements and that we stick together our country and ensure that we do not have municipalities that are in the process of social dumping, which we will find out more about in January. We must ensure that our country stays together and that the municipalities cooperate on this. Everyone has a responsibility whether we are talking about new arrivals or about the citizens who already exist in the municipalities. It's extremely important. Welfare needs more resources. Keeping our country together and working together on public services will be extremely important for citizens to get what they actually need. I can conclude by saying that we are working intensively to improve the governance of the state to the municipalities and regions and to ensure that we also reduce detailed state subsidies. We Social Democrats will always put welfare first.
