i-WuBpDdisL4DzRMQF5ALs1J	Madam President, I would like The House today has to deal with the report "Strengthening the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing". I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved. It is a united committee that supports the report. Right here we have no differences, and that is a strength. Nevertheless, it is important to describe the work that Parliament and the Government are doing in this area. The present proposal concerns an EU directive which adds to the existing Fourth Money Laundering Directive to be incorporated into the law of all Member States. The task of the Riksdag and the Government is to design this in the way that works best in Sweden. It is not possible to stress enough the importance of our constant efforts to combat money laundering. Money laundering is a very serious crime. It is criminal in itself, and it is committed to conceal other criminal activities. It is money that has gone through illegal trafficking or corruption and that is divided and placed into various activities or assets. Then, somewhere, a bank accepts that this money, which originates in crime, is placed in an account in that bank – because it is used in new business and placed in other banks, which laundered money. The money is unjust values that someone has usurped because people have been wronged – which hits ordinary workers and their conditions – and by breaking fair rules of the game, which affects companies and entire industries. Money laundering is closely linked to cheating and tax crimes, to activities that harm our economy and undermine our welfare systems. It fosters trust and cohesion. Like other crimes, there is no lack of imagination among criminals in developing their methods. Society must constantly work to access, prosecute and prevent. In recent years, the parliament and government have strengthened and sharpened the policy of combating money laundering. In 2017, a new Money Laundering Act was adopted. The police have appointed a new coordination function, and Finansinspektionen has received SEK 80 million in increased resources to, among other things, strengthen banking supervision and the fight against money laundering. This is all good. The list can be made longer. And now we have to deal with a supplement to the fourth money laundering directive, which will then be the fifth money laundering directive. When the criminals seek new ways, we will stop them. Madam President, I would like The Directive now being translated into a bill is part of an action plan adopted by the European Commission following the disclosures in the Panama documents in April 2016. The Directive aims to improve the regulatory framework for the use of new technical services and risks linked to virtual currencies. More types of companies and actors are now to be considered as operators subject to money laundering legislation, such as currency dealers and art dealers. The Directive will improve cooperation between regulators in the EU. The protection of so-called whistleblowers is strengthened, and higher customer knowledge requirements are imposed to establish a business relationship. These are reasonable sharpenings, and they well exemplify how the regulatory framework needs to be constantly updated. In one respect, the committee wants to go further than the government. It is a question of sanctions. In cases where legal or natural persons do not provide sufficient information on the beneficial ownership, there is currently the possibility of imposing a penalty payment. However, there are concerns when a penalty payment is not effective or sufficient as a sanction. The committee therefore believes that the government should examine the possibility of additional sanctions and return to Parliament. Madam President, I would like To stop crime requires dedicated, thorough and sustained work. Money laundering is no exception. We are now taking further steps in this.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-21	Madam President, I would like The problems of organised crime and gang crime are being debated with full force in Sweden, quite rightly. When children shoot children in Malmö – on my beloved Möllan – no one is left untouched. We should not be unconcerned when something like this happens in Sweden. I'll let the feelings come. The reactions must be powerful. Madam President, I would like I am addressing this incident in a debate on money laundering for a specific reason. The question is what we do with the reactions, the feelings, when we read about the terrible acts of violence that are taking place in the streets. If we then focus our energy on getting the children in themselves, putting the children in prison and taking harder hold of the streets, I think we are not going to end up quite right. I refer to it because I think we need to pay more attention to the greedy and ruthless men who are behind these children. They've tricked the kids and dragged them into crime. No child gets a gun or gets the idea in his head to shoot another child in a vacuum. It happens in an environment where greedy men do terrible things, almost anything, for money. We must realise that it is largely about money. In order for the money obtained through criminal activities to be really useful, they need to be laundered. That is why one of the most important reactions on the part of society is precisely strengthened anti-money laundering measures. These measures rarely end up on evening newspapers' handbills, partly because they are carried out in small steps and are about administration. It may sound sad, Madam President, but it is extremely important measures to keep Sweden together and stand up to the fight against organised crime. It is innovative, active and international, and cooperation between authorities and countries must be the same. That is why the step we are debating today, which is one of a long series of steps that we have taken and will take in the future, is an important part of the fight against organised crime. The Government has previously taken several measures that the Riksdag has decided to strengthen the work against money laundering. The government continues its work, and an investigation was announced recently. The budget also reinforces the funding for Finansinspektionen's and county boards' work against money laundering. I am convinced that Sweden's strength in the fight against organised crime lies with the bureaucrats of our authorities, municipalities and county boards. Good municipal officials and civil servants are our foremost knights in the war that needs to be waged. Here we can access the opportunity to do shady business and make money through crime, and that is one of the most important things we need to do to keep Sweden together in this situation. I support the committee's proposal.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-28	Madam President, I would like Our history is our collective memory and an orientation map of who we are, where we have come from and where we are going. It is our human cultural culture and our imprint and our link to those who have gone before and those who will follow. I would like to start by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report to be approved. I note that the majority of the committees are in favour of the government's intention to actively monitor the progress of security work. I seriously believe that the government has for years chosen to ignore the need for increased resources for Swedish cultural heritage and Swedish museums and that it had to wait for a critical letter from the Swedish National Audit Office to act – and not even then act, stating that it intends to follow developments. For years I have pushed the thesis that the funding for the overall care and maintenance of the cultural heritage field has been substandard and deprived, including the allocation of resources to Sweden's museums and the Central Museums. Today, we can see that the negative allocation of resources has resulted in a number of serious shortcomings, as the Swedish National Audit Office points out. These are shortcomings that cannot, in essence, be attributed to the individual museums' accounts of responsibility, without the government's lack of analytical capacity for cause and effect after years of rigid treatment of cultural heritage. The report we are debating now concludes that the Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that the Central Museums conduct security work that does not adequately guarantee a reasonable degree of security for the objects in the collections. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office considers that the National Antiquarie Office can do more to support the museum's security work within the framework of its museum assignment. The review shows that work varies in quality between and within the central museums and that several deficiencies previously observed persist. ..................................................... On this basis, we can make three important points: Firstly, the security of a significant part of our nation's most unique cultural heritage is unreasonably low. The question then arises: Are we prepared to provide adequate resources for the most vital activities of the museum system, to manage and convey our collective memory through collections in a safe manner and on a scientific and factual basis? Secondly, the National Heritage Office does not do enough to support the security work of museums. The question then arises: why do the government and its co-operation parties consistently reject our proposals for general increases in funding to the National Antiquarie Office during each budget period, which would significantly strengthen the Authority's ability to increase its support efforts? JÖK cooperation, of course, has every opportunity to reconsider for the next budgetary period, and we look forward to that. The dice have been cast. Thirdly, there are still a number of shortcomings that have been observed in the past. The question then arises: Has the government not ensured the state of affairs at the museums during previous government dialogues? Questions about access to the collections, security classification and adequate registration and inventory of objects collections are fundamental in the museum system. But to the government it sounds like this is news, and the majority of the committee accepts that development should be followed. I believe that development and security of resources should be directed towards the most important tasks of museums: collection, management, research and dissemination of collections. This requires increased funding, not only for the Central Museums but also for the other museums in the country. That it is good that the government in its response to the Swedish National Audit Office's letter states that it will raise the issue with the relevant authorities and ensure that the authorities take appropriate measures can probably most sign up to. The fact is, however, that it is a political responsibility to enable museums to take adequate action to an adequate extent. If the government takes the situation seriously, a review of the resource needs should be carried out in order to take appropriate measures and return to the Riksdag with suggestions on how it intends to enable the Central Museums to contribute to secure collective management. The Swedish Democrats have proposed an investigation into a long-term sustainable sponsor system for object donation and a very limited possibility of destruction of objects. We also want the scientific basis to be clarified in the Museum Act. A significant part of the museums' main source of objective and evidence-based information is found from the collections, and thus the collections play an important role as source material, which is vital in our time. They are also important for future research on contemporary conclusions. This perspective is an important basis for taking lack of care, maintenance and safety seriously. Today we see signs of the need for the cultural heritage billion Swedish democrats are budgeting for. We see neglected care, maintenance and safety in terms of world heritage and cultural remains in forests and land. We see that churches are being decommissioned and that both within and outside collections are being destroyed, stolen or traded illegally across borders. Lack of security in the central museums' collective management is only one of the rings on the water. The Government considers that the matter is settled by this letter. We don't share that sentence.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-44	Madam President, I would like We are now dealing with the report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media (KRU4) on the work of the central government administration in the field of security. On 1 August 2017, the Act regulating publicly controlled museums entered into force. This law states that museums will contribute to society and its development by promoting knowledge, cultural experiences and free opinion formation. In Sweden, we have many museums and a variety of museums with different activities and main staff. The museums have an important role to play in our society. They are a source of knowledge about our past and our present. They are a place where children and adults can meet across generational boundaries and jointly share the joy of a cultural experience that brings people closer together through the stories. It is 13 of our museums that have a government commitment. These museums are called central museums. Their collections comprise a total of millions of objects that have been collected over a long period of time and preserved in different environments. The management of these museums' collections is a central part of the preservation of our cultural heritage and is the core business of these museums. What we are debating today is the government's letter, that is to say the government's response to the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the security work of the central government museum. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that there are security risks that need to be addressed, and a comprehensive approach has now been taken to the security work at the central museums. The main conclusions of the review are: The traceability of the objects is inadequate. This is because the objects have been collected for a long time and the museums have come different stages of their work in registering their artifacts. The measures against theft and vandalism are not sufficient. Protecting the collections from theft and damage represents a balance between preserving the collections and making them available to the public. There is good knowledge of preventing long-term destruction, but it is difficult for museums to live up to the desired level. The museums work in several cases to find new warehouses that meet the desired level of safety. The lack of warehouses has been known for a long time and has been discussed in the Government's cultural heritage bill. There is a lack of preparedness for sudden disaster. The Swedish National Audit Office sees that there is a need to support the museums in this. Most museums have a disaster plan, but it needs to be better implemented by both staff and emergency services. The National Antiquities Office needs to develop support in preventing theft and vandalism. The Swedish National Audit Office considers that the National Antiquarie Office provides good support in maintaining traceability and preventing destruction and disaster in the museums' collections. However, recommendations and guidelines need to be drawn up to prevent theft and vandalism. The Committee on Culture welcomes the Swedish National Audit Office's review, which has taken a holistic approach to security work. Like the government, the Committee on Culture notes that the review and its recommendations are a valuable basis for museums in their continued efforts to further develop a secure security for the collections but also for the National Heritage Office in its support to the museums. The Social Democrats and the Committee on Culture also welcome the Government's intention to actively monitor the development of security work. The Swedish National Audit Office's review contributes to a better focus on what should be prioritised and provides a review of what resource needs look like. The Committee on Culture therefore proposes that the Parliament add the letter to the document. The reason for this is that, like the Government, we have found that the Swedish National Audit Office's review and its recommendations are a valuable basis for the state museums in their continued work to further develop a secure security for the collections. The Committee on Culture therefore welcomes the Government's active and responsible monitoring of the progress and development of security work.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-58	Madam President, I would like The reason for this debate is therefore the government's letter on the grounds that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed how the security work on the country's central museums is conducted. In this context, I would like to pay a great tribute to the Swedish National Audit Office, which has chosen to carry out a number of reviews in the field of culture, including in relation to museums. This is a great help for us in the Committee on Culture in the development work that is being carried out. In Sweden we have a myriad of museums, somewhere between 1,500 and 2,000. They have different focus on the collections. They have different owners – private, state, regional and local – and different management structures. 13 of these museums have a special status because they are a state commitment, a commitment that goes back as far as the 18th century. The commitment consists of a special task for coordination and collaboration within the subject area of the museum. The review of the safety work carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office has been based partly on the security of the objects in the collections and partly on the question whether the National Antiquarie Office within the framework of its museum assignment does enough to support the museums in that work. Safety and security work can be defined on the basis of many concepts, but in this context there are three main areas that have been taken into account: traceability, i.e. the registration and inventory of objects, theft and vandalism, and destruction and disaster. Madam President, I would like The result of the Swedish National Audit Office's review both surprises and should be taken very seriously. The review reveals shortcomings on all points. There are shortcomings in the traceability of objects and inadequate measures against theft, vandalism, destruction and disaster. Important in this context is to point out that this does not apply generally to all museums and that there are circumstances for these shortcomings that have previously been known. Nevertheless, the shortcomings need to be addressed, especially in times when we can expect future floods, fires and other climate-related disasters – we are seeing what is now happening in Venice – a growing serious criminality in which trade in valuable cultural goods forms a part and, last but not least, the increasingly deteriorating security policy situation in our neighbourhood and in the world. Madam President, I would like I would like to take two examples from past and present. I'll start with the past, World War II. Hitler and the Nazis stole a huge number of historical works of art during World War II. Some of them, in fact 5 million, were saved by an allied group called The Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives Program. They were art scholars who, frankly, risked their lives to preserve our common history. It is a noble and, to say the least, fascinating story. This group has, as you know, been portrayed in a film directed by George Clooney, The Monuments Men, but in reality it was not only Clooney, John Goodman, Bill Murray and Matt Damon who did the heroics, but there were as many as 300 people from different nations. The example of the present is the war in Syria. It is with dismay that we have recently witnessed the brutal destruction of several thousand-year-old cultural treasures in Iraq and Syria. The ancient sites that have been systematically destroyed have been designated as some of the world's most important common cultural heritage sites by UNESCO. It is dramatic, not only for the locals, but for all mankind. Historical monuments and major objects are destroyed while smaller cultural objects are sold on the illegal market to finance and support the activities of various extremist groups or criminals. Items of unique historical significance are stolen from museums and libraries or plundered from archaeological excavation sites, after which they are smuggled across borders into the EU or other parts of the world. Madam President, I would like In situations such as these, we do not want our cultural heritage to end up in times of disaster, crisis and war. Of course, there is no guarantee that this will not happen, but the preparatory work to prevent or limit the damage as far as possible can be done in our well-organized and resource-rich country. It's all about priorities. It is about preparation work in the form of already strengthening the traceability of the collections and reviewing the procedures for who should have access to the objects, as well as training and training of the staff to meet an elevated threat picture, evasive plans for suitable warehouses etc., exactly in line with the excellent recommendations in the Swedish National Audit Office's review. Madam President, I would like The Government's response to the Swedish National Audit Office's review is very brief and thin. It agrees with the results and recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office and announces that it will actively monitor how the security work in the central museums' management of the collections develops. That's right. This will definitely we Moderates also do. We will follow both the security work itself and the government's active follow-up. After all, there is an active commitment in the word, partly from the point of view that the protection and preservation of our cultural objects is to be considered as part of total defence building, with what follows from this in terms of planning and resource allocation. This is our absolute responsibility, both for generations that have passed and for generations that are coming. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-69	Madam President, I would like My daughter loves to create. Never have I seen more beautiful pictures than the ones she comes with after a while at the desk of her room. They are colorful and full of hearts and stars. And in the lower right corner, it's written with amazing accuracy, given that it's made of a six-year-old's hand: to Dad. I was going to use her creative process to discuss the School Inspectorate and the role of the state's school policy. Suppose I give my daughter the task of painting her finest picture. She's happy to accept the mission and get to work. How am I supposed to act to make the drawing all the beauty we both want it to be? An alternative would be to tell her what to paint, close the door to her room and leave her alone with the painting, look back in after a while and give her criticism of how the picture developed and point out things she did wrong. Another option would be to be there, together with her in the room, to provide a rich palette of colors, brushes and other materials that she could benefit from in her creation, have conversations with her about what colors she chooses, answer her questions about motifs or brush choices or other problems she might encounter in her creation. It is not difficult to guess which of the options I think would give her the best satisfaction and development and which would probably also lead to the best result. I am a strong advocate of pre-control support and reinforcement before criticism. I think it is support and reinforcement that makes people and organisations grow and develop into their best self. In the school area, we have chosen the way control. We give the mission, and after a while we send in the inspection, which makes sure that the picture seems to be what we've said it's supposed to be. They point out wrong things. Then they close the door again. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed how the Swedish School Inspectorate monitors that schools comply with their supervisory decisions. The review leads to the overall conclusion that there are shortcomings in the School Inspectorate's follow-up work. Therefore, the School Inspectorate receives a number of recommendations. The Government has given its opinion on the Swedish National Audit Office's report, and that is the opinion we are discussing today. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the Swedish School Inspectorate's follow-up is lacking, for example because it sometimes does not include return visits to the principal. On other occasions it fails by concluding with the feedback that the principal is planning operations, but there is no information that the operations have been carried out or the results obtained. In some cases, it fails by completely closing without any feedback on how to remedy identified deficiencies. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that there is often no justification for the closure of supervisory matters. In addition, the follow-up is not always carried out within the three-month period from the principal's accounting set up by the inspection itself, which seems to be linked to a lack of procedures for planning the follow-up. Finally, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that there are large variations across the country in how the follow-up is carried out. The Swedish National Audit Office therefore makes the following recommendations to the Authority: The School Inspectorate should more closely ensure that follow-up matters are not closed until deficiencies are resolved, by reviewing the allocation of resources and priorities within the Authority, achieving a consensus within the organisation on the types of cases that should always be followed up with visits and requiring information on the results achieved when follow-up visits are not carried out. The School Inspectorate should also ensure transparency by clarifying that all decisions should be justified. The School Inspectorate shall ensure that follow-up is carried out promptly by systematically planning them into supervisory activities. Finally, the Swedish National Audit Office recommends that the Swedish School Inspectorate should ensure increased equivalence in monitoring by regularly comparing and analysing the departments' follow-up of supervisory decisions and ensuring that the departments work more coherently in important respects. This assessment is shared by the government. In their opinion on the Swedish National Audit Office's report, the Swedish School Inspectorate has said that they are working on developing the work on the follow-up of supervisory decisions taken. Some measures have already been taken, others are planned. The Government has made the assessment that the Swedish School Inspectorate's response shows that the agency is developing its operations in line with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations. Therefore, the government has come to the conclusion that it should follow up developments in the government dialogue but not take any further action. Madam President, I would like The shortcomings revealed by the Swedish National Audit Office's audit are serious. If enforcement decisions are not followed up, there is a risk that the purpose of the supervision will fail completely. Of course, supervisory follow-up should be effective, transparent, equivalent and timely. Therefore, a united Education Committee proposes a notice to the Government that it will instruct the Swedish School Inspectorate to prioritise and develop the follow-up work. The supervisory decisions shall be followed up in such a way as to ensure that the principals carry out their activities in accordance with the School Act. Madam President, I would like We can go back to the painting, which I started with. I want to say that we have chosen a path that is not the one that leads to the strongest self-esteem and the most beautiful paintings. A supportive stance would lead much further than the controlling stance adopted by the state. But now that we have taken that path, I am pleased that the committee agrees that we should at least look at the picture when the daughter comes with the finished painting. At least we should care by looking directly, carefully and interestedly and giving a comment about the picture. That's the least you can ask for. I therefore support the proposal contained in the report of the Committee on Education and Training 3.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-86	Madam President, I would like In fact, when I discuss school issues in different contexts, I usually say that the decision to set up the School Inspectorate was one of the most important decisions in the field of school made by the Alliance Government. When I visit municipalities and schools, it is often said that it is difficult to be audited and get criticism when the inspection comes but that the reports from the inspection provide a good basis for development. I must say that I find it remarkable that Linus Sköld compares the professionals in school with his six-year-old daughter. I think that Swedish schools deserve a higher level of debate. Swedish school needs both control and support. One does not exclude the other, and it is not either or that applies. Before the Swedish School Inspectorate it was the task of the Swedish National Agency for Education to review the quality of Swedish schools. The independent schools could already then be withdrawn, but against the vast majority of schools, those with municipal authorities, there was no possibility of sanctions. From the national level, we have a responsibility for objectives and policy documents for the school, for the provision of teachers and for the right of all pupils to good and high quality education. We often discuss equivalence in the political debate, and there we have a great responsibility at national level. When it comes to ensuring an educational equivalence but also an equivalence in terms of safety and study, the School Inspectorate is a crucial tool. Too many schools today are characterised by a precarious school environment. Registrations to the Swedish Work Environment Authority regarding threats and violence at school have been close to doubling since 2014. In a survey of the School World in 2017, one in five teachers stated that they at some point hesitated to intervene in an orderly situation at their school, for example when fighting between students, for fear of being reported for themselves. Madam President, I would like It is the School Inspectorate who checks that all schools comply with the School Act. The Swedish National Audit Office has now evaluated the work of the Swedish School Inspectorate in an audit report presented to the Government and the Swedish Parliament. The most serious thing is that in more than half of the cases concerning deficiencies in safety and studies, the School Inspectorate does not make follow-up visits but closes the cases based on the school's written report. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that the cases are closed before any action has yet to be taken. That the school has written down what it is supposed to do is far from enough to ensure a safe environment in school with studies for all students. There is a need for a change in the attitude of all adults at school, and this requires both time and work. If we are serious about ensuring that all pupils feel safe in school, the authority responsible for controlling the activities must ensure that measures are taken that have an impact and that pupils can have a good study environment. Madam President, I would like Students have the right to feel safe at school and not to be afraid to go there. That a school has written down a few words on a paper and sent to the School Inspectorate does not help any one student. If you are serious about everyone having the opportunity to go to a safe school, you have to follow up on the spot that the measures that have been taken have really brought about a change so that you do not continue in the same way as before, even though you have written down a lot of words on a piece of paper. The fact that the government does not react more strongly to the serious criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office makes, we find moderates remarkable. In our budget, we spend 50 million more than the government on the School Inspectorate, among other things to ensure that it can follow up its decisions. The Moderates want to see a zero tolerance to mess and trouble in school and have therefore in a follow-up motion to the letter demanded that the Government commission the Swedish School Inspectorate to prioritise the work with follow-ups and through proper inspections ensure that mess and trouble in school ends. When the Education Committee discussed the issue in Parliament on 7 November, it became clear that all parties in the Riksdag support such a call and approve motion requests from the Moderates, Liberals, Swedish Democrats and Christian Democrats. It is gratifying that we have a consensus so far on the School Inspectorate. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-99	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report. This report is based on the report published by the Swedish National Audit Office at the beginning of the year, which, as we have heard, concerned a review of the School Inspectorate's follow-up to the supervisory decisions that led to an injunction. The purpose of the review has been to assess whether the follow-up to the decisions has been satisfactory or not. In this context, the Swedish National Audit Office has noted that the follow-ups are deficient in terms of measures, transparency and urgency. This is not really new. Already the audit carried out in 2013 revealed about the same shortcomings, although we can see a significant improvement between 2013 and 2019. The Swedish National Audit Office nevertheless notes that the supervision activities of the Swedish School Inspectorate have not been carried out effectively. One of the most common and perhaps most alarming deficiencies identified by the Swedish School Inspectorate concerns issues relating to safety, study and insulting treatment. Precisely security and study are of the utmost importance, not only for the desire to go to school but also for the opportunity to assimilate the teaching in the best way. It is also a prerequisite not only for the students but also for the teachers and for the teaching profession to get the status it deserves and for the teacher education to attract the very best students. A poor working environment does not produce good knowledge or attracts the best teachers. The reality, however, is different. Daily reports tell us that teachers have to spend more and more time maintaining order in the classrooms. Threats and violence against teachers are becoming more common and also more severe. Registrations to the Swedish Work Environment Authority clearly demonstrate this. They have increased dramatically over the last five years. The pupils who are affected are not usually those who have an easy time at school, but they are the students who are in greatest need of support. That is precisely why it is important that we have a well-functioning supervisory authority that ensures that action is taken when such shortcomings occur. The Swedish National Audit Office criticises the fact that in more than half of the cases concerning safety deficiencies and studies there are no follow-up visits. Instead, the School Inspectorate chooses to rely entirely on the principals' written reports. It may not be unwarranted in all cases, but the fact that the principal writes that measures have been taken says quite little about the effect these measures have had. The Swedish National Audit Office also states that in these particular cases it may be difficult to determine whether a deficiency has actually been remedied or not. The Swedish National Audit Office says that the Swedish School Inspectorate rarely takes part in, for example, survey results to support the principal's accounting, although there are regulations to do this. In the survey conducted by the Swedish National Audit Office, fewer than half of the inspectors in Lund, Gothenburg, Stockholm and Umeå believe that the follow-up ensures that the deficiencies have been remedied. The teacher surveys also show poor figures. There may also be other reasons why it is in the principal's interest to report to the School Inspectorate that the notifications have been rectified, and that is to ensure that the case is closed as soon as possible. It is not that a visit from the School Inspectorate is something that one looks forward to with joy, but it can often be seen as something annoying and something that one would rather not have. Above all, the school does not want criticism. The school inspectorate has also flagged that the level of ambition will be reduced in the future due to a lack of resources. There will simply be fewer follow-ups. Such a development would, as we see it, be devastating in a situation where more controls are needed than fewer. We in the Swedish Democrats have therefore also proposed in our draft budget, which we will be discussing in a few weeks' time, a substantial budgetary reinforcement to the Swedish School Inspectorate, precisely to guarantee school studies. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the Swedish Democrats take the criticism of the Swedish National Audit Office seriously. The task of the School Inspectorate is to ensure that municipalities and independent schools comply with the School Act and that the school activities in general are of high quality. It is also important that high demands are placed on the activities of the investigating authority. We find it remarkable that the Swedish National Audit Office does not choose to make any recommendations to the Government to strengthen the work of the Swedish School Inspectorate. It is ultimately the government that is responsible for ensuring that the supervisory authority has carried out its task properly and that it is given sufficient resources to do so. Unfortunately, we can note that in its letter the government finds everything to be peaceful and happy and that it does not intend to take any further action. Our view is that the government must act as a driving force for the Swedish School Inspectorate to strengthen the follow-up work. That is precisely why it is good that the committee is announcing this to the government.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-116	Madam President, I would like On Tuesday, the Swedish School Inspectorate presented its biennial survey. It shows, among other things, that the proportion of safe students in the ninth grade decreased from 88 per cent in 2013 to 83 per cent in 2018. The same study shows that most students who feel safe and have studies also feel that the school gives a desire to learn. Among the students who experienced insecurity, only half thought that schoolwork was fun and that they wanted to learn. To create security and studyo is therefore crucial in order to strengthen the knowledge in school and give students an increased desire to learn. This requires several measures. The Center Party recently held a party meeting where we adopted a new educational programme: a school to be trusted. There we present a series of proposals and reforms to increase security and study. Among other things, we want to strengthen the teacher's role in the classroom, provide better opportunities to act against messy students and strengthen inspections of those schools where security is lacking. We also want to ensure that the school authorities act early on to support principals and teachers in these schools. Madam President, I would like The report from the Swedish National Audit Office that we are debating today is about the Swedish School Inspectorate's follow-up of shortcomings regarding security and studies in schools. The review shows that the follow-up work differs in several respects between departments. The review found that there was no common model for determining which supervisory matters are to be followed up by visits, nor for when decisions are to be taken. In some departments, a majority of the reports were followed up by visits. In other cases, only one fifth received a follow-up in the form of visits to schools. It was very different to what extent final decisions were justified and also what time the School Inspectorate had spent on the various cases. In view of this, the Swedish National Audit Office has made several recommendations to the Swedish School Inspectorate to increase equivalence and transparency, and to ensure that follow-ups are carried out more promptly and in a more systematic manner. In particular, information on the results obtained shall be required from schools not visited by the inspection. However, the Swedish National Audit Office has not made any recommendations to the Government. A united committee, on the other hand, has landed in making an announcement to the government to instruct the Swedish School Inspectorate to prioritise and develop the follow-up work. We believe that follow-up should be done better, that derogations should be ensured and that this is done in a quality-assured manner. An important issue when it comes to equivalence is that monitoring is carried out in a similar way regardless of where it is carried out in the country in which it is carried out. It is about increased security and studyo, and thus gives students in school better opportunities to get the desire to learn and the opportunity to acquire knowledge. This gives students better opportunities to have access to a school that they can trust.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-125	Madam President, I would like The principle of equal schooling throughout the country is important. The School Inspectorate has an important task to follow up that schools give students good and equal conditions to achieve the goals and get approved results. It is therefore ironic when the Swedish National Audit Office says that the Swedish School Inspectorate's own work has been carried out in different ways at different departments in the country. How, then, can it be ensured that the reviews are equivalent and that pupils are given a level playing field to achieve the objectives? It is therefore good that the Swedish National Audit Office examines the state authorities and points out the shortcomings found. It is valuable, not least for those who are indirectly dependent. In the present case, it is about the pupils and staff at the schools where the School Inspectorate has found shortcomings. After all, the very idea behind the inspections is that the shortcomings that have been revealed should be corrected. But how is it to be ensured that identified deficiencies have really been remedied when the School Inspectorate has not returned with follow-up in a number of cases? It is serious that the Swedish National Audit Office writes that there is no common model for determining which supervisory matters should be followed up with visits and not. How supervisory matters have been closed by the Swedish School Inspectorate has also been criticised. It has turned out that a number of cases have not been closed at all. This has shown how important it is to have an independent auditing authority such as the Swedish National Audit Office. It is also a good thing that the government has taken on board the Swedish National Audit Office's assessments. But, Madam President, according to us Christian Democrats, that is not enough. An important goal of our Swedish education system is for all students to have equal opportunities for a good education. The School Inspectorate is a tool to check that the principals comply with laws and regulations. The Swedish National Audit Office's review shows that the Swedish School Inspectorate is unable to do this in a number of respects. When we met the Director-General in the Education Committee, it was possible to read between the lines that the resources of the inspection are simply not sufficient to carry out the follow-up and closures on all the matters which they would actually have had to do. We therefore noted with satisfaction that the Government's budget for next year has increased on the School Inspectorate's framework in order to enable them, as we see it, to do more to follow-up and close the cases requested. However, the Christian Democrats believe that the Swedish School Inspectorate needs to be given an extended mandate in addition to this. From time to time, there are reports that there are schools that do not comply with the school law. It may be a matter of distinguishing between girls and boys in teaching or in school buses, or that secular elements occur in the context of teaching rather than being separated, as the law prescribes. Today, the School Inspectorate has limited opportunities to carry out unannounced inspections. When an inspection is pre-notified, the school in question is given the opportunity to clean up any abuse, which can then resume when the School Inspectorate turns its back on it. Therefore, we believe that the Swedish School Inspectorate needs to have increased funding and an expanded mission in order to be able to carry out unannounced audits and more audits, in addition to having to follow up and complete matters properly. We have also been pursuing the thesis for several years that the Swedish School Inspectorate should be able to help spread all the good examples you encounter when visiting schools around the country and build a kind of knowledge bank. In this way, the deterrent role of the School Inspectorate could today be complemented by an exchange of knowledge and learning. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-133	Madam President, I would like First of all, we in the Liberals would like to support the proposal in the report regarding the government's handling of the Swedish National Audit Office's letter in connection with the review of the State's school inspection. Let me supplement this important debate on why there is a school inspection. The liberals have for many years been critical of the municipalisation of Swedish schools, the shortcomings in the equivalence of Swedish schools and the strong differences within schools, between schools and between municipalities. Therefore, it becomes particularly important that there is a national function, a national authority, in this case the School Inspectorate, which should really help to try to contribute to the equivalence of students' performance development, quality, teachers' conditions and pupils' conditions. It will be particularly interesting when the Swedish National Audit Office examines another government authority. We were told in the Education Committee that they did not agree on the conclusions of the audit report. The Swedish National Audit Office had noted certain things, and when the Swedish School Inspectorate came to the committee in May, they interpreted the criticism in a different way. We will have to deal with this, but at the end of the day a political assessment is still needed. What is particularly serious is that we have looked at two key areas of school policy: education and security, and special support and adjustments. A particularly important issue is the legitimacy of the State's school inspection when it does not close the review cases properly, especially if it has imposed fines or imposed measures. This is the core criticism of the Swedish National Audit Office. It's about the inspection turning to desk products. You may be content with the principal, a principal or a manager sending a written note to the School Inspectorate. Then you close the case. What is particularly remarkable, Madam President, as the report also shows, is that in some cases cases cases have been closed despite the fact that planned measures have never been implemented. It is particularly harsh criticism of the School Inspectorate. Madam President, I would like I am not one of the politicians or parties who want to lurk in the role of the School Inspectorate. There are even politicians who want to close the School Inspectorate. Absolutely not! We will retain the Swedish School Inspectorate, which will retain its supervisory and quality review tasks. We in the Liberals will see to that in the framework of the January agreement. This is where the government has gone too far. It is remarkable what we can read in the report, namely that in the letter from June – relatively quickly after both the Swedish National Audit Office and the Swedish School Inspectorate have visited the committee – the government does not need to take any further action, given that it is clear from the Swedish School Inspectorate's opinion that the inspection is about to remedy several of the identified shortcomings. This closes the case. What we are doing today in this House is important. We tell the government that we in Parliament do not think that this matter should be closed on the basis of the evidence available. That is why, hopefully this afternoon, we are making a decision to make a request to the Minister for Education and the Government to follow up the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism. Studying and security are one of the most important issues in school policy. It is a prerequisite for safety, good working environment, learning, development and knowledge development in schools. Several reports show that the development is going in the wrong direction, and this is in the light of the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism. The criticism was presented before the summer. This is a period when we receive different signals, not least from the School Inspectorate but also from the Teachers' Union and other trade union representatives, that developments in the field of study and safety are going the wrong way. One third of Sweden's teachers say in the survey that they have to spend more time in the classroom to maintain order and study there. This steals time from giving help to the students and from the important teaching. It also becomes problematic for the authority we have. This is about confidence in the State's school inspection and its legitimacy. If it is to function as the extended arm of the State, it should also be able to close its cases properly. We who work with school policy know that some of the School Inspectorate's quality reports in some municipalities – whether it has been a municipal school or a free school – have contributed to revolutionary changes. These have ranged from the issue of periodic penalty payments – fines – to the withdrawal of the permit for free schools. At the beginning of this year, Madam President, we also saw how, for the first time in Botkyrka, a state correction decision was taken. This is because the Swedish School Inspectorate has for a long time discovered shortcomings during its quality review. There the Swedish School Inspectorate shows that, with the right handling and the right action, you can take to their most powerful tools. All pupils have the right to a good education, including students in the schools that have been examined in these matters. It is also important that the cases are properly closed against them.
i-ASLLcEALHaZj6phWuRjmxK	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for the Environment and Climate Policy Isabella Lövin, Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister Hans Dahlgren and Minister Matilda Ernkrans. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Minister for the Environment and Climate Action answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-148	Mr President, I would like to Last weekend was dark. One 15-year-old boy was murdered in a pizzeria, another suffered life-threatening injuries and one woman was brutally beaten at a bus stop. In Brå's National Security Survey, over a quarter of the population reported that they were subjected to crimes such as assault, threats or sexual offences last year. This is very bad. The government is happy to talk about 10,000 more police workers, but much more needs to be done. The attractiveness of the police profession must be increased. If there is no increase in attractiveness, the target of 10,000 more police workers will not be reached. Today, the dropout from the police academy is very large, and 120 out of 950 seats are empty.
i-QCojgAw3Et6ySD7DFTgz93	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magdalena Schröder, for the question! We see the issue of increased crime and, above all, crime in our streets and squares and among young people as extremely worrying. We have worked on this issue for a long time, not least in order to strengthen the police. 10,000 new police officers are what the government has set itself as targets. Right now, there are more than twice as many people as before who have started police training, and we have started two new police training courses, one in Malmö and one in Borås. We also note that wages are on their way up. We note that training a police officer takes two and a half years. We are about to strengthen the police presence in the streets and squares in order to curb these terrible crimes, but we also need to work more on crime prevention, for some of the crimes that we see being committed by very young people.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-153	Mr President, I would like to The fact that 120 out of 950 seats are empty is nothing to be proud of. The police profession is one of the most honorable occupations one can choose, and one should also be paid accordingly. For this reason, the Moderates propose a special salary effort, paid police training and measures to reinstate retired police officers. Why doesn't the government do any of this?
i-2a17eebd4254850f-155	Mr President, I would like to We have brought over 360 million to the Police Agency to improve police working conditions, and we have seen that the Police Authority has grown with nearly 3 000 employees since 2014. The Police Authority and the Police Federation have concluded agreements on police salaries that will increase by 5.7 per cent this year, well above the labour market benchmark. We are continuing to make the police profession as attractive as possible.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-158	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Isabella Lövin. Today we are seeing a development in Sweden with increased gang crime that is spreading lower down the age range. No other country in Western Europe has so many young people involved in shootings and killings. Despite the disastrous developments, the government persists in claiming that it is doing everything to crush the growing gang crime. Reactions have arisen in our neighbouring countries, and there is concern that the chaos in our country will spread. Denmark's Minister of Justice says, "This must not become everyday in Denmark. We'll secure the safety of the Danes. To achieve this, Denmark has now introduced border controls against Sweden. The reason is the increased threat from Swedish organised crime that has been responsible for both blasts and murders in Copenhagen. The Nordic region is the world's most integrated region and has a common labour market. The Swedish democrats want it to remain so, but unfortunately the Swedish government's failure is putting a brake on the Nordic relations. How could this happen, and can the government see any responsibility of its own in this failure?
i-CPmvXwNgMqriMh6SZWxrLe	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Katja Nyberg, for the question! The government has tightened the penalties and introduced new penal headings for about fifty different crimes since we took office in 2014. There has never been so much activity in the fight against crime. We have noted that Denmark has announced its intention to introduce internal border control against Sweden. After we introduced checks against Denmark, we saw how, among other things, the number of housing breaches in southern Sweden decreased. I respect the Danish Government's strengthening of border control in order to keep criminal records. We have consultations with Denmark and the EU according to the usual procedures. It is very important that we cooperate with neighbouring countries and within the EU to curb cross-border crime.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-166	Mr President, I would like to Tell me, Isabella Lövin, what it is that says your policy that repeatedly fails would work now? The pancake doesn't get better by turning it twice. You have a powerful rhetoric, but in reality the criminals writhe with laughter when they hear about your perceptive attempts. Where are the correct, effective measures? What is the government's plan for us to maintain internal Nordic mobility? Right now it's moving in the opposite direction.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-167	Mr President, I would like to I think there are many of us who appreciate internal Nordic mobility, and we appreciate Nordic cooperation in areas such as security and combating cross-border crime. Sweden and Denmark are cooperating, and so are we in the Nordic and EU context, and we will continue to do so. It is important that we have an exchange of information, and it is also important what we do here at home to actually cage the criminals. As far as this is concerned, we can see that we have done a very large and systematic work over the last five years.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-170	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Isabella Lövin. In Sweden, we buy on average over 13 kilos of new clothes and textiles per person and year. Then e-commerce is not included, and probably the figure is significantly higher. Consumption and production of textiles have a major impact on the environment and climate. In order to reduce this impact, we need to switch to more responsible and sustainable production. In the January agreement, we have agreed to introduce producer responsibility for textiles. It's very important. But a crucial challenge is also to succeed in creating a market for recycled materials and recycled materials. There are pioneers in this area. Renewcell can be mentioned in Kristianstad and Södra Skogsägare, which has cutting-edge projects, but one sees a challenge in managing to scale up their operations. This is worrying because there is a risk that we will not be able to create this market or move the business to other countries, such as Germany. My question to the Government is therefore: what does the government intend to do to strengthen the conditions for these cutting-edge projects and companies that help to create more sustainable production and consumption?
i-2a17eebd4254850f-176	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magnus Ek, for an important question! Textiles is one of the products in the world that creates the greatest environmental problems and affects the climate most, not least through the cultivation of cotton and the release of greenhouse gases associated with it. That is why we need to be much better at recycling textiles and having new sustainable textile materials. In the January agreement we agree to introduce producer responsibility for textiles. That is to say, producers should be responsible for recycling in exactly the same way as for paper, plastics, glass and other waste fractions. One must be able to collect and ensure that it becomes a good market for those who want to invest in textiles that are recycled. I would also like to mention that we support Finland in having an EU strategy for the circular economy, and we particularly stress that textiles should enter the circular economy.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-180	Mr President, I would like to I welcome all of this. What I am focusing on is whether the Government sees that there is something more we can do to strengthen the companies that manage to create markets when we have collected textiles. We agree on this, and there are initiatives under way to ensure that we manage to collect textile materials for recycling or re-use. Of course we want to recycle as much as possible. But some must also be recycled and become new textiles. It must be able to go out on a new market, and it must be possible to get an economy in it.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-182	Mr President, I would like to Yes, there must be an end to the buying-and-slip society that we have developed. We really need to get the circular material flows going. Financial incentives can be used. This is also something that the parties in the January agreement are discussing jointly. How should we implement a circular economy and strategy aimed at Sweden? We are also working on it at EU level, so that we can get sufficient flows to recycle plastic as well as textiles and other materials. Some of it ends up on the dump today or is burned. It's not sustainable.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-184	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Matilda Ernkrans about the move of the International Library here in Stockholm and the national assignment that they have through the Royal Library, KB. Since 2 November, the International Library has been closed for relocation, and no media orders can be made until January. The criticism of the green blue majority that has taken the decision to split operations and reduce the number of employees has been widespread. The staff had at its peak knowledge of 20 languages and has a cutting-edge knowledge of world literature that no other library can match. Within their specialisation, they have been able to find books from countries where there is hardly any functioning book publishing and in languages that have been banned in parts of the world. Librarians have been able to help visitors on site and have provided literature and other media to the whole country based on the mission they have received from KB. My assessment and that of many others is that the new arrangement with two different locations and fewer specialised librarians will mean a deterioration. My question to the Government is therefore: How does she see the City of Stockholm making this change? And how will the Government ensure that the new business can offer public libraries and its borrowers the same high-quality offering that the International Library has offered?
i-2a17eebd4254850f-188	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Vasiliki Tsouplaki. That is an important issue. However, decisions that have been taken locally must also be taken as a matter of local responsibility. What I have assured me is that the Royal Library has received assurances and intends to ensure that what has been ordered and promised in terms of how the International Library is to be arranged is also completed. I have ensured that the Royal Library knows what the International Library is to deliver and what arrangements have been made with the local level. Then the local level must take responsibility for its decisions.
i-NpEGwNXCwjrySziZKMZHZv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. A large part of this is of course a local issue for Stockholm. But I am not really reassured about how the slimmed business that will be on Liljeholmen will be able to live up to the national mission with the same quality as before. IB has managed a book tax of around 200 000 titles in over 100 languages. This has been partly built up with national funds. My supplementary question will be: Is Minister Ernkrans prepared to act if it turns out that the new organisation in Stockholm means reduced service for the rest of the country?
i-3JMSRr5CEuG48STD9Jng26	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President. The decisions taken locally must, as I said, be taken into account locally. I have ensured that the Royal Library feels a sense of security. They are also careful and have been clear to the local level what mission KB has agreed on and how to live up to the national mission. That's where we are right now.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-195	Mr President, I would like to We have a unique situation in Sweden with 200 shootings and nearly 200 blasts so far this year. There is, of course, a lot to ask the government about this, not least as regards the participation of the Green Party in the government. From the outside, it often appears that the veto card in question is being inserted after the question and has been slowing down legal policy for several years. However, my question concerns insecurity in a different way. It concerns the insecurity of shops, swimming pools and libraries. In January this year there was an investigation into the introduction of a ban on access. The referral bodies made their views known six months ago. Swedish Commerce has been calling for this for years. The view of the Christian Democrats is that this is an important issue. No one should have to worry about being abused in a swimming pool. There must also be order and order in the libraries where today, unfortunately, things are going in the wrong direction. Why has the government not yet made a proposal? Six months have passed since the consultation bodies made their views known.
i-BuS2mRBXSfvQYMuVSjVr1H	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Andreas Carlson, for the question! Since the honourable Member began with a sweeping accusation against the party that I lead, I would like to take this opportunity to object to the fact that, during this parliamentary term and the previous one, we have tightened the penalties for more than 50 offences and crimes. We have also introduced new crimes. The Green Party has been involved in these decisions and has expressed various views on what should be increased penalties, including the recruitment of minors for criminal activities. With regard to a precise timetable for the submission of various legislative proposals for which the honourable Member is asking, I can refer you to my colleague, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-201	Mr President, I would like to My general concern is not so much about the issues and proposals that have been put forward but about the proposals that have not been put forward and that have been slowed down. But now the specific issue is the ban on access. Swedish trade spends 11 billion a year on security costs. It's half a police budget. It was stolen; last year it was stolen for 6.8 billion in stores. This is a very urgent issue. It is of course worrying that it has not reached the Deputy Prime Minister when proposals are to be made. It guarantees further displacements. That would be extremely serious. The situation is very serious here and now.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-204	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to object to the honourable Member's description. I do not know what proposals he refers to. The fact is that the Green Party really wants to see that in this country we have both the rule of law and the effective fight against crime. It is not always the tightening of penalties that leads to a reduction in crime. We also need to work to prevent young people from entering crime and with additional security measures in society.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-207	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. When you're out looking at the fine research policy and research opportunities around the country, as a Swedish politician, you become proud that in international comparison we in Sweden have a lot of researchers and are active in academia at a high level, given our population. We are also very productive when it comes to various scientific publications and articles. When you drill a bit in depth and review the quality measurements and the qualitative one sees that Sweden is lagging behind and does not cope with the tough competition from Asia in particular. As we now discuss research proposals and other current issues, I wonder what initiatives the Government intends to take to also increase the quality culture and quality of research policy in Sweden.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-209	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Roger Haddad! We are in the midst of a major process and dialogue with not least everyone involved in industry, research councils, universities and other individual actors on how to shape future research policy. We have just received over 200 answers – almost 300 input – on how to deal with future research policy. I think that we must respect the work that is being done so that we can carry out careful analyses of how to move forward. It is also important to find a good dialogue here in the Swedish Parliament. This applies not least between the Liberals, the Government and the Center Party, which have budgetary cooperation. These are of course important things that Sweden will continue to invest in so that we have research of good quality throughout our country.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-211	Mr President, I would like to When you look at the report from the Swedish Research Council, our expert authority, you can see that measures for increased quality and a better quality culture are needed. This is not a budget issue. I note that the process surrounding the research proposal has the character of the areas you want to prioritise and what funds you would like to see. My question is also about the Steering and Resource Investigation whose report has soon been in the Ministry of Education for one year. In it, the focus is on quality, among other things. When does it concretely come back?
i-2a17eebd4254850f-212	Mr President, I would like to The fact that we have handled the proposals of the Steering and Resource Investigation for a year is probably a truth with modification. I received that investigation at the beginning of this year. It had undergone a very large process with great commitment from many parts of the higher education institutions. We have analysed it and today we know about the proposals. Some of this we will deal with in the research policy bill, I hope. Maybe we can take other parts. We will have to come back to that.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-214	Mr President, I would like to With the serious events taking place in our country and not least in the part of the country from which I come, it is easy to be concerned about the future at times. Perhaps you also feel a certain amount of abandonment. Of course, these serious events dominate the debate on society, and the work of the Swedish parliament is the nature of politics. It is based on conflict and debate. But the nature of politics is also based on the ability to take responsibility and to create faith in the future. In contrast to these events, there is also reason to reflect on areas where we provide resources and where there is enthusiasm for policy delivery. When, in my work as a defence policy, I meet employees of the Swedish Armed Forces, the relevant authorities and members of NGOs, I can see the future. I can see that the policy is consistent and vigorous. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Defence a question about how he views the investments that have been added to the total defence since 2014.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-216	Mr President, I would like to 33 billion over the period 2016 – 2020 is an increase of 14 billion. The agreement between the Government, the Center Party and the Liberals represents an investment of 25 billion between 2021 – 2025. In total, approximately 75 billion will be added during the period. These are very large amounts. It provides a good platform for a forthcoming discussion next year ahead of a defence bill that will ensure a military capacity increase during the next defence period, from 2021 to 2025. We will receive the Swedish Armed Forces' analysis of the Defence Committee's proposal tomorrow. I have also called all parties in the Defence Committee to an information session on Monday. Then the process begins towards a bill.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-218	Mr President, I would like to I note that 33 billion has been added to the Swedish Armed Forces during the last term of office to strengthen the entire total defence, both military and civilian. There has been a settlement in the Swedish parliament between four parties: the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Liberals and the Center Party. This is where we now want to take further initiatives on the future of total defence. How does the Secretary of Defense view the coming years?
i-2a17eebd4254850f-219	Mr President, I would like to I see that there is a good basic condition for producing a bill that guarantees a military capacity increase even up to 2025. I also see that the platform we have in the Defence Committee's proposals can provide a very good basis for conducting these discussions. There are therefore also good conditions for a broad political agreement. The process will begin shortly, and the bill is scheduled for the next year.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-222	Mr President, I would like to The greatest challenge of our time is climate change. I would therefore like to ask my question to Isabella Lövin, Minister for the Environment and Climate Action. Global Sustainability Goal No. 11, Sustainable cities and communities, is an objective that I, in my role as chairman of the Parliamentary Civil Committee, am very passionate about, but also personally. The goal is to make cities and communities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-225	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Hult, for a very important question! For a very large part of the earth's population lives in cities. The development is that more and more people are moving into cities and not least large mega cities, which can have a population larger than the entire population of Sweden. It is therefore very important that we work with sustainable urban development, also with concepts that we can export. This is what Sweden does. Based on Agenda 2030 and Objective No. 11, we have an investment platform for smart cities, Smart City Sweden. During the last parliamentary term, we introduced support, called an urban environment agreement, in which we co-finance sustainable infrastructure. You can build homes that have good public transport, good opportunities for children and a safe environment with greenery. This is extremely important when we will see more extreme weather events. Look at Venice now with the floods there! We need urban green to absorb rain but also to cool our cities.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-227	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is where we build the society of the future. I hope we will all work to build it as sustainable as we can. Isabella Lövin just started by talking about the parts about how climate change will affect the cities and communities that we have. My question was also whether there are more examples where we in Sweden could export solutions. Urban environmental agreements are a part of this, but are there other examples of solutions that we could easily export and also help other countries with?
i-2a17eebd4254850f-228	Mr President, I would like to Yes, through the UN agency UN-Habitat, Sweden is pushing these issues. We have announced SEK 50 million to work with green and secure societies before the 2020 budget bill. These are extremely important strategies that we urgently need to be able to communicate and share if we are to cope with a climate of more extreme weather events. State green can cool down cities, but it can also reduce the risk of extreme flooding when the climate hits us in the form of increased rainfall.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-230	Mr President, I would like to I turn to Minister Dahlgren, although the previous exchange of views with the Minister for Defence raised an enormous number of questions about the economic acrobat trick, which we will have to return to after tomorrow's accounts have come from the authorities. Mr President, I would like to On 16 November 2009, Sergej Magnitsky died in his prison cell in Moscow, killed by the regime. Since then, work has been going on throughout the world, both in Europe and in the United States, to introduce so-called Magnitsky laws in order to hunt down the people who kill and attack people and commit human rights violations. Perhaps in Europe there are conditions for a Magnitsky law. How does the government feel about that? If an EU agreement cannot be reached, would Sweden be prepared, together with like-minded countries, to look for the conditions for a Magnitsky law?
i-2a17eebd4254850f-233	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Wallmark for the question. This is a question of what instruments can be used to tackle situations of gross violations of fundamental human rights, which, of course, include the right to life, as is the case in the Magnitsky case. That is an urgent matter. Sweden is interested in working with this. We are working together with other countries of the European Union to find a common order for this. Working together with our European partners, we believe, is the best way to get an effective order.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-236	Mr President, I would like to I intend to put my question to Minister Lövin. 18 out of 20 regions are facing major economic difficulties and will be in deficit in the health sector this year. Last week, Karolinska University Hospital told 250 doctors and 350 nurses – this at a time when we are already struggling with a lack of care places and at the same time an increased need for care. Of course, this type of savings will have serious consequences for patient safety and further impair access to care. The welfare services in our country are rapidly deteriorating, and that is nothing more than the result of an irresponsible policy that has long been conducted at national level and which the regions of that country now have to deal with with with with all possible means.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-239	Mr President, I would like to I thank Clara Aranda for the question. This is, of course, a very important issue. I look with great concern at all the premonitions placed at Karolinska Hospital. The Government works very actively to shorten the queues for healthcare, including through an investment of 1,280,000,000 SEK for 2020. We propose changes in the cost compensation for municipalities and county councils, so that more funds can be transferred to the most needy county councils and municipalities. We can see that there are many county councils and municipalities that are currently in deficit after a number of years of very good economy. That is something we need to deal with. It is also important that, in the event of demographic change with an increasing number of older people, we can ensure that we have enough resources to take care of those who are in need. Everyone's gonna be taken care of.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-241	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Hultqvist. Remilitarisation of Gotland has been a priority for the Center Party and all other parties. We've been in complete agreement. So far, it can be said that it is a very great success. A new rational regiment has been built, the first in many years. The recruitment of officers has gone very well. There's a lot of acceptance among the Gotlanders. I also note that the Defence Committee agrees to continue to invest in Gotland. Tomorrow – an important day – the Swedish Armed Forces will come up with their assessment of what is in the cards. I would like to ask the question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist : What future powers are needed on Gotland during the next defence period?
i-2a17eebd4254850f-244	Mr President, I would like to As I have said before, Gotland is one of the areas that should be prioritised in a forthcoming defence decision. We will have to come back to what powers it should be about when the process towards a bill has been carried out. It is too early today to present such views. Gotland has an excellent strategic location in the middle of the Baltic Sea. What happens in Gotland affects both the Baltics and Finland as well as the Swedish mainland. I see that there will be further investments in Gotland. I hope that we will be able to have a broad consensus on this in the Swedish Parliament.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-247	Mr President, I would like to Dagens Nyheter has reviewed Sweden's acquisition of cheap and uncertain emission credits in several articles. The credit may be cheap, but the climate benefit is low or none at all. The purchase of stoves and tree plantings by the Energy Agency in Uganda is specifically reviewed. In Uganda, for example, thousands of families have been displaced by the Energy Agency's tree plantings. There is talk of air castles and climate colonialism. In this connection, I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action what conclusions she draws from these reviews. I would also like to ask the Minister whether she intends to ensure that continued purchases of unsafe emission credits are stopped in order to achieve our Swedish climate targets and whether she intends to work to investigate these two specific cases, where the Swedish Energy Agency has been involved.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-249	Mr President, I would like to The question of whether to buy emission reductions in another country has been on the table for a very long time. Since the start of the climate negotiations and the adoption of the so-called Kyoto Protocol, there have been mechanisms known as clean development mechanisms. I personally think it's a kind of indulgence letter for us rich– we're buying emission reductions elsewhere– unless what we're doing really helps development in that country, which we shouldn't rule out that the CDM mechanisms actually do. We have seen a substantial tightening up in how to check that they provide additional emission reductions. There are no excuses for expulsion or anything else. We have continuous control and audit at UN level and of course also from Sweden. You have to make sure you live up to these criteria. For me, the task will be to ensure that the criteria are met in accordance with § 6 of the Paris Agreement.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-252	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for European Affairs. I have often referred to the social pillar that exists in the European Union and which was actually intended for the euro zone but which the Prime Minister chose to sign and enter. It was voluntary. Now we see the consequences. We're gonna get minimum wages. We will also have problems keeping the EU budget down. The social pillar states that EU funds should finance various reforms in the social pillar. How will the EU Minister ensure that we do not risk increasing our EU budget? We from the Christian Democrats have made it clear that there must be no more than 1% of bni. I would also like to hear whether the EU Minister could possibly organise some type of opt-out, which the UK and Denmark have in various areas, particularly with regard to the labour market. We have been promised that we will not have to participate in various labour market programmes. How does the Minister of the European Union see us being able to stay out of minimum wages?
i-Jgrzt2cFowm1Xb4gRRgUA7	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Pethrus, for the question. We will not automatically receive minimum wages in Sweden. We will work to ensure that the order and proposals that may come from the Commission are designed in such a way that we preserve the Swedish and Nordic model in our own country. We already have many contacts with the incoming Commissioner on these issues. We have also had contacts with our like-minded colleagues with the incoming President of the Commission. We have good hopes that it will work out in a way that respects the national order of each country, including that of our own country. My conclusion is that we also need not fear any other inconveniences that would cause us to ask for an opt-out. The whole Prime Minister's declaration yesterday before this House was that we are fully part of the European Community, with some exceptions, of course, with regard to euro cooperation and so on.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-260	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Minister Ernkrans. The fact that I chose to continue studying after high school with my class background was not self-evident. Not only do social factors affect the transition, but there are also problems when it comes to geographical distances but also gender differences. Although universities and colleges have long been commissioned to work for and promote broader recruitment, it is still twice as common for those who have educated parents or are women to choose to continue their studies over men.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-264	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President, for the question. This really is something that I feel we need to do more of. The teachers have long been on this mission. It is so obvious that it cannot only be the children of academics who attend our colleges. It should also be the construction worker's daughter as well as the official's son or the young man from the country entering higher education. If you don't think that class, gender or geography is important for more people to have access to higher education, it's just that we have major skills shortages for a reason. We need more people who step into college to train as a nurse, teacher or whatever it may be. We really need to do something about this. The University Chancellor's Office has now received a thematic assignment from the Government. For about a year, you should review the universities' work on this in order to put an even greater momentum and an even greater pressure on us to get further. I'm looking forward to that.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-269	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Detention Peter Hultqvist. The Saab Kockum shipyard in Karlskrona produces surface combat vessels and submarines for the Swedish Navy. Although Saab Kockums has been at high speed in recent years with both mid-term modification and new production of submarines, the business is now threatened by an order shortage. There is a great need for new orders from next year in particular. Otherwise, it will be difficult to keep today's business. Saab Kockums has unique expertise in submarine construction and composite production for surface combat vessels of the Visby class. Essential national security interests are an expression that the Minister of Defence has basically coined. Furthermore, the Navy has clearly expressed the urgent need for the development of the next generation of surface combat vessels. The Alliance government acted through extraordinary measures to maintain the competence and capacity of its government period. How does the Minister of Defence intend to act in response to the announced lack of command?
i-2a17eebd4254850f-273	Mr President, I would like to The action in connection with the takeover of the Karlskrona shipyard by Saab had a broad political foundation. I am well aware of how the whole structure and activity was carried out, and they were absolutely necessary. Submarine competence has a long tradition in Sweden and is very important for Sweden. The submarine operational capability in the Baltic Sea has a significant bearing on Swedish defence capabilities. What is produced within the framework of Swedish submarine production is specially designed for the Baltic Sea's water and conditions. I am well informed about the situation regarding Kockums, Saab and the long-term issues. That is something that needs to be dealt with in relation to the defence bill that is now to be prepared and will certainly be discussed in the deliberations that will be between the political parties. Thank you for asking.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-277	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Matilda Ernkrans my question. Education is in many ways the solution to both unemployment and labour shortages. We can see that if you have upper secondary or tertiary education you have a much greater chance of getting a job. It is also within that group that the labour market shouts for educated people. Some of the shortage professions require higher education. This applies, for example, to childcare, preschool, care for the elderly, health care and school.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-280	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. This too is a very important issue. One of the really big tasks we have is to ensure that we dimension higher education so that it meets the needs of the labour market to a greater extent. We're doing a lot. We lay out places for education at different universities. We have given priority to educational efforts in the areas of teachers, nurses, doctors and engineers. We know that large broad occupational groups are needed. We are also making efforts for higher education institutions to provide an extra budget stimulus to improve the quality of education. In particular, it concerns the possibility of more teacher-led time. It is a way not least in our teacher training that we believe will allow more people to pass the teacher training when they enter. This is something we need to work even more intensively on.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-285	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. On February 1, next year, the Finnish Immigration Service has decided to throw out 70 high school young people on the street in Halmstad. Prior to this decision, the Migration Agency promised to look at the consequences for the individual young people and for Halmstad Municipality. The question is, therefore, whether it is possible to find 70 homes for young people in three months without any support in Halmstad. When even young people with good prospects cannot get an apartment, the answer to that question is simple. It is simply impossible. But that question was never asked to the municipality even though it was promised to do just that. The consequences of this are obvious. The entire cost and responsibility will end up in the municipality's lap. My question to the government is therefore: Is it really a single municipality that should take full responsibility both for the economy and for obtaining housing and not the state?
i-2a17eebd4254850f-289	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has taken a huge responsibility for many who have fled from war and conflict. We have received them and must, of course, ensure that they are given the best conditions to contribute to our society. Of course, municipalities should receive adequate compensation for the costs they have. In the 2020 budget, we contribute EUR 5 billion in general contributions to municipalities and county councils, and EUR 500 million goes to particularly socio-economically vulnerable areas. We give another 80 million to municipalities that have received many new arrivals. In the longer term, we are convinced that young people established in a municipality will become an economic asset for that municipality. However, the state contributes in many ways to making it easier for the municipalities. Of course, a large part of the responsibility lies with the municipality, but the state also helps.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-292	Mr President, I would like to The EU's long-term budget is a highly topical issue that we are closely following. There is no doubt that the Member States are far apart. Many are the countries that want to see an increased budget with more spending and greater commitments. In addition, votes are raised for the discounts that some major net contributors, such as Sweden, have had to disappear. At home, many are concerned about whether our EU contribution will increase significantly. Sweden's line is that we do not want to see a massive increase in the levy exceeding 1% of gross national income. I am convinced that the government is pushing this line clearly in the negotiations, and I know that Sweden also has the support of other Member States. I therefore wonder whether Minister Dahlgren could give a brief picture of the state of play in the negotiations on the EU's long-term budget.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-295	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Pia Nilsson, for the question! If you are going to report the state of negotiations in one minute, you have to speak quickly. However, I can say that the differences between the Member States of the Union on this issue have become clearer this autumn. I do not think anyone really thinks it will be possible – as we had set ourselves for a while – to come to a conclusion before the end of the year. It doesn't seem to be in the cards. We have a strong group of countries that safeguard agricultural policy and even want to increase what the Commission has proposed. A week ago we had a meeting with the friends of cohesion policy in Prague, which requires more money for the Structural Funds. We have a group of countries that dislike this with discounts, which among others Sweden benefits from. We ourselves argue very hard that we have to correct the mouth after the lunch. It must be a budget that does not go over 1% of gross national income, and we must retain the rebates that we need for reasons of fairness. We do this because we want to keep the Swedish fee down, and we do so under the mandate of the Swedish Parliament.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-299	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Secretary of Defense regarding Gävle Airport. The Swedish Armed Forces have submitted a late statement to Gävle Municipality. Gävle Municipality intends to close Gävle Airport on December last. The Swedish Armed Forces have presented a sharp letter opposing the rendering of Rörberg Airport unusable. It is written that due to its geographical location, infrastructure and capacity, the airport is a unique resource for the units that use it. There are no alternative airports that can replace the operation of Rörberg airport. It is therefore important from a military regional perspective to maintain the possibility of using Rörberg Airport. The Swedish Armed Forces concludes by stating that if the municipality were to close the airport, there would be a negative impact on the Swedish Armed Forces' operational capabilities.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-303	Mr President, I would like to I'm not the one to go in and review municipal decisions. What I can say from Beckman's information is that I will make sure that I get the information that is available on the matter and is officially published. I will take that initiative in relation to the question and see what is written in the letters. You can have many views on how different airports in Sweden can be used by the Swedish Armed Forces. Civil airports can be used in a crisis situation when it comes to the dissemination of various types of resources within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces. They can thus be an important operational asset. But as I said, I will inform myself more deeply about the Gävle case.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-306	Mr President, I would like to We are seeing today an increasing number of jobs gathering in and around our big cities while missing housing right there. With a functioning public transport system, areas within reasonable commuting distances would ease housing pressure. Unfortunately, this is not working today. One of the problems with getting robustness and an attractive timetable is that we have priority rules with criteria for allocating train paths that weigh different journeys with rail traffic towards each other. With today's criteria, it is so unfortunate that a knotty commuter train with study and work commuters weighs feather light towards a long-distance train with far fewer passengers. If we could have rewritten the directives into the priority rules so that short work trips are given priority, we could quickly have found a concrete solution to the housing shortage in large cities. My question for this reason is: does the government realise the problem of the rules of priority, and if so, are you willing to work towards a change in them?
i-2a17eebd4254850f-310	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, AnnAnn-Sofie Lifvenhage, for an important question! Housing construction, housing supply, public transport and sustainable travel are priorities for the government. I note that since the government took office in 2014, the last term of office, we have a record build, partly as a result of the investment aid that we have put in place. We also have a historic investment in rail and railway maintenance. I am thinking not least of the news that has come today that we are clarifying the responsibility for maintaining the railways. The specific question that the honourable Member is asking about the prioritisation of different commuting means is something that my colleague, the Minister for Infrastructure, should look at and which he will certainly also look at. We are of the opinion that public transport is the most important thing if we are to have sustainable cities and meet climate targets.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-314	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Higher Education and Research, Matilda Ernkrans. I would like to start by saying that I really appreciate the Minister's commitment to Sweden being a leading knowledge and research nation. Sweden ranks as one of Europe's most innovative countries in sectors such as steel, forests and vehicles. But when it comes to food, we first rank in 14th place. So we have development potential here. Research has a very important role to play in achieving the food strategy's goals of, among other things, a sustainable food chain.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-317	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Malin Larsson, for an important question! Research policy is something that we have really started work on continuing to develop. In the autumn of 2020, I hope to be able to come back to the House with a proposal for a decision which I hope many parties will support. This should be a research policy where Sweden continues to be a leading knowledge and research nation. That is simply how we have decided to build this country: more of knowledge and more of innovation. This also applies to food research. It is clear that if we are to switch to more sustainability, we must be able to build a stronger society that provides jobs, gives people health and takes advantage of what is our strengths. One of our strengths is, of course, that Sweden is a good country when it comes to sustainable food production. Exactly how and in what way this will look like, we will have to come back with. The process has only just begun.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-322	Mr President, I would like to I am thinking of the situation of women and children in Afghanistan. Despite the fact that we have excellent staff on the ground who are trained in Resolution 1325 and who are also training on the ground in this area, the situation looks pretty terrible. Many women and children still fall victim. There were over 300 dead children at mid 2019, which is in fact contrary to all human rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I therefore have a question for the Minister of Defence. More of the same is not always the solution. Does the government intend to do something further or to take any further action within Sweden's international efforts to increase gender equality and improve the situation for women and children in Afghanistan?
i-2a17eebd4254850f-325	Mr President, I would like to Maternal mortality has fallen in Afghanistan. Women have gained a better position in Afghanistan's society. There have been very positive developments in the area of health care in Afghanistan. The international effort has had a good impact on Afghan society at all. Then, of course, there are deep security problems, and at times it has also deteriorated. At the moment, the situation is quite acute. The Swedish Parliament will decide to continue our efforts in Afghanistan, which has been going on for many years. I think it would be quite harmful if we were to withdraw. Sweden also has extensive humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. One of the points in our work is to improve the situation of children and women. This work will continue within the broad humanitarian effort also made possible by the military operation being carried out.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-328	Mr President, I would like to When there have been over 11 000 complaints about children in Malmö, when one in four children is growing up in poverty and every five children leave school without upper secondary school qualifications, when there is twice as much risk of being shot in Malmö as in Stockholm and when it feels like something fundamentally is changing in society, then you wonder: Why does the government do nothing special? Why doesn't the government do anything extraordinary? Why do you not do what is required and use your power position to create the equal conditions that you want to talk about so badly? We received a letter yesterday from the Malmö police. It describes the hell you experience and feel when you get to the place and find a child with a bullet hole in it. Isabella Lövin! As Deputy Prime Minister, you owe Malmö residents an answer, at least an approach to salvation. Why don't you do more?
i-2a17eebd4254850f-331	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Noria Manouchi, for a very important issue, although I do not agree that the government is doing nothing. We see violence going down at an age, and that is totally unacceptable. We need to work to ensure that children go to school and build a future, not leave school and ruin their futures and others by entering gang crime. The police have now set up a special event to do three things, especially in Malmö: get the most criminal out of the streets, make sure that the weapons disappear from the streets and ensure that there are exit strategies for young people who are involved in gang crime so that they can build a future. Then today, for example, the government has said that we will be able to use a kind of inter-obligation for LVU in which, against the wishes of parents, young people can be helped when they are entering gang crime or are subjected to honour violence.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-336	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist on the geopolitical consequences of climate change around the Arctic. The climate threat is now finally becoming clear to all of us. With rising temperatures and melting glaciers emerge new fairways, and it becomes an even stronger focus on our arctic area. Against this background, my question is: how does the Minister of Defence argue about the possible geopolitical consequences of climate change, especially in the Arctic?
i-2a17eebd4254850f-339	Mr President, I would like to After all, climate change is a reality and needs to be addressed in a broad field. The development we are seeing in the Arctic region is a continued investment in military capabilities on the Kola Peninsula, the opening of various old bases from the Soviet era, an increased exercise activity and also an increased operational activity in the area. It is clear that we have a situation in which security policy questions are also raised at their head and where there are ambitions to mark in different ways in this area. Climate change therefore has an effect. They can also open the door to making it easier to gain interest in exploiting natural resources and the like, which in turn can also turn into security policy aspects. But we see an increased interest in security policy in the area.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-342	Mr President, I would like to We should be proud of our voluntary defence organisations – the defence trainers, the Voluntary Air Force, the Marine Guard Corps and others – and their efforts. They play an important and central role in both military and civil defence. They also contribute to Sweden's emergency preparedness. The Defence Committee's report Resistance highlights an increased role for voluntary defence organisations, not least in the future supply of personnel in total defence, and that this must be done in dialogue with voluntary defence organisations. The Defence Committee believes that the Government should give the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Civil Protection Agency a joint mission to review this. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Defence: Has the government given the Swedish Armed Forces and MSB a joint mandate to carry out such a review together with the voluntary defence organisations to strengthen total defence in accordance with the Defence Committee's proposals in this area?
i-2a17eebd4254850f-345	Mr President, I would like to As far as the work of the Defence Committee is concerned, this will be dealt with in the deliberations that will now take place between the political parties with a view to a forthcoming bill. It will form the basis for the various proposals that will be made on how to relate to missions, reviews and various types of initiatives. There is broad agreement in the Swedish Parliament that voluntary defence organisations are of great importance. It is also witnessed in connection with various types of crisis situations, such as the fires that occurred in 2018, where large efforts were made by non-governmental organisations, both with military support and from the civilian side. I see this as an extremely important resource. I also visited the Home Guard in Sunne this weekend and took part in the extensive and important activities of the Home Guard as an important part of the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-348	Mr President, I would like to The question is to the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action. The tax on motor homes is now greatly increased due to the way in which the new calculation model for emissions is implemented in Sweden. Only Sweden will tax mobile homes in this way. It is the models in the middle segment, the most popular models, that will get the highest increase of 30 000 – 35 000 SEK per year. This will affect the Swedes who have followed the invitation to vacation in Sweden. It is an unwarranted tax that sets the hook for tourism, employment and growth. The government, led by the Green Party, creates a penalty tax on motor homes. The government has the opportunity to act to ensure that the tax on emissions is proportionate and reasonable. So my question is, Mr President: is the Minister going to do something to remove the penalty tax on motor homes?
i-2a17eebd4254850f-351	Mr President, I would like to The reform we have carried out called bonus – malus is a reform that is self-financing. It is very good, because the owners of the most release cars have to pay for the benefit of the least release cars. This is absolutely necessary. If we are to overcome the climate crisis, we must remove fossil fuels. As the honourable Member points out, this reform has had an impact on the most fuel consuming vehicles, and that is where the motor homes belong. However, the large tax increase described by the honourable Member will hardly be reflected in reality, since motor homes are usually set aside for a large part of the year and you only pay taxes for the time you drive your vehicle.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-353	Mr President, I would like to The 20th century was an era when the use of natural resources and materials grew unprecedentedly. Material consumption is estimated to double by 2060 if we do not bring about changes and use our resources more efficiently. A transition from a linear to a circular economy requires a change in entire value chains and new business models. We need innovations, smarter production and more sustainable consumption patterns. Innovation power exists among Swedish companies, but in order to dare to invest in new technologies or business models, there must be a clear demand for recycled materials. One step can be for public Sweden to set more ambitious targets for the procurement of recycled materials. How does the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action view this, and how does the government in general work to promote the circular economy?
i-2a17eebd4254850f-357	Mr President, I would like to There must be an end to the buying and throwing society that we have built up. It is far too cheap with virgin raw materials, not least plastic. We must ensure circularity in this area. One way to do this is to increase the demand for recycled materials. Different financial incentives can make things better. Panting on mobile phones, batteries and other electronics is something that we agree on in the January agreement, as well as a product passport for gadgets. One should be able to indicate where they come from, what they contain for materials and also how they should be repaired to further benefit a sustainable and circular economy. The public procurement instrument that Marlene Burwick is working on is hugely powerful. We would like to look at how to tighten it further so that we can get a circular economy going even faster, in line with the strategy that we are about to develop.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-362	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. Getting into a long-awaited education is a dream for many. One chance today is to take the college exam. A lot of people call it a second chance. Last year, as many as 100,000 people took the university test. Unfortunately, there have been several cases of organised fraud in recent years. The right answers have been given against payment. Of course, that must not be the case. To remedy this, the government set up an investigation on 23 August 2018 to see what can be done to curb the cheating. So it was more than a year ago, and the cheating can still continue. We need to speed up the investigation. The administrative law says that you can lose your place if you get it through cheating. However, you can't get rid of the points you earned when you come in after cheating. Now there have been partial suggestions from the investigation on how to deal with the cheating. We are talking about radio wave detectors and body visas when entering and leaving. Perhaps there will be further suggestions. My question to the Government is whether the Government considers this to be a good proposal and whether these measures are sufficient to tackle all forms of cheating. Or does the government still think that you should remove the university test?
i-WfXVRyZTsjPDGS5fRQZDLf	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Marie-Louise Sandström. There's never been a question of removing the university test. There is a strong commitment on the part of the government and myself to ensure that the university test has the legitimacy that it should have so that it remains a second chance for those who perhaps did not really get high school to work all the way and need the chance to get higher education through the university test. I want to be clear about that, and I think it is really bad to insinuate something else. With regard to new initiatives to get to grips with the fraud in the university test, the investigation that has been on the table has submitted a partial report on body and radio wave detectors. It has been out for a referral, and we are currently analysing the proposals. I was very quick to add an additional directive to this investigation to also look at how we handle those who have taken points although they have cheated their way into their place. The same investigation is looking at this, and soon we will have a basis for it too. I am prepared to proceed with those proposals if they work.
i-2a17eebd4254850f-372	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin. When the Committee on Economic Affairs visited Canada earlier this autumn, the forestry industry there specifically raised the issue of spruce bark drills, which it sees as a destroyer of forests and the fibre value of timber but also as a risk factor because dry forests increase the amount of forest fires. Sweden currently has 800 000 hectares of forest protected in nature reserves. These reserves need care and care in order not to become the home of the spruce bark. My question to Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin, is: Does the Minister think that the Swedish state adequately protects its forests against spruce bark and thus against fires?
i-VeLDWTXM86fUcDtB2rHiNx	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Olsson! Let's think back to the summer of 2018 and the extreme heat then, which led to forest fires that we've never seen before. It is the effects of the drought that has made it easier for spruce bark to spread to Sweden. We have seen that large areas in the Czech Republic and Central Europe have had very dry and warm summers over the last four or five years. It has had disastrous consequences and has not acted on the attacks in time. Monocultures are most vulnerable to attack, and we have large areas of monoculture. However, we have made great efforts to ensure that the trees infested are removed. It's important. The Forest Board has made an inventory. For forest owners there are of course insurances that they can take out against attacks of spruce bark, fire and storm damage. But it is important that we also attack the root causes of this happening.
