i-5025096418ecfd00-5	Mr President, I would like to AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me if I see any responsibility for the development in Sweden where the business community is forced to spend billions of money due to crime and what measures I intend to take during the term of office to bring down crime so that companies will want to continue working in places for jobs and growth. The government takes a very serious view of crime affecting entrepreneurs. It can be devastating for the companies and individuals affected, and it harms Sweden's business climate. Sweden should be a safe country to live in, and it is therefore unacceptable for entrepreneurs to be concerned about the risk of being exposed to crime. The government has taken a number of measures to ensure that traders are able to carry out their duties safely. A prerequisite is a strong judicial system and an accessible police officer. Strengthening police work and enabling more police officers to fight crime and increase security are priorities for the government. This is why the government has decided to invest heavily in police operations with the aim of increasing the number of employees in the Police Authority by 10 000 by 2024. We have pushed forward legislative measures to improve the capacity of our authorities to fight crime. A new camera surveillance team entered into force on 1 August 2018. The law means, among other things, that it will be easier for the police and municipalities to apply for and obtain permission for camera surveillance in places that are victims of crime or where the threat picture for other reasons is elevated. The new law also means that the general obligation previously imposed on monitoring has been abolished, which means that camera surveillance in stores, for example, will now be possible without authorisation. Criminal measures have also been taken. On 1 July 2017, amendments were made to the legislation regarding the crime of vandalism. Among other things, the scale of severe damage was tightened to prison for a minimum of six months and a maximum of six years. At the same time, the minimum penalty for, among other things, gross illegal threats, aggravated robbery and serious blackmail was increased. We must both fight crime and combat the causes of crime. The government has therefore invested in crime prevention and developed the first national crime prevention programme in 20 years with common objectives in all policy areas. Government authorities, municipalities, civil society and, not least, the business community must all contribute to the prevention of crime. For those young people who commit crimes, the reactions must be clear, and those who are most active in crime must be removed from our streets. Efforts to prevent our young people from getting involved in crime are important, as is reducing access to alcohol and drugs. Support for those who want to leave the criminal life behind must be developed, and we will therefore set up a national exit programme. In addition to long-term law enforcement and crime prevention work, problems in vulnerable areas of crime need to be addressed from several quarters and through joint action by the whole of society. In particular, measures are needed to reduce the social gaps which form the basis of these problems. Jobs, good housing, a good school and an inclusive society are fundamental to reverse developments.
i-5025096418ecfd00-12	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Justice, for your answer. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has carried out a preliminary study of the direct costs to the business community and has not included the financial sector. They have seen that the cost of crime can be estimated at a figure of 55 billion. This figure does not include the direct costs of measures to be taken as an entrepreneur in order to put an end to the crimes that have been committed. Let's talk about security guards, alarms, security cameras, dogs, etc. Businesses and businesses are affected, and this affects others as well. It also affects growth in terms of loss of productivity and lower investment, so that money can be spent on preventive measures. It's serious. There will be a great deal of money going to be spent in this area, because it is increasing all the time. It also came out in the answer that it is serious. One concept used is a devastating one. You can add more concepts to what you want to use. One could be a tragic one when companies and individuals are affected. I agree with the Minister's description that it harms Sweden and the business community. A few weeks ago I visited a town in southern Sweden. It is a place that through its history has had a few industries that you have lived in. People have had their jobs and livelihood there. With a transformation of society, the town has lost industry. There have been changes that have made the resort vulnerable to closure. On top of that, there is crime. It is of different kinds in different places. A foreign motorcycle gang has put its claws in this very community. This means that companies are subjected to crime all the time. Other crime is based on the one that already exists from gangs and gangs that have established themselves. Entrepreneurs are considering moving their business, and some have already moved. As a result, this society is facing major problems. When things go the wrong way, it does not just affect society. It also affects the local people. It's work that goes away. You're witnessing a society that's going to be empty. There used to be life and movement on playgrounds and out on streets and squares. When you walk around in the evenings and nights it is now completely empty. It's a description from the locals. Now the Minister has said that there will be camera surveillance as a partial solution. But every other dealer has been the victim of crime in the last few months. It is a headline that the Swedish Commerce Federation has. They describe that the number of crimes affecting the shops is at high levels. By December, one out of every three stores had been stolen, and by measuring over a month, one out of every four stores was exposed to threatening behavior. By the end of 2018, almost every other shop, 44 per cent, had been the victim of a crime in recent times. When the Committee on Economic Affairs debated before Christmas, the issue of criminality was raised. It was then said in the debate that it was excessive. That is not something the Minister can refer to. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice how seriously he views the effects of criminal activities on business and society.
i-5025096418ecfd00-21	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that it is an interesting angle that Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has in the interpellation, that is, the link between crime and growth. Now one can say in itself that the development does not exactly support the thesis she has. What we have seen in recent years is a high growth rate in Sweden. During our term of office, the growth rate has been twice as high as it was during the last period of the alliance government. It's usually like that when Social Democrats rule. Growth, public finances and unemployment both look much better than in bourgeois times. We have had twice as much growth in recent years in relation to when the bourgeois ruled. The issue is the connection to crime. I agree that there may be a connection to crime. Crime can affect growth rates. The question is how large a scale is. I have also taken note of the Swedish Enterprise Survey, which went out to 20 000 companies to ask them about this. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson referred to it earlier. The response rate for this survey was 12 per cent, i.e. 88 per cent of enterprises did not respond. To draw some far-reaching conclusions from a survey with such a low response rate and try to calculate figures for which the cost of crime could be very difficult, I would say. Regarding some of the crimes raised by Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, there is a problem. It's about stealing, shoplifting, burglary and other things. However, I also think that the statistics on the number of reported offences that we have seen precisely with regard to these categories of offences in recent years should be consulted. In fact, the number of reported thefts in small thefts in stores has decreased. The number of reported burglaries in stores has decreased sharply. The number of store robberies both with and without firearms has decreased. I think you should have that picture too. This does not mean, of course, that this is not a problem, but the other way around. It is clear that when we see this type of crime, we must also act against it. We have done a lot there: we have tightened the penalties for almost all the serious violent crimes, including aggravated robbery, gross blackmail and gross illegal threats. We have tightened the penalties for serious gun crimes so that we can now also arrest anyone who walks around with weapons in the city. We are doing this on a scale that we have never done before. We do it so much that we now fill up prisons and detention centres. We have 100% occupancy both in custody and in prisons. In the time of the Moderates it was quite empty both in prisons and in prisons, for you simply caught too few criminals. Now we're in a different position. Those who used to walk around with guns in town are now in the cage, and that's exactly where they're supposed to be. We are also making major investments in the police. We've doubled the rate of training in police training, and we're starting new police training. There are courses both in Malmö and in Borås from this six months onwards. We are working to raise the number of employees by another 10,000 by 2024. It is, of course, long-term work in some respects to bring crime down. We must ensure that we fight crime as such with harsher penalties, increased camera surveillance and more police officers. But we also need to work to prevent crime in different ways. That is why we have launched a programme, the first national bridge prevention programme in 20 years. Of course, we continue to follow this closely, and we continue to make the efforts that need to be made to break the trend to the extent that it needs to be done.
i-5025096418ecfd00-31	Mr President, I would like to It is always, the Minister of Justice, a discussion that ends up in the fact that it is somehow the bourgeois's fault. It's really interesting to have that aspect instead of looking forward and see what you do yourself. You have had four years now and a long-standing Social Democratic rule before that. Let us start with the growth rate and the economic. It can be said that there is a boom and recession, and for the time being we are in a boom. But eventually we will certainly enter a recession, because that is how the cycles go. If you take this aspect, it is not how much growth we have as I am talking about, but I am talking about the growth we do not get because of crime. This is what it is all about. It's about the gap in between and what you could get. That could be better numbers than it is. One can of course have the argument put forward by Morgan Johansson, but it does not hold that far. A survey is, of course, only part of a whole. But both the Minister, surely, and at least I myself am visiting companies and trying to find out what it is like for different industries and what measures they are allowed to take. There have been, and are, many crimes that allow both small and large individual companies to spend resources on combating crime. I visited Borlänge a while ago. I have been told by the Swedish Commerce Federation that it is one of the places in the country that is being pointed out because you have problems with theft, burned cars and so on. It means that on the local level, in the middle of town, you can't have your business. They are threatened by having to close down. Morgan Johansson says it's so amazing now and that everyone is behind bars. But it does not correspond with the reality, so I think we can talk about the picture that exists instead. It's good that people are locked up and crime is being prosecuted. But that is not the reality that is out there, and I do not think it is perceived as peace and joy now. On the contrary, there is much to do. Serious crime has reached new record levels. Violence has increased in scale and severity. The use of firearms and explosives has also increased in society. More people are exposed to crime, and more people are clearly worried about being subjected to crime. At the same time, confidence in the judiciary has declined over a ten-year period. We also get statistics that crime is not reported. This is serious, because it means that the figures from SCB do not show the right facts. That's what happens when there are people who don't want to and don't dare report crimes. We need to ask ourselves how we can change this. If the statistics show that there are no crimes committed in a locality or there is very little crime, but in reality it is the opposite – how should we respond to it? We can't use the statistics to solve it. This is very important. The Minister writes in his reply that the Government has developed an initiative on crime prevention. I would like to highlight an example from the reality of a municipality in southern Sweden, where field assistants talk about how children and young people only laugh at them in the evenings and nights when they are out. The young enter the crime to be stopped and prevented. And in this municipality there are no reports. It looks like you have much less crime than you have, and it is a serious development that the crimes do not appear to exist. But it is also told in the municipality that you have had work with the police before, and you can have it again if you can clear this out. In a number of weeks, an anonymous police officer on the scene might not be able to perform miracles, but still stop this and straighten it out. If the police are there today, they're known, or they're not there. It is important to use the resources available.
i-5025096418ecfd00-40	Mr President, I would like to I'm not saying it's all the bourgeois's fault. I only note that growth is always higher when we rule than when the bourgeois rule. This has been the case for the last 50 years. Every time there has been a change of government and you have ruled, growth has been lower than when we have ruled. Of course, it can be a coincidence, but that is still the tendency. No, not everyone's behind bars. But there are far more there now than it did a few years ago. This is because we have both tightened the penalties and the possibilities of arrest and started law enforcement in a way that did not happen before. We had seven years in a row of falling results in the police. The number of pre-trials completed reported to prosecutors decreased seven years in a row. Then we did the major reorganisation of the police, and since then we have seen a development in which the police deliver more results than they did in the past. And this will increase further as police activity expands. We are now back in over 20 000 police officers again, and we have doubled the rate of training so that it is now about 1 300 newly trained per year. In the time of the bourgeois it was low at about 600 – 700 a year, so we have doubled the pace. We are expanding both police activities in terms of the number of police officers and civil servants. This points to, and we are working towards, the possibility of 10 000 more employees by 2024. What else do we need to do? That is, of course, a great deal. I believe that, in addition to the pressure of punishment and the expansion of police training, and in addition to the fact that we now also need to expand the prison system so that we have a place to put those we arrest, we need to do more in terms of faster prosecution. So we need to ensure that, for example, young people who are found in shops with stealing things get a very quick feedback on this. We now have a pilot project in northern Stockholm with faster prosecution of, among other things, this type of crime. The police are arresting anyone who is a suspect and can complete the investigation already on site. It is also possible to state the date on which the person must appear at the district court to be convicted of the crime he is suspected of having committed. This means that we have reduced the processing time from having been on average 22 weeks from arresting a person until he or she gets his or her sentence to now be between 2 and 6 weeks in this attempt, which is conducted in northern Stockholm. We will have a fuller evaluation of the Crime Prevention Council on 1 April, but I very much believe this. Not only should you resort to a little harder action when needed, but you should also resort to faster action so that you get a quick feedback that society is much faster than before to mark what is acceptable and what is not. In addition, an investigation proposal is currently in the process of being consulted on how to tackle the systematic thefts, with which we have a concern, not least in trade. The investigation also includes a proposal for a special access ban. It is about people who have systematically engaged in stealing things in a store, for example. The trader should then be able to report this and say that this person should no longer have access to my store. There is an order in the proposal for how to achieve such a ban on access. It is an issue that is being referred, and I know that trade has been looking forward to such proposals for a long time. Of course, we need to do more to intervene against crimes that affect traders in different ways.
i-5025096418ecfd00-49	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for those answers, Minister. I am pleased that we have the same views on what should be done. It's just that in the meantime, you have to wait out there. That the police deliver is good. The reverse would have been terrible. It's good that things are moving forward. With regard to the training of police officers, in 2006 the bourgeois government got – if we are now to return to the somewhat tiresome discussion about who did what – to start training policemen because there were no policemen when they took over. It may be that you have to clean up after financial crises and things like that, and it costs. Here, however, it has been handled well in order to be able to move forward, so you have still had to take over a good opportunity to move forward. Serious crime-related problems, yes, they exist. According to the police, there are 5,000 criminal actors and 200 criminal gangs in Sweden. Crime affects our residents and Sweden's 61 000 vulnerable areas particularly hard. Skåne, from which we ourselves come, is the gateway to Europe. The single most important crime prevention measure is to destroy gang crime in our locations. What I describe about how to work with the police comes from those who work in the field. It is not short-term, but one must take care of it and stop it while preventing it. There we fully agree that civil society, the school etcetera should go in to stop recruitment. This is happening now, and it can be done without legislation. There must be pressure so that we all make sure that society can function. Drugs are also a major part of this. The Minister will be happy to say something about that. The inflow is large, and it is available in all locations. It is also the gateway to the crime that then affects traders.
i-5025096418ecfd00-55	Mr President, I would like to I have set out the measures that we have taken and that we will take. We're continuing to expand police operations. We continue to tighten up some penalties that we need to tighten up. We work with faster prosecution so that you get a quick feedback. We are also reviewing legislation on systematic theft. We have a proposal for a referral dealing with access bans. We will also tighten the penalties for violations of the law, that is to say when attacking plaintiffs and witnesses with a view to attacking the rule of law as such. Society must look at this particularly harshly. We are also working on a proposal for an intervention in the case of young people entering crime. Here, for example, we want to make possible what we call weekend separation or weekend detention, a measure where you simply have to stay at home on Friday and Saturday evenings. This should be monitored with a anklet and is another sanction option for some of these young people who may otherwise be in town, commit crimes and are entering a more systematic crime. As I said, we will also come back with such proposals. We are, of course, following this very closely. We are keen to continue to fight both the crimes and the causes of the crimes.
i-5025096418ecfd00-58	Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson has asked me what initiatives I will take to tighten up the legislation so that animal rights can be combated. He has also asked me whether I will take further measures to combat animal rights, such as the creation of a specific criminal code for animal rights-related crime. Let me begin by underlining that we cannot accept that, in order to achieve political ends, someone destroys or steals someone else's property or, at worst, harms other people. This has no place in a democracy. We cannot tolerate people being subjected to threats and harassment. Society must work on these issues on a broad front. Moreover, those who commit criminal acts of this kind against farmers, for example, jeopardise the purposeful work that serious organisations and farmers are doing to strengthen animal welfare. Traders must, of course, be able to carry out their activities without being exposed to harassment, threats, vandalism or other criminal acts. The Government has taken a number of measures to ensure that the type of crime to which farmers, among other things, are subject is effectively dealt with by the judiciary, both in terms of legislation and in terms of resources. This is, for example, a new camera surveillance team that entered into force on 1 August 2018, where the general authorisation requirement previously applied to camera surveillance has been abolished. The new Camera Protection Act means that camera surveillance in connection with, among other things, agricultural activities will now be able to be carried out without permission. Furthermore, on 1 July 2017, the minimum sentence for grossly illegal threats was tightened to nine months in prison. The same date also made changes to the law on the crime of vandalism. Among other things, the scale of severe damage was tightened to prison for a minimum of six months and a maximum of six years. In addition, the previous and current government's efforts at the Police Authority are central. Effective law enforcement requires resources, and this effort must, of course, benefit the whole country. The government is determined to carry out the expansion of police employees announced so that the Police Authority can increase by 10,000 employees to 2024. It will enable the Agency to increase both its capacity and its efficiency. The police authorities must be able to maintain their activities throughout the country, both in the big city and in sparsely populated areas. The introduction of new crime codes is not done by the government but is handled by the Crime Prevention Council, Brå. The criminal codes are reviewed annually in consultation with the judicial authorities. The criminal code system is currently designed so that it is not possible to introduce only a criminal code for animal law-related crime, but it would require a large number of criminal codes. However, it is important that a police report is as clear and detailed as possible about the circumstances of the crime in order to increase the searchability of police reports. The Minister for Home Affairs has spoken to the Police Department about this type of crime in order to get more information on how the agency works. During my time as Minister of Home Affairs and Justice, I spoke to the LRF in May 2018, partly in January of this year. I know that the Minister for Home Affairs intends to maintain a dialogue with the LRF and other stakeholders on this issue. I am closely following developments in this area and, of course, I am prepared to take action if necessary.
i-5025096418ecfd00-66	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister of Justice for the strong terms he uses to describe his attitude and that of the government towards animal activism. It is described as terror, and terror is the right word to describe what traders, farmers, hunters, government employees and now also researchers employed by universities and pharmaceutical companies are exposed to – nowadays almost daily. Social change and attitudes to activities where animals are used in human service are obviously influenced by the debate that is taking place on lifestyles and values in society. That is a good thing, but I would like to see sense and balance and strong responsibility from the authorities, politicians and organisations. There is much to be desired here. It would be liberating if the serious animal rights organisations really distanced themselves from the intrusions made on private land to protest and document. Such action, or lack of action, sends out signals to terrorists that it is okay to break the law and that the purposes sometimes justify the means. The signals from the government and parliament are also important. However, I am less satisfied with the Government's ambition. I had hoped that it would have moved further on this issue. The non-answer to the question of what initiatives the government intends to take to tighten up legislation sends out signals that it either does not want or is unable to do anything, and if so, one wonders why. Are there perhaps conflicts of interest to be taken into account within the government? On the question of whether the government will take further action, the Minister points out that the introduction of crime codes is the responsibility of the Brå Authority and not of the Government. It's true. However, the problem remains that the police cannot coordinate or keep statistics and use it as a means of preventing and spot-marking the most frequent perpetrators. Mr President, I would like to I assume that in his contacts with the LRF, the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Justice have become aware of the needs that exist and will take action because it is necessary. Spring is approaching, and then the public will be given access to agriculture throughout Sweden to attest cow release. Thousands of people do this, often on May 1st – a calendar crash, unfortunately. It also attracts demonstrators whom the farmer and organisers must keep track of and ensure that they have proper permits and do not carry out their demonstrations on private land. On the list of laws that need to be tightened up and investigated, I would like to add it to the list of illegal trespasses and home invasions so that the landowner and demonstrators know what is allowed and the police are given a basis to intervene against, for example, protesters who are on a common road that passes across a courtyard or appear masked and hold up placards near families with children who want to see something fun and get to know all the good things about Swedish agriculture – who have to follow the strictest animal welfare laws in the world. This also applies to camera surveillance, which, as the Minister points out, has several advantages and was introduced for other purposes. However, camera surveillance may only take place within your own property or on land and buildings that you own, as far as I understand. On a farm with many stables, pastures, courtyards and roads that cross the area, it can be difficult to get a functioning camera surveillance. Finally, as far as the police are concerned, we agree that there will be 10,000 more police employees by 2024. It is part of the January Agreement. But the important thing, I think, is what they do for work, what they can prioritise and what tools they have to work effectively, coordinated and preventively. All of this, Mr President, falls back on the possibility of being able to use the crime codes, a standardization and a high degree of detail in the reports, as the Minister points out, as a basis for conducting statistics so that the nature of the crime, the perpetrator, the systematics and the damage caused to the victims can be identified. Unfortunately, this is missing today. The Center Party will be up on this, and I will continue to draw the government's attention to this issue.
i-5025096418ecfd00-77	Mr President, I would like to I do not think there is any doubt that we all agree that the judiciary must be strict about this type of crime. We cannot accept that farmers are being harassed in such a way that they may even have to consider quitting their activities. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. As I have pointed out, we have done a great deal already. We have tightened the penalties, we have extended the legislation and we are expanding police operations. We now have tougher penalties for the gross illegal threats, we have tougher penalties for serious damage and we have tightened the penalties for arbitrary proceedings– it has been part of the kind of crime in which people, as a protest measure, chain themselves to different places where they are not allowed to be. The penalties for such arbitrary procedures have also been tightened. We have also increased the possibility of camera monitoring of, for example, our own farm. We also made the big effort on the police. We have doubled the rate of education, we have new police colleges in Malmö and Borås, we have more money for police operations than ever before and we actually have more employees in the police business overall than probably ever before. It's increased very strongly now. We will expand further, as I said, and the target is 10 000 more employees by 2024. Then it is important for us to point out that this effort must, of course, benefit the whole country so that there will also be increased police presence in the countryside. It goes without saying that we should work for it. But I also realize that we need to do even more. As I said, I met with representatives of the LRF no later than January. The LRF then submitted a list of what they thought should be addressed. I am sure that Ola Johansson has also received that list of things that LRF highlights as important. In any case, what Ola Johansson highlights in this debate is about the same as what the LRF has run in different ways and which has also been presented to the government. I have immersed myself in some of the questions. What I have immersed myself most in is legislation on illegal trespassing and home peace crimes. Now, those of you who listen to this debate are getting their ears pierced, because now there is actually news. These rules of unlawful interference date back to the 1960s, perhaps they are even older, because they came into existence and were passed on when we adopted the Criminal Code in 1962. They're archaic in that sense. The LRF has pointed out that, for example, it is not clear whether it is illegal to enter a farm where there is no fence or fence. There is a lack of clarity in the legislation, and I agree that it is a shortcoming. There is also no guidance on the circumstances to be taken into account when considering whether there is a gross infringement. There is also a lack of legislation, I would say. My message today is that I am prepared to review the legislation on illegal interference – the link to the home peace crime is also there – so that it becomes sharper than it is today and so that it becomes clearer where the border should go between illegal intrusion of the standard level and when it should be considered as gross illegal intrusion. Such an investigation should be carried out, and so I am prepared to go to the LRF and also Ola Johansson on this issue.
i-5025096418ecfd00-85	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is pleasing and honoured to be the first person to receive this news about reviewing the law on unlawful interference. This is exactly the situation that I describe when I tell you about what happens when, for example, cow droppings or other types of demonstrations. There is another reality as well, and it was something that I experienced a few weeks ago in a TV studio where events related to animal experiments at the University of Gothenburg were discussed. It is also telling how much emotion these debates arouse and how difficult it can be for people who are involved in societal research. I thought I'd mention it. After all, we are all in one way or another dependent on the pharmaceutical industry and health care being able to handle different conditions. This is an issue of attitude about how we view animals and animals in human service. I feel that there is a good basis for discussing this. The Minister of Justice also described punitive measures, and I had intended to mention this in my opening speech here. Punishment of illegal threats and vandalism is good, but I am afraid it is not enough to prevent such crime. I am afraid that the most activist and ruthless perpetrators will not be deterred by harsher penalties, at least as long as the risk of being caught is minimal. I am therefore, of course, grateful for the revision of the legislation on infringements, but it is also extremely important that the police have the opportunity to investigate and identify the nature of this crime. The debate on whether crime codes are the right way forward can be taken in another context. The government has the power to tell its authority what to do through regulatory letters. I understand that there is also a problem with the use of crime codes, but that is the purpose that is important. The Minister mentioned that there needs to be a higher quality of the notifications. You can wish you could. The resources for the police are, of course, extremely important, as well as emphasising that the perspective should be on the whole country. A colleague of mine described a situation in Norrland where a police car has to cover an area the size of Denmark. It shows how difficult it is to get 100% coverage throughout the country. The crimes may be committed more frequently elsewhere, but at the same time every person exposed to crime, regardless of where in the country she lives, should feel safe and secure. To be able to map this crime and use statistics as a way of keeping track of where the perpetrators are located, what they are planning to do and what individuals are involved and thus stay ahead of them is crucial to succeed in this. Then it is also important that society otherwise shows courage. These are, of course, committed people, and both in the LRF and in associations and business, there is a great and powerful commitment to food, food and animals. It is also important to have clear common positions on this type of activism and to take the debate in an objective manner and to create understanding on both sides.
i-5025096418ecfd00-94	Mr President, I would like to There is an ongoing dialogue between the Government Office, the Government and other political representatives and the Association of Interests, in this case the LRF. We are concerned that it will work well, so that we land right on these different issues. I highlighted discussions on illegal trespassing, home peace crimes and that we are prepared to review those rules in order to clarify what is really going on. I think there's a need for that. Of course, much else must also be done. Nevertheless, I believe that the penalties are an important signal from society to those who are in this way, about how strict we view this type of crime. It's important to mark it. But, of course, it must also be followed up by efforts on the judicial system so that you can really arrest the individuals involved. I know that the Minister for Home Affairs is having a dialogue with the police organisation and the police leadership on this particular issue. I know from the past that the Police Authority is centrally aware of the issue. They also have relatively good knowledge of the type of individuals and how many people are doing that way through their investigations and intelligence. It can certainly be further coordinated, but there is such knowledge. As far as crime codes are concerned, it is technically a rather difficult issue. Should they be introduced, as I said, it is not just a crime code. Then you have to wear it on all kinds of crimes that this could be about. It can be trespassing, assault, home peace crime, online hatred and arbitrary proceedings – a large number of crimes simply. In that case, each crime should be coded that way. We have exactly the same problem when we are sometimes faced with demands that hate crimes and crimes with honorary motives should have specific criminal codes. In that case, systems must also be created in which every crime it can be about is to be classified in that way. It is very difficult to do in such a way that it becomes practicable. The issue lies with the Crime Prevention Council. But the most important thing is simply to ensure that the police have the tools to carry out their investigations and possible surveys. Should the police need additional tools in terms of statistics, we must, of course, consider it. But perhaps it is not so much about how to solve things technically but about solving the issue itself. In view of the time we are living in, it is also important to emphasise that it is the criminal animal rights activists we want to get to. Anyone who pushes for good animal welfare and activates themselves for it in a peaceful and good way should of course be able to continue to do so. They are the ones who are involved in harassing people and committing crimes we need to get to. Generally speaking, I believe that both Sweden as a nation and the industry as such benefit from the fact that we have strong animal protection. It has for a long time been driven by industry together with politicians and other elected representatives. Let us continue the dialogue with the LRF and political representatives to ensure that we land right in the various measures that we are going to take.
i-5025096418ecfd00-103	Mr President, I would like to It is an urgent matter to discuss. I was going to mention animal rights organisations and support for various animal rights organisations, precisely because it is problematic that rhetoric claims to accept the infringements. I welcome the fact that the government will take the initiative to clarify and tighten up the law on trespassing, as it is something that many people choose not to distance themselves from. It is considered to be a way of showing how it really looks. In fact, it is about playing a picture of what is going on in Swedish stables, barns, henhouses and pig houses. I find it problematic that understanding does not exist from both parties. It is important that this type of debate should make sure that this is bridged. I welcome, of course, the fact that the government is initiating and holding talks with the LRF on these issues. I also welcome what happened a few months ago. The Gothenburg-P cheese then started to systematically map this activity and showed the public what it is all about. It has also raised a debate in the media. The Center Party has always been active and worked on these issues. But it is problematic to go out in an election campaign and talk about the right of a mink farmer to run his business without feeling threatened by activists. There are many opinions about activities carried out with animal husbandry. And that's good. But this has highlighted and shown that it is terror. I can sum up the debate by saying that I welcome the fact that the answer to the first question is that the government will tighten up the legislation on illegal infringements. But we still have some way to go when it comes to systematising and keeping statistics on animal rights, for example by means of criminal codes. But it is a good thing that we have had to go into the matter in depth. Thank you for the debate.
i-5025096418ecfd00-108	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank you for the debate and for the articles in the Gothenburg-P cheese mentioned by Ola Johansson. I have also taken note of them and I also have that picture of what it has been about in concrete terms. That is also one reason why I am saying today that we need to clarify the legislation on illegal entry and home peace offences. We will include this issue in an investigation into organised crime. There we will look at many different issues. I see this as a natural part of it, when we can add it. We are continuing the dialogue with the LRF and with the opposition on what else to do. I think we want to move in the same direction. Of course, we are also continuing to expand the police organization. In doing so, it is important for us to indicate that those resources must benefit the whole country. So not only should we tighten up the penalties and the view on this, but we should ensure that we can actually get to the perpetrators involved. Thank you for the debate. We will continue the dialogue in other forms.
