i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-0	Madam President, I would like Last Tuesday, last week, EU leaders met in Brussels to start discussions on the institutional changes ahead. The President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, will now start talks with the Member States and the newly elected representatives of the European Parliament on the forthcoming high-level appointments. The next few years in Parliament will be marked by discussions on forms of cooperation and alliances among the newly elected Members. It is a Parliament that is in many ways more divided than before. So it is still too early to say how the new Parliament will shape itself and ask itself about various questions. It is clear, however, that after an election with an unusually high turnout, we have a parliament that is still dominated by constructive groups of parties that stand up both for EU cooperation itself and for important principles of democracy and the rule of law. This in itself is promising for the further process. At the same time, it is clear that Parliament wants to stick to the system of top candidates and thus that the European Council's candidate for President of the Commission should be elected from the circle of top candidates nominated. It will therefore be a question of finding support both in the Member States and in Parliament. Madam President, I would like As President-in-Office of the European Council, it is Donald Tusk's role to probe with the European Parliament and the Member States which candidates exist and what support they have. Against this background, Donald Tusk gave his view on the further work in that process. It is clear that he wants the nomination process for the President of the Commission to be completed at the June European Council. At the same time, there is, of course, a readiness for the process to take longer. As far as nomination processes are concerned, there is agreement that efforts should be made to achieve a balance, including geographical balance between large and small countries, in terms of political colour and between women and men. But it will not be easy. Donald Tusk also stressed the need to choose people who have the right profile and experience for the various missions. These are, of course, starting points which I also regard as important. With regard to the work on finding this balance in the future, Donald Tusk indicated that he would like to see a broad approach. This means that in his probes he wants to be able to start from a package with a number of different entries. These are primarily five posts. It is the President of the Commission. It is the High Representative of the Commission for Foreign and Security Affairs. It is the President of the European Council. It is the President of Parliament. It is the head of the European Central Bank, which, however, becomes a little special because this does not concern non-euro countries. The broad approach does not only include the various high-level items, but Tusk also sees links to the strategic agenda. It shall be adopted by the European Council in June. He believes that the appointment of the various high-level posts should also take account of the work programme that will shape the work of the institutions in the future. Madam President, I would like Overall, the Heads of State and Government expressed support for Donald Tusk's proposed approach. There were no objections, but all expressed confidence in him, who thus has a strong mandate to move forward. Since we are in the early stages of this process, it was not a question of bringing forward names but of discussing principles and starting points for further work. At the same time, although there are shared views on the so-called top candidates, it is clear that there will be a great need for flexibility from all sides in the future. During the discussion, I stated that the starting point must, of course, be to get the best possible people in the leading positions. Europe is facing major challenges. There is a need for people who have both power and sensitivity so that they can steer EU cooperation forward. High competence, experience and integrity are important personal characteristics for all the items to be allocated. I also supported Donald Tusk's view that the overall result of all these appointments should be balanced between different interests. This applies not least to the distribution between women and men. Here I want to see a much better balance than today's four men and one woman. As far as the top candidate process is concerned, the Treaty does not support the automatic Presidency of the Commission of the top candidate from the group that is the largest in the European Parliament. Of course, this does not exclude that a top candidate can be considered appropriate, but then for other reasons – competence and experience. The important thing is that we do not let this process lock us up in the future. It is also important that work on the appointments of the EU's highest representatives is carried out as smoothly as possible. As I said, Europe is facing major challenges. It is therefore urgent that we get the various items in order as quickly as possible. Madam President, I would like In the informal probes that are now following, I will continue to build on the principles that I raised at the European Council last week and which I expressed at the meeting last Tuesday. The plan is for the European Council to be able to agree at its meeting on 20 and 21 June to nominate a candidate for the post of new President of the Commission. We also expect that at the same meeting we will be able to agree on the strategic agenda for the work of the future Commission. The Government returns in the usual order to the Riksdag for consultation prior to these decisions. This was the report back from the meeting.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-14	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. I agree with much of what the Prime Minister said. When we had a meeting of the European Council last week, we did not have a clear election result. But I guess we've come to the same conclusion as the Prime Minister: now it's clearer. At least we see that there are more pro-EU friends in Parliament. We do not really know where the majorities lie, but there are others who stand up for European cooperation and democracy. That's good. What I understand from the report today – and we have been able to read it in newspapers too – is Donald Tusk's ambition that things should proceed fairly quickly. As I said at the meeting of the Board last week, the European Union is facing a series of challenges that not every country can solve on its own. European cooperation is really important, and it is needed. We know the challenges. It is about climate change, about the need for sustainable migration, about combating cross-border crime, about combating terrorism and about how we can strengthen the internal market. Then it is very important which people are appointed. What we talked about most last week was precisely the President of the European Commission. We need a person who really is, as the Prime Minister himself says, the best possible. The person to be selected shall have a high level of competence and integrity. Then, of course, it is the other parameters that must also be taken into account. It is about geographical distribution, especially for Sweden, which is a small country, between small and large countries, about the candidates of several party groups and about a gender balance. I understand from the reports that it is in any case a consensus on gender balance. Then you don't agree on this with a great candidate. I have a question about the mandate that Donald Tusk now received. Is it about what we have discussed here, about the qualifications of the person, or is it flexibility? Can we say anything more about the mandate on which the Council could agree?
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-19	Madam President, I would like I share the relief that the European Parliament is still pro-EU. It will also be good to find majorities. It can also be so good that more groups are needed. Regardless of this process, I would like to emphasise once again that the government will, of course, come back to Parliament for a mandate when it is approaching some kind of decision. Right now, there are four men and one woman in these five positions. The concern I feel is that the parameter women/ men will be the most difficult. I am not saying that we should not seek it; I just hear that this is the factor mentioned when we come back to the problem of achieving all the factors. Here we must work hard and find like-mind to really stand up for a better balance between women and men than we have today. As far as the mandate to Donald Tusk is concerned, it is precisely on the basis of the criteria discussed by the European Council and which I also expressed during the European Council. At the same time, it is important to meet both geography and party groups, women/ men and other parameters. The effort is then to try to find a package of these five entries, where you can add the puzzle so that it will be as good as possible based on these parameters. There must therefore be some flexibility here. We can also note that the Treaty does not require that it is the top candidate of the largest group who will automatically become President. It could be the best person anyway. It remains to be seen. However, we must also realise that the European Parliament has a strong opinion on this particular issue, and that is why these different things simply require flexibility. However, we are based on the parameters that I have mentioned.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-23	Madam President, I would like Although it is my group that is the largest, I think, like the Prime Minister, that this case of candidates for excellence is not always the best way. To solve Europe's challenges, we will find the best candidates. It will not be an easy task. Many compromises are required. I understand that, too. We highlight many different things that should enter this balance. I just have one little question about this whole point-and-point thing. As I said, we had the issue at the EU Council, and we feel the same way about complying with the EU Treaty. I may not have listened carefully enough to what the Prime Minister has just said in his re-report, but I did understand that indeed, there are differences of opinion in the Council, but many have also stated that the EU Treaty should be respected, quite simply. Can we say anything more about this from the Council meeting?
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-25	Madam President, I would like It will not be an easy task. I don't envy Donald Tusk at the moment in trying to put this puzzle. As far as the top candidates are concerned, it is clear in the Treaty that it is the European Council that will propose a President of the Commission to Parliament. If the proposed person does not get a majority in Parliament, the European Council will have one more month to present a new candidate. If you know from the outset that the European Parliament will vote in a certain way, you will have to take it into account, even if the Treaty formally says what it says. We cannot make as many proposals as would not be accepted by the European Parliament, because then we will be standing. It is a balance in itself to stand up for the Treaty and the right of the European Council to table the proposal. We also know that where something is to be approved by a majority, there must also be one.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-29	Madam President, I would like It is early in the process and not easy to find concrete questions to ask the Prime Minister. We are talking about rather broad mandates which may not seem very controversial either. Turning back to the process following the previous elections five years ago, however, it was very clear that the European Parliament wanted to advance its position. It wanted to interpret the EU Treaty differently, and it won well that draft battle. I now believe that the Council wants to take back some of this power. It is trying to win the draft battle by really sticking to the fact that it is the Council that will propose the candidate and up to Parliament to approve or reject. Is that how the Prime Minister sees the discussions in the Council yesterday and that it is slightly different from what it was like five years ago? That is something that I think would be positive. It was a very destructive process then. Britain certainly did not want Juncker, which probably led to Brexit. Perhaps Brexit would not have happened if the European Parliament had not taken this enormous power. Otherwise, it feels like we are discussing gender very much. The name discussion has not yet come, but instead we are discussing gender balance. No one's against it. However, I would like us to hear a little more about what competence is being asked for. The gender of the President of the Commission or other top-level people does not seem to me to be the most important thing. What competence is required, and what is most important? The most important thing must surely be competence, and I think we should talk a little more about what qualifications the candidates should have instead of what gender they should have.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-35	Madam President, I would like As far as the balance between Parliament and the European Council is concerned, that is certainly true to some extent. But you have to see it wider than that. You have to include that parameter, but when a puzzle is to be laid with five people and five positions it is important to see the whole part. The President of the Commission shall propose and approve the European Council. I can't read Donald Tusk's thoughts, but I think in his equation there's probably the whole thing. Then he must also bear in mind that the European Parliament may have a certain firm opinion. He is also having a discussion with both the Member States and Parliament's representatives, so that will have to work out in the course of the journey. I think Brexit has other reasons than Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker. It's much more profound. Unfortunately, we see in the debate in the UK that that is on another bow. The reasons can only be speculated on. On the issue of gender balance, I mentioned it in my speech and in the European Council last week that it is of course about parameters such as knowledge, experience and integrity and so on. These qualifications are available among women as well as among men. Unfortunately, that insight has not really come to everyone's attention. When we discuss this parameter, I suddenly hear from others that on this point it will be more difficult. I do not share that point of departure. We need to find a better balance than four men and one woman. Of course, competence still applies, but it exists equally among women and among men.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-40	Madam President, I would like I think it is important for the Commission to understand in some way that it reflects the whole of Europe. Perhaps I think that the most important thing here is the qualifications. I would like a President of the Commission who respects the diversity of countries and focuses on the issues that people think are most important. None of this has anything to do with the gender of the President of the Commission. Sweden has had a number of Commissioners, but we have not had a single man. In view of the gender balance, one might ask whether the government should therefore propose a man; that has been 100% women and 0% men. I do not think so, but I think that the government should try to nominate the most suitable candidate regardless of gender.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-42	Madam President, I would like I do not know if there is so much more to add, but if you are to represent the whole of Europe and we assume that Europe looks much like the rest of the world, half are women and half men. I think that is a good starting point. The problem with the Commission is not that it is proposed for few men, but that it is always women who are under-represented. If you look at the Commissioners, you see a strong over-representation of men. I do not think it is a good thing, but we must have a much more equal representation. This will mean that experience, integrity and knowledge equally exist among women.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-44	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for reporting back. Now the discussion on gender equality has already been up, but I can say that at the meeting of the EU Board, the Center Party raised the issue in preparation for negotiations on the obvious starting point that women and men are equally competent and that everyone should have equal opportunities. Then it should also be possible to find as many women as men to top posts – whatever others may think of it. The Centre Party also takes a very positive view of the impact that the gender dimension appears to have had in the discussions. Donald Tusk has signaled that at least two of the five top cheeses should be held by women. At the same time, the Prime Minister has said that he thinks it will be tough and that there are many parameters, but he hopes that everyone will come to their senses. How does the Prime Minister view the actual possibilities of ultimately delivering a more equal top quality in the EU, and what is the Prime Minister prepared to do to get there? It is particularly linked to the three top cheeses where no woman has yet sat, that is, the President of the Commission, the President of the European Council and the President of the European Central Bank.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-48	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view on the issue of equal skills regardless of gender and that there should be two out of three. Since the number of entries is odd, there must be at least two of either sex. Then there was the question of real possibilities. In fact, there is competence in both sexes. It should be possible to handle. There are also those who have experience in sitting in the Commission or in other missions, such as Heads of Government. It's about two things. One thing is to find as many like-minds as possible. It has to happen quickly. This is important. This is not just something we say, and have said, but it is really important. The other thing is perhaps to think a little outside the box. You may look at candidates in a too narrow circle, and you can think outside the box. For example, to become President of the European Council, you must have been Head of Government or Head of State. Being President of the European Central Bank requires some special competence. But I am absolutely convinced that if you make an effort to put the puzzle in place, it is possible to find a better gender balance than now.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-51	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I assume that it is too much to ask the Prime Minister to give us a name on who to think about. Another important aspect that the Center Party also raised in the run-up to the summit is the green transition. It is extremely important for all of the five top cheeses. We have ten years to reach the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Those who end up in these posts should have the green transition as a guiding principle for the EU to succeed in taking the necessary steps and putting on the leadership shirt. Could the Prime Minister describe to what extent questions about the green transition were discussed at the meeting and how they had an impact in the discussions? Is it possible, according to the Prime Minister, to have an impact on the green work in the addition of the five top cheeses? What does the Prime Minister intend to do to make this happen?
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-54	Madam President, I would like As far as names are concerned, we'll have to get back to you. It was a good attempt, but I would first like to anchor the names in Parliament. It is important to have said that last week's European Council did not discuss names at all. Not on one occasion were names in that sense. I think that was good, and we stuck to that. Now it's up to Donald Tusk to drive the process. As far as green change is concerned, I said in my speech that Donald Tusk wants to take in the strategy – we will hopefully adopt a strategy – for the next European Council term of office. There will be that question. That's why he wants to take in the strategy. The candidates to be proposed must operate in accordance with the strategy, not least in terms of green transition. What I want to add is Agenda 2030. There is a strong commitment that will also shape future work.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-58	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. We note that more men than women have been nominated by Parliament's party groups for the various high-level appointments. That makes it more difficult, as the Prime Minister has done. I would like to know how the Prime Minister sees what suggests that it will be the equal and equal distribution that we in Sweden seek. We in the Left Party have stated that it is important not only to have equal and equal distribution, but also to have those who hold high-level posts resist the attempts being made to repress women's position. Then we come to the discussion, which has been raised in previous posts, about competence. We know that the skills of men and women are sometimes perceived differently. If you are not clear about an equal distribution of posts, there is a risk that you only see what is perceived as a male competence, which in no way needs to be better than what is perceived as female competence. I'd like to send that along. I also share the Prime Minister's view that it is positive that there is a majority of democratic parties in this House. But there have been changes between the party groups, which make it a little unclear with majorities and so on. Does the Prime Minister consider that it will affect the appointments in any way? I have one last important question for Sweden and most parties, namely that the EU budget and the amount of the levy should not increase with Brexit. Has that question been raised in your discussions? How does the question affect the continuation of the process?
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-64	Madam President, I would like As far as the nominations of the party groups as President of the Commission are concerned – there have not been many nominations – it is a clear excess of men. I don't have every party's nominations in my head, but it's an overweight. That's why it's so important to look at all five positions. The European Central Bank stands out a little because it is only the euro area countries that have to appoint a manager. But you can look at the five together anyway, precisely to have a greater opportunity to make it equal. In my opinion, this must be the case. I find it difficult to see that there is a majority for something other than the defence and development of women's rights. There are forces in this House that do not stand up for this view, but, as I said, there are enough – a clear majority – who stand up for those rights. It is our duty to work for this. I also share the view of competence. The level of competence is the same, but then there may be different competences. They're just as much needed. It should not be about a type of competence, nor about just the male perspective to be seen, but it must be both. That's when it's best. Then there was the question of majorities. In theory, the Conservative-Christian Democratic Group, together with the Socialist-Socialist Group, could have formed its own majority. It is not possible now, but there must be another group. Nevertheless, I believe that there is a maturity and insight in these groups that it is now a matter of working together and bringing together five top candidates as quickly as ever. There are such great challenges. One is the EU budget. It was not discussed at this meeting, but it will be a big enough challenge.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-70	Madam President, I would like I have just one comment, namely that the Prime Minister mentioned that women and men can have different competences that are assessed differently. That's it. But even when women and men have the same skills, they can be judged differently by who looks at them. If men look, they often have the ability to raise men's skills, even if the skills are exactly the same. I would just like to include this in the further work and, of course, I support Sweden's focus on equal and equal distribution of high-level services.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-72	Madam President, I would like I can only agree and support it, for that is exactly the case. It may sound surprising, but during my quite many years in IF Metall we worked a lot on exactly that, with the realization that this is exactly the way described here. You have to think about this before you appoint various representatives. I fully share that view, and it feels good to feel the support on these issues. It is now a matter of ensuring that as many like-minded as possible among the Member States think the same way.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-74	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. Yes, it is gratifying that we had a high turnout in Europe. I believe that many went and voted in favour of the European Union, but some went and voted against the European Union. The split that the Prime Minister is talking about may show that there is uncertainty about the future of Europe and that it is important that we take the citizens' voices seriously. It is important when it comes to the appointment of the top posts discussed in the Council that it reflects the outcome of the elections, but also, of course, that the people work with the best interests of the Union in mind. Keeping countries together that want to go at different speeds, I also see as extremely important. Citizens must be able to have confidence in the EU and for the EU to listen to the Member States. The different parameters of the choice of persons – geographical distribution, both women and men, political affiliation and the size of countries – are, of course, important. But the people, as some of them have been here before, must also have a good ability to cooperate and negotiate and have a broad background and competence. Now it will take three different party groups to work together to get a majority. What is the Prime Minister's view of the possibilities now that one is probing for the appointment of the top cheeses? I assume that the Prime Minister will be recommending someone, and I would like to ask the question that some have touched on: Will the Prime Minister officially tell us who he wants to look at these top posts, and will we see any woman?
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-80	Madam President, I would like I share the view of voter turnout. Now we need to take the citizens' voices seriously and see that this is an organisation, a cooperation, which helps to improve people's everyday lives. That's ultimately what it's supposed to be for. One way to do this is what Désirée Pethrus is into. We stick together, but we can also have different types of collaborations and go at a slightly different pace as long as it does not damage the whole. Schengen and the euro are examples of this, and defence cooperation will be the same. In the case of the party groups, at least three are needed. That's why Donald Tusk wants to look at the whole story: Is it possible to put together a package that serves the interests, including the gender perspective? But I'm going back to Parliament. If I'm going to advocate someone, I'm going back to Parliament first. I will start a discussion with Donald Tusk at his pace, so to speak. He will start with Parliament; then it will be the Member States. There will be lots of discussions between Member States, between the President of the European Council and the Member States and so on. But the crucial thing is that before we put down any foot we should go back to Parliament. I'm not there yet.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-84	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. We do not want to see a Brexit process in more countries. I think we agree on that with the Prime Minister. But it is important that these people now implement the strategic agenda. For Sweden, I also hope that the Prime Minister is clear that the strategic agenda must not swell and become so large that the EU budget allows Sweden to increase its contribution by 15 – 17 billion. It feels untenable, and then I think we would really get the Swedish people against us. How does the Prime Minister view the possibility of combining people who want to implement the strategic agenda with keeping the budget limited?
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-88	Madam President, I would like After all, what the European Council decides is what applies. All who are selected for different top posts must stick to that agenda. As I said earlier, Donald Tusk also thinks in those terms. He looks at the agenda and what it may contain. We have discussed a few things provisionally but have not established it. When it is laid down, hopefully in June, it must fit with those added. These people must, of course, pursue that agenda; there can be no other mission. With regard to the budget, two years ago I have made it clear that this increase of 15 – 17 billion, by 30 – 40%, will not happen for us. Everybody knows that. But we must continue to discuss how the net result will be the best possible for Sweden. That's where we have to land, and it's going to be hard enough.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-91	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your report. As many have pointed out, there was a high turnout this time, which welcomes a liberal. At the same time, we have to admit that we would not have thought such a turnout was a big deal if it had been in Sweden, for example. But under the conditions, it was still good. It was also with wonderful relief that I realised that the outcome of this election was clearly liberal and pro-European Union. Maybe Brexit was our best whaler. Seeing what it looks like in Britain right now and all the question marks that are there have frightened people, and you may have realised what we actually have. As you know, it's sometimes hard to see what we have-- that's the thing about the cow and the booth. Of course we Swedes get stuck in this with the gender balance. I think it is incredibly important, and I think that the question raised by the Swedish Democrats further shows how important it is for us who actually agree that intelligence is evenly distributed across the sexes but that the methods of selection are not evenly distributed across the sexes. I'm glad we have a prime minister standing there, very much. I read in the news that Macron and Merkel apparently disagree – according to media reports, then – on the merits of the President of the Commission. Mr Macron wants a President with government experience, while Mr Merkel wants a President with experience in the European Parliament. Was this something that coloured the discussion, or does the Prime Minister think we can reach agreement on the matter?
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-96	Madam President, I would like This was not the case at the meeting, but I can imagine that there has been a discussion for the reason that you will then come back to who are the candidates. That is what is reflected, and that is what makes Donald Tusk's task so incredibly difficult. There are many interests here, but I repeat once again that the five-position puzzle may nevertheless be an aid in finding the right balance. So I think the answer to Tina Acketoft's question is that it may well have been a discussion. The European Council did not hold that discussion, but it may have been held for that reason. If you narrow down the discussion of principle, you will soon understand that some people are being asked for when the criteria are set.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-98	Madam President, I would like No, no one's envying Tusk these days. Moreover, he has apparently said that at least two of the five should be women, so he has a lot to work with. The talks on the strategic agenda and on all these appointments are apparently to take place in parallel. As the Prime Minister said, it must be borne in mind that the five must fit in with the way in which the strategic agenda will be drawn up. This is a little boil soup on a nail, but can the Prime Minister see if this is feasible at all? Will these discussions be able to be conducted in parallel with each other, and can they add to each other and be a help instead of overturning the whole discussion?
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-101	Madam President, I would like That's a wise question. We had a preliminary discussion in Sibiu on the strategic agenda and strategy. That's where we got a picture, and Donald Tusk has collected what's most important. The danger is what Désirée Pethrus was into: It can be too much on the agenda if everything is going to go in. So somewhere we have a rough picture, but it is not decided until it is decided. In fact, as Tina Acketoft says, it can be a little aggravating in that sense. Nevertheless, my assessment is that it is possible to combine these discussions. We also get the draft conclusions, which show how we think about the strategy, for example. Whatever the case, those who are elected for the various top cheeses must relate to the strategy set by the European Council.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-105	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. We are currently in the world's most equal parliament, thanks in large part to the fact that the Social Democrats introduced gender quotas as a method of producing dual lists for the 1994 elections. For us, it is obvious that there should be equal representation and that it must also be the goal in Europe. It was also said earlier that since its entry into the EU in 1995, Sweden has nominated female Commissioners. Today, however, only 9 out of 28 Commissioners are women – a little less than a third. During this year's election campaign, we Social Democrats pushed the issue of an equal Commission. The demand from us has been for each country to nominate a man and a woman for the posts of Commissioner. How does the Prime Minister view the possibility that this autumn we will have a Commission with at least 40% female Commissioners? How are we to deal with the situation if some countries oppose this requirement?
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-109	Madam President, I would like This is one of the main issues and must be so. The point is to move the positions forward. Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker told us that when he became President of the Commission and was about to put together his Commission, he had to start by sending back a number of nominations to countries that never came with any female candidate. If he had only gone to the first nominations, he would have had even fewer women than a third. It was so bad. He sent back and said, "There must be more women candidates," or we won't get a commission. I think it must continue in that direction. Then it is up to the President of the Commission to be elected. It is therefore important that we give the clear message that this is how a Commission must be put together. Nevertheless, it is 2019– we have to show that we have come further than that one third would be acceptable. We, of course, intend to gather as many equal thinking as possible from the Swedish side and maintain this message all the time so that that parameter does not fall away and you only look at party groups and geography. That parameter must be in place with the others, in terms of both the five top cheeses and the Commission. Ultimately, it is the President of the Commission who makes a proposal to Parliament concerning Commissioners. I also hope that Parliament can be very clear and say so. That's where you're going to be questioned, and that's where you're going to assert yourself and tell me what you want. Then Parliament can also say that it wants to see a better distribution.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-114	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I have no further question, but I simply hope that we will have equal success in the future!
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-115	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-116	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the presence here and the report! My question concerns the situation after the five posts have been decided; I am thinking of the social dimension of the European Union. We had a very interesting conference in Gothenburg, where you led the work. We had an electoral movement that was really very confused on this point: what can be demanded of the European Union in terms of social considerations at work. However, this is an area in which we have a contribution to make, and it would be interesting to hear how you assess the opportunities to really do something of the social dimension of EU programmes.
i-K7MASzJdxiRJzwuWKsobz5	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Hammarberg! I believe that this is a crucial issue for the future of Europe: that there is trust and trust and that the organisation is also ultimately for the citizens of the Member States. They are the ones who should be well off from this – all people, not just some. I therefore believe that the social pillar is of the calibre that it is pressing all countries. You need to think about gender issues, educational opportunities, access to jobs, safe jobs and so on. We are following these developments and helping to exchange experiences and set goals based on each country's legislation. The whole point is that you do both. I see that there is now a stronger understanding among more Member States. Just the fact that we got the turnout that we got in autumn 2017 says something about that more people want this, regardless of the party group. They see the need to do something that increases social trust and trust in the EU as a tool for improving people's everyday lives. Having said that, it is not the case that everyone stands up and exults. But we must do so, because it also concerns the question of the responsibility of countries for their citizens. The fact that thousands go to other countries to sit on the street begging says something about how they are at home if they choose that life. My assessment is that there is a stronger understanding and understanding that these issues are probably so important. They must also enter into the strategy so that we are now pursuing and demonstrating that Europe is not only for capital and large companies, but ultimately for the people.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-123	Madam President, I would like I have just one brief comment to make. I believe that there is a very clear link: the EU must be more active in this area also in order to counter populist trends in Europe. There is a connection there, and perhaps we at home would try to explain this more clearly. The discussion seems to be stuck in the fact that we are in danger of taking decisions at international level that we should be taking here at Swedish level. There's no contradiction there. So we probably have a task here at home in this regard too.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-124	Madam President, I would like I share that view. The social pillar did not change any decision-making mandate, but it looks exactly the same. The Treaty applies. If this is to change, the Treaty must change. Nevertheless, it is important that we help each other to increase people's educational opportunities. Only such a thing is absolutely crucial in a labour market that is going to change at an ever-faster pace. The main responsibility lies with the nation state, but we can certainly help each other and find opportunities for success, prospects and hope for the future for people. That's where it is: What is the hope? It should not be seen as an obstacle, but as an opportunity.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-129	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the CU19 report to be approved. The proposal is a first part of the January agreement between us social democrats, environmentalists, liberals and center parties in terms of regulatory simplification and provides greater freedom for property owners to build patios without building permits. Many people want an opportunity to stay outdoors on a patio adjacent to their home, and it is seen by many as a natural part of the home. A terrace adjacent to the house is an alternative where the ground can be hilly. Those who today want to build their own terrace in connection with their house need to make qualified assessments of the regulations in order to guess whether or not building permits are needed. For example, in its report, Boverket points out that there is no uniform application of the rules on when a terrace requires building permits. Difficult and possibly even inconsistent rules that may be perceived as unjustified may undermine and call into question the legitimacy of the regulatory framework. With the proposals for decisions in the report, we want to make the regulatory framework more consistent with what many people believe and believe they have the right to carry out on their property. The proposal allows patios to be built at one- or two-dwelling buildings or additional residential buildings without a building permit if the patio is built within 3.6 metres of the residential building, is not higher than 1.8 metres and is not placed closer to the plot line than 4.5 metres, unless the neighbour allows the terrace to be built closer. Such a terrace may be contrary to detailed plans and site rules. This also applies to a lower terrace which, according to case-law, is not covered by the planning and construction rules on building permits. In the case of buildings and settlement areas which are particularly valuable from a historical, cultural, environmental or artistic point of view, the requirements for building permits and detailed plans and site rules shall remain unchanged. The changes taken together are deemed to be such a simplification of the regulatory framework for patios that it is not justified to review the framework for building permits as a whole, as some consultation bodies have highlighted. Rather, the regulations are clarified, and according to Boverket, the change of rules means that the case law developed for patios is now largely codified in law. All in all, the proposals facilitate the possibility of organising a terrace in connection with residential buildings, by simplifying the regulatory framework for terraces in a significant way and by giving more people the opportunity to build a terrace in connection with the residential building. And again, I argue that the regulatory framework for patios is better in line with what many people believe and believe they have the right to carry out on their property with the new regulations. Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-138	Madam President, I would like Of course, there is a broad political consensus in the Riksdag to facilitate and create greater freedom in building patios. There is no difference of political opinion here. However, I would like to supplement the honourable Member's brand speech for building permits-free patios by stating that the Riksdag has addressed three announcements to the Government on this matter – spring 2014, autumn 2015 and spring 2017. It can therefore be said that the government has taken six years to come up with a relatively simple matter of facilitating the construction of patios. As the report states, this is part of the January agreement. But I can reassure all viewers that even with a bourgeois government we would have facilitated the construction of patios. The interesting thing is perhaps that this is the only thing the government has delivered during the spring. Sweden has a housing crisis. Young people are not allowed to live. Last week we saw an alarm report from the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce saying that young people cannot get housing in Stockholm. And at the same time, the government has given priority to building terraces! I don't really know what connection the government makes if you think that more young people will get housing by making patios free of building permits. It is, of course, very strange that we have a Minister for Housing who is so absent from both the debate and when it comes to putting forward proposals that will allow more people to get housing. However, we Moderates have said that we will support any regulatory simplification proposal that is realistic. Of course, we also support facilitating the construction of patios. But I certainly do not hope that the next parliamentary year will be as awkward on the part of the government. The housing crisis calls for concrete measures. The housing crisis requires the government to come up with a sharp housing policy that allows more people to live somewhere. Not least, it is important that more young people are allowed to live in owned housing. We could see that in a report that came a few months ago. I had an interpellation debate with the Minister for Housing on this yesterday, in which I asked what the government's policy is for the 40th-century grandchildren to be able to move into property. We found that the Minister was unanswered. On this matter, however, we are in agreement, and I very much hope that there will be more proposals from the government to facilitate the housing crisis than just to facilitate the construction of patios.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-146	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman argues that this would be a proposal for housing policy, which I am very concerned about. We're talking about patios, and nobody's going to live on patios. This is a simplification of the rules in order to make it easier for people to get a terrace to stay on without having to consider today's interpretations and case law. Lars Beckman's post is very strange. Secondly, I think that debates in this House should stick to the subjects under discussion. There is nothing in the bill that mentions housing construction. It is a question of facilitating the construction of patios, that is to say, greater freedom to build patios, if anyone has misunderstood this. Obviously, a simplification of the rules is needed in order for everyone to understand that this is what it is all about and that it is not about housing policy. However, we are still in the area of housing policy, and I was still going to answer the questions asked by Lars Beckman. I repeat what I said about what was built during the last parliamentary term last time I was in the speaker's chair: 35 000 dwellings were added in multi-family houses in 2015; in 2016 there were 45 000, in 2017 there were 50 000 and in 2018 there were 45 000. If you look at the construction of new dwellings during the first quarter of this year, you can see that it is approximately in line with 2018. So it is not a big step, and there are far more than what was built during the eight years of alliance rule. Not only can we blame the crisis that has been going on for a number of years, but it is also a matter of political will. In addition to the thousands of apartments I have listed, I can also mention that about 10 000 – 15 000 small houses are starting each year. That is an ambition that we have and want to continue with. However, it must of course be ensured that housing is built that people can demand.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-151	I would remind you of what the debate is about.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-152	Madam President, I would like It has thus taken six years and three announcements from the Riksdag to produce a simple simplification of the rules on building permits free terraces, a matter where we agree. It would have been nice if the government had made more proposals, for then the Moderates would have had more proposals to approve. But of course I am happy to correct myself: the government has not put forward a single sharp proposal to ease the housing crisis during the first year of the mandate. It was therefore kind of me to say that the government has made a proposal, but I can correct myself and say that the government has made zero proposals, if the honourable Member thinks it is better. When you visit house manufacturers, you hear that they are really calling for regulatory simplifications. That is why the Riksdag has given three announcements to the Government. In one of these announcements, I believe, a united civil committee has told the government to make regulatory simplification proposals. Then, of course, you have to work them out. I recently visited a house manufacturer in Hudiksvall who said: The problem is that in one municipality you can get building permits for our house while in another municipality you do not get building permits for an exact same house. This is, of course, indecent. I hope that the government and the Social Democrats – you have close contacts with the government – are pushing for more simplification proposals. So bringing forward this proposal to make a relatively simple adjustment for building permits-free terraces has taken six years and three announcements. Few people can be satisfied with this pace if they are to develop housing policy.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-159	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman rallies a bit but misses an important part of housing policy. We have reintroduced investment aid, which makes it possible to obtain housing that people can afford to demand. This is a prerequisite for building a single dwelling at all, whether it is a rental, a villa, a right-of-occupancy or a right of ownership. If there is no demand for housing and enough people can afford to buy it, they will not be built. It must be clear that the roof of the expensive homes is reached. This market is quite saturated. Sweden's Byggindustrier already stated in 2015 that we would get this result. Let me refer again to the report that was presented then. On p. 30 they have counted on this. It is Evidens and Veidekke who are behind the report. Read it and meditate! When you see how many thousands of homes have been built, you understand that we are at this level. We also have the January agreement, where four parties take responsibility for Sweden and go on to implement comprehensive regulatory simplifications and shorten the planning process to get housing faster. A great deal was also done during the previous parliamentary term. We had a 22-point program that we agreed on across the block and that has been worked on. Therefore, standing here and saying that nothing has happened is not in harmony with the truth. I think we should raise the level of debate a little in these seats.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-164	Madam President, I would like I'll correct my statement. The government has therefore not put forward a single proposal to build more, but only this proposal on the building permits-free altars, and it has taken three announcements and six years from the first announcement to obtain this decision. With this pace of reform, it will take a very long time. As far as the January agreement is concerned, I can reassure everyone who listens to this. With a bourgeois government, it would not have taken six years to produce a simple simplification of the rules of the altars. It would have been much faster, and it would have been much more reformable. Investment aid is pointless aid, which, among others, the Center Party has been a strong opponent – rightly so. Their parliamentary motion contains all the factual arguments for why investment aid is completely wasted. But above all, it is not a simple rule, and it does not help more people to own their housing. Madam President, I would like It may sound like we disagree about creating greater freedom to build patios, but we are not. We think it is a good proposal, and the Moderates support it and call for its approval. However, much more reforms, faster pace and more housing policies are needed in order for more young people and others to have a place to live in Sweden. Unfortunately, we will not solve this through greater freedom to build patios.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-169	Madam President, I would like Yes, I want to live, I want to die in the North. Sweden's national anthem indicates a geographical position, an area that is far larger than its own country. The Nordic region is both an area on the world map and a determination of what we would also call our home. Yes, I want to live, I want to die here at home. We are debating here today the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which deals with the Government's letter Nordic cooperation in 2018 and the 2018 report of the Nordic Council's Swedish delegation. Cooperation between the Nordic countries is one of the oldest and most extensive regional collaborations in the world, and the cornerstone is to work on issues that bring Nordic benefits to the Nordic citizens. The starting point for each proposal and thought should be: Does this lead to greater benefit and cohesion between northerners? It is not always so, but it should always be so. As the unrest in the outside world has increased, the focus of the Moderates and the party group my party belongs to, and whose work I lead, in recent years has been on trying to increase the security of the Nordic citizens. Madam President, I would like In Eastern Ukraine, a low-intensity war has been raging since 2014 with around 13,000 dead, over 30,000 injured and over 1.6 million internally displaced persons. Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea is precisely that, an illegal annexation. At the end of 2018, at the Sea of Azov, Russia provoked further by keeping twenty sailors and sailors from Ukraine captured. They are still incarcerated without the possibility of visitors from outside. Along the coast of Gotland, the pipes are now added to Nord Stream 2. The Russian business project poses major security policy risks. In 2016, my group wanted the Nordic countries to jointly review and try to stop Nord Stream 2. The issue is still on the table. Europe does not need more Russian fossil gas; we need less. The changing geopolitical situation that has followed developments in Russia has made the Nordic Council keen to contribute to greater stability in the region. It is positive that the Nordic Council has adopted a strategy for international cooperation 2018 – 2022, which will continue to work towards an increased Nordic focus in security and foreign affairs. Let me point out some of the proposals made to the Nordic Council by the Moderates with sister parties. One is about planning for medical care in civil defence. We believe that it is important for the Nordic countries to broaden cooperation within healthcare in the Nordic countries so that it includes operational planning and preparation for conditions beyond the peace period. We also put forward a member's proposal for Nordic police cooperation against cybercrime and within Forensic work. There is an established police cooperation in the Nordic countries, but given that cybercrime is increasing and becoming increasingly complex, and that the technical possibilities for better facts in investigations are increasing while the cases at the Forensic authorities are becoming increasingly complex, we want Nordic cooperation in the cyber area and within forensic work to be reviewed and further developed. Madam President, I would like The Moderates believe that it is important that Sweden continues to work to streamline, strengthen and modernise Nordic cooperation. The Baltic countries should be included in the Nordic cooperation whenever possible and whenever they so wish. Sweden will continue to work towards deeper Nordic cooperation also in the area of security policy and further strengthen bilateral cooperation between the Nordic and Baltic countries. If we in the Nordic countries are sibling states, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are our closest cousins in terms of history, culture and shared values. We believe that Sweden should be a leading player in the Baltic Sea region and prioritise issues related to the Baltic Sea region, including Germany and Poland. We will strengthen cooperation and alliance building through, among other things, increased and broadened diplomatic presence in the region. The cooperation will be based on a broader Nordic-Baltic network in politics, trade and security. On certain issues, such as trade and security, the UK and the Netherlands should also be included in Nordic-Baltic cooperation. We share the northern flank and have Hansan 2.0 in front of us. Madam President, I would like Nordic Defence Policy Cooperation in Nordic Defence Cooperation, Nordefco, is also deepening and includes, for example, joint exercises, cooperation in international operations and material collaborations. Bilateral cooperation between Sweden and individual countries in the Nordic region has also been expanded. Defence cooperation with Finland is the clearest example. A vision programme for Nordefco has been presented until 2025, which is a good thing. But so far no parliament or the Nordic Council has been submitted to it for discussion or decision. Having approval or support from the Swedish Parliament should not be seen as a problem for our ruling Social Democrats. Rather, view it as a strength and an opportunity! The difficulty in Nordic defence and security cooperation is that the different countries have different security arrangements. Sweden and Finland are in the EU, but not in NATO. Denmark is a member of both the EU and NATO, but has some exceptions in the EU area. Norway is only a member of NATO. The different affiliations will limit how far Nordic integration can go in the field of defence and security. A solution that would simplify and improve Nordic defence cooperation would be a Swedish NATO membership. More importantly, this solution would increase Swedish security and help to secure peace in the Baltic Sea region. Madam President, I would like Sweden must contribute to meeting the major climate, economic and security changes in the Arctic region wisely. Climate change poses a number of new challenges for residents in the Arctic, Sweden and the rest of the world. While the ice is receding, technology development opens up transport routes through the Arctic Ocean and increased access to natural resources in the Arctic. Given that climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time, it is deeply unfortunate that the Arctic Council in Rovaniemi, where foreign ministers met a few weeks ago, was unable to agree on a joint final declaration on Arctic cooperation. We Moderates have said that Sweden should develop a new Arctic Strategy and be an active party to the Arctic Council and welcome that this is now happening on the part of the government. In view of the acute Russian rhetoric and the increased military presence in our neighbourhood, the Arctic Council plays a long-term role in security policy. The strategic importance of the Arctic means that the Government should present the upcoming Arctic Strategy in a special letter to the Riksdag. Here, too, it is not so bad to seek support and wider backing than the more modest hundreds of Members who are otherwise the immediate circle of the minority of Lövven. With those words, Madam President, I support the Moderates' reservation No 1 in paragraph 1. I would like to conclude by warmly thanking the members of the Swedish delegation of the Nordic Council and the competent parliamentary officials who assist the delegation in its work.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-191	Madam President, I would like For us Swedish democrats, the Nordic region has always been a priority. The Nordic region is a place that is not used to the fullest extent or in its full capacity. That is my firm conviction. We have cooperation between national borders, in many sectors, but more can be done. This will be the main point of my speech. But it would be strange to say no words about the Nordic countries in the EU this close to the European elections, so I intend to start with this. It has long been our view that our Nordic cooperation should be rewarded over EU cooperation. The Nordic region should be a strong and coordinated voice within and outside the EU. This will become increasingly important in the light of Brexit. When England, a country with which we have worked closely in the European Parliament, leaves the EU, it becomes increasingly relevant for us in the Nordic countries to stick together in Brussels but also in relation to England. We should coordinate to speak with a clear voice, where we agree on what should be sorted under national self-determination, regarding how we handle things within the Nordic region, such as forestry, welfare and other issues where our history, values and social systems have laid the foundation for the way we live today. We also need to coordinate new legislation and do so both in relation to EU directives and in relation to each other in order to avoid new unnecessary border barriers within the Nordic region. Let me also be pleased that in most countries, EU-critical parties increased in the European elections. We therefore say, with the above arguments, yes to Nordic integration and no to EU federalism. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have long believed that we in the Nordic countries should use each other's similarities and communities, not least in areas such as climate and environmental research. Here, together, we can become a strong voice on this issue. Norway has shown its emergence here by setting up a research centre in the environmental field. Our countries reflect each other, not least in language comprehension, common cultural expressions and the cross-border labour market. The Nordic countries are founded on common values around the welfare state and social safety nets. Let us use this even more than is being done today. Madam President, I would like As I said, Nordic cooperation has long been a priority for us. We are the party that has had the most extensive follow-up motion for several years. We have 13 requests in the follow-up motion which is being discussed today. The Nordic countries are a strong brand in the world, and this is for a number of reasons. We are a politically stable region, we have had long-term democracy, we are a region with an interest in innovation, not least in the tech industry and digital development, we have trade between ourselves and we are also a strong destination. Nordic education and research are very positive in promoting and supporting. Not least, we see that it is important that research at the Nordic research institutions continues, like the one that Nordforsk conducts. We would have liked to have strengthened Nordforsk, not least by increasing their budget. Unfortunately, there is no majority in favour of this, and I regret that. The conditions Nordforsk provides for cooperation in Nordic research in general, but also for research education is something in which we Swedish democrats see great value. It provides opportunities to continue to act as a collective force that brings researchers from our Nordic countries together, for high-quality studies that bring both the Nordic region and Sweden forward in development. Without an integrated language, education and training exchange, the natural popular anchoring of the close Nordic exchange is thinned out in the long term. For this reason, it is important that we have a long-term Nordic research strategy in place. Madam President, I would like The last thing I'm going to talk about is a North without thresholds and barriers. As a malmöite, I am used to commuting to and from Copenhagen. There are many of us who have worked and are still working over Sundet. Every year, a number of unjustified barriers between our countries are removed in order to facilitate cooperation between us. In order to avoid the Border Barriers Council removing border barriers retroactively, we want to establish a legislative council that works proactively to detect and eliminate new border barriers at an early stage. The same applies to emergency preparedness. After last year's forest fires due to the extreme heat, we in Nordic freedom put forward a member's proposal for a developed emergency preparedness in similar situations. We are pleased that we now have a crisis preparedness group in place, thanks to the fact that the Conservative Group, the Mitten Group and the Bureau have taken the same line. With this, I would like to endorse reservation 13 in our motion.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-205	Madam President, I would like Angelika Bengtsson was initially concerned with the Nordic region and the EU. First of all, I would like to say that, as the Swedish EU opinion is increasingly positive about membership, and as those who are eager for Swedish withdrawal are also decreasing, we have seen a change in the opinion of the Swedish democrats on the EU. I belong to those who try to keep a consistent, coherent line. I feel the same way, no matter how public opinion has changed. Madam President, I would like That is why I think it is important that we establish from Parliament's pulpit that there is no contradiction between deeper Nordic cooperation and Swedish EU membership. On the contrary, I would like to say that many of the issues that have been tried on a Nordic basis for many years have been resolved thanks to the fact that the countries have been members of the European Union. It is also worth remembering that three of the five Nordic Member States are members of the EU. Three of the five Nordic Member States are also members of NATO. I would therefore like to ask a small final question on the occasion of the issue of Brexit. I did not quite understand whether the Swedish Democrats think it is good or bad that the UK is leaving European cooperation. I would like to know a little bit about how the Swedish Democrats view defence and security cooperation as a consequence of the very sad thing that can happen, namely the UK leaving the EU. Nevertheless, it is an essential and important defence policy partner, not least Nordic. It would therefore be interesting to hear a little about the views of the Swedish democrats on this.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-209	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. We can see that Brexit was not as successful as we had hoped. That's why we wait with a swexit until we see that it works better. Our position on this is that Europe should be a cooperation. Europe should not become a federal state, as we see approaching. Where are decisions to be made? Are they to be taken by our national legislators, that is, by us who represent the people of this House, or are they to be taken in Brussels by foreign politicians whom I have not voted for and whom the Swedish people have not voted? That's the real question, isn't it? For the Swedish Democrats, it is obvious that decisions on legislation should be taken in this House and not by anyone else. What the EU should be doing is cooperation in not least the climate area. In the field of defence, too, cooperation can be achieved. But it should stop at cooperation and nothing more. That is also the answer to the question of defence cooperation put by Wallmark.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-213	Madam President, I would like I'll ask you a more specific question. Can we agree that Nordic cooperation has actually been facilitated and deepened thanks to Swedish EU membership, Danish EU membership, Finnish EU membership and, not least, because Norway is such an extremely close ally to the EU? Madam President, I would like Angelika Bengtsson said that Brexit has not been as successful as we hoped. Unfortunately, Madam President, I think it has become just as bad as many have feared. It is therefore to be welcomed that those parties that have previously had an EU-critical attitude, or a direct anti-European attitude, have nevertheless come to some sense and balance. I think it is important for us to establish from a Nordic perspective that everything that means that we can have as close as possible closer cooperation and cooperation with the UK, regardless of whether you choose to leave the Union or not, is in our Nordic interest. Madam President, I would like As far as defence and security cooperation is concerned, I think we should deepen it further in the Nordic countries. I also believe that Nordic cooperation in the field of defence and security policy would benefit from a Swedish NATO membership in the long term. There is also such a discussion in Finland, but it is up to this country to decide. We should also bring the UK closer to the various forms of defence and security cooperation that have been developed. I mentioned Nordefco, and I mentioned Nordic-Baltic cooperation. In front of me I see precisely that the Nordic countries are deepening the so-called Nordic group – the Nordic countries, the Baltic countries, Poland, Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Madam President, I would like This is perhaps the difference between having an internationalist and outward perspective and having a more inward perspective.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-218	Madam President, I would like It's supposed to be co-operation. If you are involved in a cooperation that you cannot leave behind, is it a good cooperation then? Or should you enter into voluntary cooperation and be able to leave it whenever you want, when you feel that you do not share opinions with others and can no longer stand for what the cooperation is about? For me it is a good summary of how Brexit has worked. Brexit hasn't worked. It also shows difficulties with the European state as it has become, that you cannot leave it at will. When one has had a democratic choice to leave the EU and cannot do so, it is a problem. I think it is very important to have strong Nordic cooperation in the EU as well. But then let us strengthen it also outside the EU within, for example, the Nordic Council. I did not have time to address the Baltic countries in my speech. Not least in view of the threat we see from Russia, it is extremely important that the Nordic countries cooperate even more closely than today with the Baltic countries. I think we both share the same view on this issue.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-221	Madam President, I would like Nordic cooperation is what we make of it. This is both the strength and weakness of Nordic cooperation. No supranational actor will tell us what to do with Nordic cooperation. Everything we do must be done in agreement and with a clear look at the common benefit for our countries and for our citizens. Unfortunately, this means that Nordic cooperation often comes in the second place. The national or European perspective overshadows the Nordic perspective all too often. To be clear, Madam President: Nordic cooperation is not threatened by anyone being against it. It is threatened that we forget to be in favour of it too. But in this intergovernmentality and voluntaryity lies the strength of Nordic cooperation. The Nordic dimension is not in conflict with our national interests. It is also not in conflict with our European cooperation or with the Nordic countries' further defence cooperation. But it can enhance their usefulness. It enjoys strong popular support, and we have everything to gain from Nordic cooperation – economic, environmental and security policy. Madam President, I would like The Center Party is for closer and deeper Nordic cooperation. Sweden has a lot in common with the other Nordic countries and has, through the Nordic Council, reached a great deal in the harmonisation of education and the labour market, among other things. We see that this can happen in a variety of areas where common interests exist. The Nordic countries cooperate continuously, not least through the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers, but also within the framework of other international organisations and cooperation forums. Together, we can act more forcefully. The goal of a common labour market and the freedom of young people and students to apply for education and employment in another Nordic country is central to our countries' shared competitiveness and skills provision. It is therefore with concern that we see that new border barriers have been added. For example, new EU legislation should not be applied in a way that leads to more border barriers between the Nordic countries. Sweden needs both for its own part and in close dialogue with our Nordic neighbours to strive to counteract and eliminate border barriers. The free movement within the Nordic countries and the strong ties between our countries are the basis for Nordic cooperation, and it therefore enjoys strong popular support. This also means that the Nordic countries can have a strong voice on the international stage. It is an important responsibility to manage this. Therefore, the basic principles of Nordic cooperation need to be maintained now and in the future. We need to make use of the opportunities for coordination provided by the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers. We need to think about how we can promote the common interests in the European Union and in other cooperations in which we participate in various ways. Not least, we need to take advantage of the common Nordic tradition of promoting democracy, poverty reduction and peace work. Here the Nordic region has a good reputation and long traditions that can be exploited more successfully if we can coordinate further within the Nordic region. Madam President, I would like The northern regions are not only important from a climate and environmental perspective, but are also becoming increasingly important from a security policy perspective. Russia is also affecting our northern neighbourhood, as it is equipping the Arctic and Barent areas militarily. It is a challenge for us and for our neighbours Norway and Iceland. It is important to try to maintain the Arctic as a low-voltage area. The activities of both the Arctic Council and the Barents Council are becoming increasingly important, but this is not reflected in the government's reports to the Riksdag, despite the fact that the Riksdag has made a clear statement about the need for such reporting. It is clear that there is a great need to develop not only reporting but also cooperation, which should have a clearer focus on results. On the basis of the letter, it is unclear what issues the government is pushing when it comes to the Arctic and Arctic Council, Madam President. This is remarkable because the Arctic, and also the Barents region, is growing in importance from several perspectives. Not least, we see the effects of climate change on both humans and animals in these sensitive areas. More needs to be done to protect the Arctic areas. For example, the Center Party wants the government to drive the establishment of marine reserves to protect the area from exploitation through oil, gas and mineral extraction and marine fishing and to protect the inhabitants of these areas. Both to put the issues on the agenda and to give the Riksdag better opportunities to follow up the government's work, the Center Party stresses the importance of more accurate reporting of the government's work in the Arctic Council. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of Amendment No 6 by the Center Party. Madam President, I would like As I said, Nordic cooperation will be what we make of it. For me and the Center Party, it is obvious that this means that we should strive for a stronger, greener and closely connected Nordic region.
i-VBcHkLA4ZRSZXHF6C1imCn	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating Nordic cooperation, the Nordic Council's Swedish delegation's story about the activities of last year and cooperation areas in the Arctic and Barents region. Madam President, I would like Cooperation between the Nordic countries is among the oldest and most extensive regional cooperation in the world. It is a successful cooperation and model that has contributed to greater integration, economic success and a competitive region. Nordic cooperation is based on free movement, reduced border barriers, integration between countries and peoples, security and defence, democratic development and common values. Cooperation has helped to reduce border barriers and facilitate the living and working of residents in different countries. This cooperation has also strengthened the role and position of the region as an international player in the UN and in peace prevention in conflicts around the world. Madam President, I would like Regional cooperation takes place in several areas, such as culture, education, the environment and climate, security and defence and working life, etc. With free movement as the cornerstone, the links and integration between the countries and peoples of the Nordic region and the Baltic Sea region are strengthened. The goal is the world's most integrated region. Free movement and a common foundation of values are the main cornerstones of building trust and consensus, and they contribute to an understanding of each other's differences. The European Union was formed after two major world wars, when some countries decided to increase trust and consensus through trade, thus overcoming conflicts. This cooperation and this Union have developed over decades and resulted in 28 integrated Member States with over 500 million inhabitants enjoying free movement. As in the Nordic countries, the EU has made it possible for people to work, study and settle, as well as to run businesses, across borders with common laws and rules. Madam President, I would like The Nordic Council and cooperation are forerunners of greater peace and security and a good example for other regions of the world to set an example in terms of increasing integration and achieving democratic and economic development. Madam President, I would like Defence cooperation among Nordic countries helps to strengthen peace in the Nordic countries and has developed to such an extent that the Nordic defence forces can now operate in each other's maritime, air and land territories in peacetime. A common military and security policy becomes cost-effective, and the cooperation also strengthens our ability to act together if necessary. In view of Russia's actions in eastern Ukraine and the annexation of the Crimean Peninsula, mentioned earlier, security and defence cooperation around the Baltic Sea is particularly important. In a stable and more integrated Nordic region and with increased cooperation and more efficient exchange of information, we can together become better and more effective when it comes to meeting crisis situations and natural disasters. With a common voice in foreign and security policy and close cooperation with the Baltic countries, we are contributing to increased security in our eastern neighbourhood. Madam President, I would like The Arctic is growing rapidly in importance from a military, economic and climate perspective. Already today, the ice in the Arctic regions melts faster than previously predicted. The ice melting in the area due to global warming will have serious long-term climate consequences. If the ice melting continues at the same rate, it means that the Arctic will be ice-free most of the year within a decade, which means that economic activities will increase rapidly. It concerns shipping, fishing and oil and gas extraction. This opens up new trade routes, but at the same time risks triggering great power competition in terms of control over these new trade routes and the natural resources available in the Arctic. There is a great risk of increased militarisation of the region in the long term, Madam President. Russia has the majority of its bases for nuclear submarines on the Kola Peninsula. Russia has also chosen to expand its military presence in the Arctic by either opening new bases or building new ones on some of the other islands. For the United States, the Arctic is important for protection against intercontinental missiles, among other things. We see a number of countries claiming parts of the Arctic and today have some form of military activity in the region – a development that is dangerous and undesirable. Madam President, I would like For these reasons, the Christian Democrats welcome the fact that the Swedish Arctic Strategy emphasises the importance of the Arctic being and will remain a low-voltage area. But it is important that Sweden continues to work actively with relations within the Arctic Council, while monitoring issues related to climate, natural resources and security policy. Through cooperation and dialogue with all the countries concerned and with respect for international law, we can meet together the challenges facing the Arctic. Madam President, I would like In fact, I raised this issue at an international conference in Beirut. I mentioned Nordic cooperation and the European Union as an example of good cooperation. The Middle East and other regions that have long been affected by civil wars and conflicts need increased cooperation and economic exchange for sustainable development. Here, cooperation within the Nordic countries and the EU can set an important example of how democracy, respect for human rights and international law do not stop at national borders. Strengthening freedom of movement, regional cooperation and exchange contributes to a more integrated region. The Christian Democrats look forward to increased cooperation between the Nordic countries and in the Baltic Sea region. We will continue to protect Nordic cooperation. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of Amendment No 7.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-246	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations. Madam President, I would like Prime ministers in the Nordic countries have agreed that the Nordic region will be the world's most integrated region. It is a promise that gives hope, but it also requires action, decisions and resources. There are many pieces that must continue to be joined together in the mainly well-functioning Nordic cooperation. The Council of Ministers for Digitalization has one of the leading roles. Many northerners and even our Baltic friends are experiencing problems with digitalisation. These include accessibility to mobile services, legal mobile coverage, difficulties in getting in touch with authorities and more. A project is currently under way, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, where a common solution for an e-ID is being built where residents in the Nordic and Baltic countries can log in with the country's banking-id solution to a common portal where there is access to the countries' various authorities. I think that, Madam President, integration is real in the digital part of the promise of the world's most integrated region. Another part is access to and expansion of the 5G network. There is, of course, a discussion about how quickly it can be expanded and who will have access to 5G, and a discussion about security aspects so that foreign power will not – for example through technical equipment – be given opportunities for illegal interception and more. A third question concerns the right to personal data and the storage of personal data. Many Northers, and certainly also residents in other countries, express some concern about how the stored information is used and whether it is sold to the highest bidder – to organisations, companies or even states, which can later use this data to engage in, for example, influence operations. Just look to the United States and the last presidential election. But the Nordic countries are also affected by influence operations from troll factories that work on behalf of clients who want to so split and create polarisation and destabilisation to, for example, affect election exits. It is therefore important that the Nordic countries and the Baltic countries continue to cooperate on such security threats. Madam President, I would like Preventing and removing border barriers is still a priority for the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers. Last year, the Nordic countries' happiness solve 14 border barriers; that's really good. The Border Barriers Council, which reports to and works on behalf of the Nordic Council of Ministers, has the objective of identifying and proposing solutions to 8-12 border barriers per year. In order to continue promoting mobility and freedom of movement in the Nordic countries, governments must work urgently to prevent obstacles at all levels, as happened in 2018 under the Swedish Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. This must be done in contact with the relevant authorities, with the ear to the ground with border commuters and when introducing new legislation or revising existing legislation. The Nordic Council has also upgraded the same work to new levels. I have the privilege of chairing the Committee on Growth and Development of the Nordic Council. Some time ago, we have created an informal border barrier group with participants from all the other committees of the Nordic Council. The aim is to organise joint input in the various Nordic parliaments, so that the governments of the countries are reminded of the importance of preventing and removing border barriers. After a couple of years, the group has become established, and also present parliamentarians have contributed to raising the level of commitment to border barriers both in the respective party groups and in the different countries. Madam President, I would like I will mention a few thoughts about border-crossing infrastructure and transport. There are 26 – 27 different possible, developmentable project opportunities around the Nordic region with a focus on infrastructure and transport. One example is the Oslo-Gothenburg-Copenhagen train section with border crossings in Bohuslän, the so-called 8 million-by. The whole of this project could create very positive climate effects when heavy goods vehicles and heavy goods vehicles on the E6 are instead transferred so that freight transport is much more carried out by rail. This would also give the Port of Gothenburg an even stronger position as the largest and most important port in the Nordic region. One could also work even more intensively with the development of the Oslo – Stockholm section, which according to some assessors can run at 2.55 instead of the current 6 hours. However, there is currently an improvement, which is why things are going particularly slowly. More than 1.1 million passengers are transported by air between Stockholm and Oslo. For example, getting only a quarter to choose trains would create entirely new positive climate effects. New conditions are needed for cross-border infrastructure also in the northern parts of Sweden, Finland and Norway. When the Arctic changes, new conditions are opened for transport from the north by ship but also for transport from the Arctic region southwards shipping to the Baltic Sea and also to the Atlantic and North Sea. Finally, Madam President: the Nordic Council will support a very exciting application for a sporting event in the Nordic region in 2027. Six Nordic countries have jointly submitted a first application to arrange a women's World Cup in football in the different Nordic countries. It is an application that essentially reflects most of the things that unite us in the Nordic Council – sustainability, gender equality, equality, order of the economy and more. For a sports nerd like me, this is the melody of the future for this type of event. I would also like to extend a warm greeting to the Prime Minister to take on that baton.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-265	Madam President, I would like It is nice to come after Mr Pyry, who chairs the committee in which I am Vice-Chairman. That's good! Madam President, I would like Nordic cooperation has great opportunities to develop. There we can solve common problems or share solutions but also pursue certain issues in a more international context. There is great potential here in terms of climate solutions and energy – which is great in this – but also in terms of social and legal issues. As part of Nordic cooperation, we have the opportunity to take the lead on a number of issues that are common and to lead the way for the EU, among other things. This year we work with gender equality, among other things. There, the Nordic countries have been role models, although we still have goals to work towards. Common to the Nordic countries are the pay gap between women and men, the fact that women's dominated professions have less wage development than men dominated and the unequal power relations. We see it in health care, we see it in support of women entrepreneurs and we see it in the judicial system. On this point, the President of the Nordic Council mentions that we need to increase democratic participation in society, that the situation of women born abroad is particularly challenging and that all the Nordic countries have similar integration and inclusion challenges. I agree with the description, although I think I can find other nuances and descriptions than the President finds. Yes – democracy needs to be strengthened in our societies. This is particularly true of voting in the various countries. Although this was now the case in the European elections, there is a big difference from area to area in how people vote and whether they vote. It's not weird, really. Several countries have similar approaches to socially vulnerable areas, with a lack of long-term perspective, a lack of local democracy and the identification of the media and authorities. We are talking about both no-go zones and ghetto laws. Actually, we can do better. Foreign born women's situation is strengthened with safe and secure employment, not having to have lengthy asylum processes, that women who marry Nordic men should not be forced to live with them, despite violence, in order to stay here. In fact, it is the case for all women to have different and accessible ways out of violent relationships. I'm sure we can learn from each other here. The climate issue is a priority for us in the Nordic Green Left. There we have presented several proposals that could be pursued together, including the proposal for a membership of the Nordic Council to make its activities carbon neutral. We propose that an investigation be carried out into the annual climate emissions of the Nordic Council and an action plan on how to reduce emissions and achieve carbon neutral activities. We believe that the Nordic Council should set an example. We also presented a member proposal to phase out the extraction of fossil energy sources in the Nordic region. Unfortunately, the other groups are not willing to meet this. We call for cooperation on the planning and implementation of the decommissioning of fossil energy and to stop the extraction of fossil energy at a level equivalent to 20% of the known fossil reserves in the Nordic region. This may be too radical. But the global climate panel, IPCC, published a report in October 2018 on global warming. According to the panel's experts, the difference between 1.5 degree heating and 2 degree heating is enormous. At a 2 degree climate warming, our lives, ecosystems and other species around the world are affected with devastating consequences. Many are at risk of being without food due to reduced harvests. This is something we need to keep working on. The Nordic Green Left has also highlighted human rights issues such as stopping adoptions from dictatorships and legally insecure countries, allowing sexual minorities to donate blood and not to deport to dangerous countries. The Left Party has no reservation on the matter. We call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-279	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! A few weeks ago I had the pleasure of meeting the entire Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council for the first time since I became Nordic Minister of Cooperation. Earlier this year, I had also met the Bureau of the Swedish delegation. I wish the Presidency every success and look forward to continued good cooperation and a substantial week of plenary sessions, week 44, here in Stockholm this autumn. Today, I am here to talk about what happened in the Nordic government cooperation during 2018, with the starting point in the letter we submitted to the Riksdag in mid-March. But I would also like to look ahead and talk about the exciting stage we are in right now in developing a new vision and strategic priorities for Nordic cooperation. Let me begin by highlighting some parts of the letter that deserve particular attention. During 2018, the Government was responsible for leading five regional cooperation bodies: the Nordic Council of Ministers, MB8, i.e. cooperation between the Nordic and Baltic countries in various formations, M5, which are the Nordic countries, the Council of the Baltic Sea States and the Barents Council. The Government has used the Presidency to promote cooperation in a number of priority areas: digitalisation, sustainability, border barriers, gender equality and strengthening cooperation with the Baltic States. Digitisation cooperation is particularly interesting, as it can contribute to solutions in a number of other areas. The hub in this collaboration is the Nordic-Baltic Council of Ministers for Digitalization, which was founded in 2017. A key task is to achieve the objective of mutual recognition of eIDs in the Nordic and Baltic countries within the framework of the EU Digital Single Market. We have now come so far that we expect to have the technical conditions in place for this already next year. Another important issue is the cooperation around 5G. The Prime Ministers' declaration that the Nordic region will become the world's first integrated 5G region has now been translated into an action plan that we are in the process of implementing. Digital solutions can also enable improved remote care and electronic prescriptions that work across borders. That is why we launched a special Presidency project in 2018, which runs for three years, focusing precisely on this. The climate issue is the major challenge of our time. As the country holding the presidency, Sweden has made a special effort to promote climate-smart mobility within and between our countries and to promote Nordic sustainability solutions in construction and design. Last year, as part of our cooperation programme for Agenda 2030, the first regional youth meeting on sustainable consumption and production was organised with participants from all over the Baltic Sea region. In January 2019, the Nordic Ministers of State and Climate Change adopted a declaration on carbon neutrality, which is now being translated into a concrete action plan. At the same time, the cornerstone of our cooperation remains to strengthen all forms of exchange between our countries and to remove the obstacles to deeper integration. No less than 14 border barriers between our countries were resolved last year, largely thanks to the methodical work of the Border Barriers Council and strengthened mandates. We are still working to resolve the issue of coordination numbers, which are complex and broader than the part that only affects foreign property owners. Our ambition is to strengthen cooperation with the Baltic countries. It has also started to produce results, not least in the area of digitalisation, as I have already mentioned. Other areas of cooperation with the Baltic countries that are progressing are energy, research, social and health issues. Gender equality and non-discrimination issues have been a consistently Swedish priority during the Presidency year, with the start of the Metoo movement. Several ministers have been involved. We have also worked closely with our Baltic neighbours, and we continue to do so. At the beginning of 2019, a debate tour was held in all Nordic countries to gather experiences from the year and find tools for change. From what I understand, this tour will culminate in a special event during the session week here in Stockholm this autumn, which is gratifying. The Nordic Council of Ministers, together with the OECD, has also launched a report on the positive impact of gender equality reforms in the Nordic countries on economic growth, which has had a major impact. We have also recently decided to initiate cooperation within the Nordic Council of Ministers on LGBT issues, and I am personally very pleased about that. I am very pleased that on Saturday I will take the lead and also give a speech on the Baltic Pride Week in Vilnius. Let me move on to where we stand now, in which direction the government wants to take Nordic cooperation. We are in the process of agreeing on an updated vision and adopting multiannual strategic priorities for the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers. The background is that we want to get clearer and fewer goals that are easy to follow up. In order to strengthen civic support, we also want to see more visible and effective Nordic cooperation. The vision should apply in the longer term and set the direction. The Government's proposals are as follows: The Nordic region will become the world's most sustainable and integrated region by 2030, and three strategic multiannual priorities will respond to the vision. These can be changed three to four years apart and must be as sharp as possible. Our three priorities are linked to the joint declarations adopted by the Ministers of State that the Nordic region will become the world's most integrated region that is both carbon neutral and a forerunner in 5G and digitalisation. Our proposals are as follows: When I meet my Nordic colleagues in Iceland before midsummer, we will make a decision on this. Everyone has a little different priorities, but I think we'll get along. Then it is time for the Ministers of State to take the final decision at their meeting in August. During the autumn this will then be concrete in implementation plans. It is hoped that the priorities will have an impact as early as next year, but that the budget will have a full impact from 2021 onwards. Thank you for listening!
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-300	Madam President, I would like The Government warmly wished the delegation to the Nordic Council good luck, and I think it takes on board and thank you very much for that. I even believe that the delegation wishes you well. One does not know in what capacity the Government will appear in week 44 at the session in Stockholm. Much can happen, Madam President, and it would not be wrong if we could have the Council of State as Swedish Commissioner for European Affairs. In that case, she is most welcome to the Nordic Council session in Stockholm. I have a few questions. First of all, I would like to mention this with digitisation, 5G, and to develop an action plan. Mr Niemi touched on the security of his speech. I think it is central and would just like to ask how much this has come into the discussion with regard to Nordic 5G. It is quite clear that several countries are now discussing the threat picture that exists from other countries. The Swedish Government has also initiated work to avoid certain suppliers for purely defence and security reasons. It also refers to the development of multi-annual strategic priorities and different forms of vision. I think that is basically a good thing. However, I wonder whether the Government and the Government have reflected on how to anchor it. It is one thing to agree on it, but should it then be submitted to the parliaments of the different countries or should it be in the Nordic Council? The experience at the moment, Madam President, is that it is not anchored anywhere. I myself have mentioned the example of Nordefco's vision plan. It is excellent, but it has not been anchored in the Nordic Council and is not anchored in the respective national parliaments. In conclusion, I assume that the Government intends to come back to the Swedish Parliament with regard to an Arctic strategy. Then I would just like to remind you that it would be a good idea to have a broader grasp of it – including the security aspects, which are becoming increasingly visible in the Arctic region.
i-8aEF58gafp8hPuFJbqEenC	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Hans Wallmark! When it comes to 5G and safety, what we are doing right now is the purely technical elements, so that we can cooperate with 5G. Among other things, we have said which frequency bands may be appropriate. I don't need to list them, but there are three different – this is so that it won't be like the railway tracks in the Nordic countries, which are different in width. You have to be able to work together. It is also about us having about the same rate of expansion, so that we do not come at different stages, and that we should not have regulatory barriers, for example in terms of permits and the granting of space for buildings at the set-up of 5G masts. Then I assume that we will discuss security together. At the moment, the government has raised this issue in relation to the Swedish 5G expansion, so that both Säpo and the Swedish Armed Forces will be involved. With regard to the visions and how to anchor this, during my discussion with the Swedish delegation of the Nordic Council, I outlined the various proposals – both the vision and the three priorities – and felt that I met with an acceptance of them. Then, of course, when it becomes clear to be discussed again with the Swedish delegation of the Nordic Council. As I said, these are the Swedish proposals; they are not ready yet. Then we'll come back. When it comes to the Arctic...
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-308	Madam President, I would like I fully agree that it is a good thing that we have a Nordic dimension when it comes to the 5G extension. I think the North can get very far. There is an ambitious vision on the part of the Nordic governments. We are in complete agreement on this point. However, there is a danger if you just turn it into technology. For example, we have seen this with the Russian gas pipeline Nord Stream 2. It's not just technology, it's not just a pipeline, it's not just a technical solution for 5G. There is always this security and defence aspect. That is why I think it is important that we raise it in the Nordic debate, just as we do in the national debate. I hope that we have a joint, coordinated and ongoing roll-out of 5G but that we do not ignore the security policy threats that also lie in it. Then I agree that it is good that these visions exist. I also know that the Government has participated in meetings with, among other things, the delegation of the Nordic Council. However, there is a difference between the closed meeting room and the open chamber debate. When these types of joint vision documents are drawn up between several countries, it is easy for them to fall between the chairs. It is not anchored in the respective parliaments, but it is also not anchored in the Nordic Council. It is possible to meet some parliamentarians in closed meeting rooms, but it is not the same as having an audience, general and general debate that the public and the media can follow. That is why, Madam President, I would like to emphasise the importance and value of lifting some things from the closed sitting room to the open debate that we are holding in this House. That's my encouragement. After all, the Minister left a cliffhanger, Madam President, saying that she would tell us something central about Arctic cooperation and the Arctic strategy. Then I think she will say that Parliament will of course have the opportunity to discuss the Arctic strategy.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-313	Madam President, I would like I'll start from behind so I can do it. As far as the Arctic Strategy is concerned, I am not the responsible Minister. However, the current Swedish Arctic Strategy dates from 2011, and the Foreign Minister has pointed out in the Foreign Declaration that it will be updated. This will begin this autumn, and the Riksdag will be kept informed in various ways. I must also point out that we have an Arctic ambassador, Björn Lyrvall, former ambassador in Washington, who is very happy to come and talk about this. With regard to the 5G issue, we fully agree that security issues are very important. I shall ensure that, on the basis of this debate, I return to Minister Ygeman, who is sitting in the Digitalisation Council, that this has been raised in Parliament's Chamber. I also think it is important to have an open discussion. Now I've told you about our priorities here today, so it's been very open. Then we come back after the midsummer meeting, when we know what happened after the points and discussions of the other countries. I look forward to coming back to Parliament then.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-317	Madam President, I would like In recent years, mental illness in children and young people has been an important issue in Nordic cooperation. Mental ill health among young people is one of the biggest public health challenges in the Nordic region. The project Children and Children's Mental Health in the Nordic countries at the Nordic Welfare Centre aims to help the Nordic countries develop and safeguard the quality of the efforts in which the welfare sector supports vulnerable children and young people. Six dialogue meetings were held in 2016 and 2017 in the Nordic region, and each dialogue meeting was organised in cooperation with local and national actors in the country where the meeting was held. The overall focus was early intervention and cross-sectoral cooperation. The areas discussed were governed by contextual needs in each country. In addition to practitioners, researchers and officials at municipalities and authorities among others, children and young people who are at risk of mental illness were with and got their voices heard. The Nordic Welfare Centre has summarized the most important messages from these meetings in a shorter film that was launched in 2018. The importance of a child and youth perspective was one of the most central issues, as it is the children and young people who really know what it means to be young today. We often talk about children and young people but not with them. We need to help children and young people find their strengths, and we need to believe in their abilities. Like everyone else, they also want to feel needed. School is another major source of concern. It is the place where we spend many hours and years, and there are thousands of opportunities to help and support those individuals who are about to end up wrong. From the children and young people who shared their perspective, a desire emerged that teachers and school staff should work every day to strengthen each student's self-esteem. Research and experience-based knowledge have shown that successful schooling is the most important factor in the safety and well-being of all young people. During all dialogue meetings, the importance of raising awareness of positive mental health was discussed, and a desire emerged that work to strengthen mental and physical well-being should be part of the daily work of employees in preschools and schools. There is a great need for easily accessible support activities for young people who do not feel well but do not feel bad enough to be caught up in health care. For some children and young people, it is enough to meet engaged adults, but others need more long-term support from psychologists or curators, for example. In Reykjavik and Tórshavn, the thematic areas discussed most frequently were the importance of early intervention and better cooperation between different sectors. Mariehamn discussed the need for easily accessible support activities. Drammen focused on the government's strategy for good mental health, and in Stockholm the focus was student health and the importance of civil society as a complementary actor. There has also been a focus on a report that was submitted on behalf of the project Youth into the Nordic Region – mental health, work and education. It was carried out in collaboration with Nordlandsforskning and was coordinated by the Nordic Welfare Centre. Quality interview studies were conducted in Iceland, the Faroe Islands and Norway with young people in vulnerable life situations in the context of education, work experience and mental health. The report then analysed and described how young people themselves experience their situation and how public authorities and service providers in the welfare sector in the countries describe challenges, actions and actions within this group. The aim was, among other things, to identify which investments decision-makers in the Nordic countries need to make in order to improve the welfare of young people in the Nordic region. Madam President, I would like Nordic cooperation plays an important role in this difficult and complex area. Supporting and exchanging experiences can do much for the work in the individual Nordic countries. Our children and young people are the future and should also be treated that way. Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-326	Madam President, I would like Rarely do you feel as at home as when you wake up in Helsinki or perhaps in Oslo or Riga. And rarely are you so avian in another country as when you get home on winding streets between the houses on a late night in Copenhagen, happy in mind and with a red puddle in your hand. Surely it would be really wonderful if we were simply a country and could have Swedish equality, Norwegian wealth and natural wealth, Finnish peace work and Danish entertainment and perhaps even Danish labour market legislation in one! But we are not there yet, and before we lower the Swedish flag and lift the Nordic flag, I want to beat a blow for deeper Nordic and Baltic cooperation. It is clear that we who are in this region share many challenges and many values that make it easy for us to find solutions. We need to erase and loosen all the borders between our countries. We need to increase the level of defence cooperation. We're not good at the same things. It is natural to increase cooperation between the countries of this region so that we can share each other's abilities and become stronger together. Madam President, I would like It is also natural for us to cooperate on defence issues because we have a common interest in the Baltic Sea and not least in the Arctic. We also have the ability, if we combine our bags, to go a long way in terms of innovation and climate. It would be good if we could actually deepen cooperation there too. For example, we will need Norwegian bedrock if we are to collect and store all the carbon dioxide we need to store in order to save the climate. We also need to be a common and even stronger voice for democracy, human rights and LGBT issues throughout the world. We need to blur the boundaries of the labour market between our Nordic countries so that it becomes easier to live in one country and work in another. Madam President, I would like I will call for the committee's proposal to be approved – we do not have a reservation of our own – but I want to do so with an emphase. I hope that we will continue to loosen all cultural and linguistic borders between our countries, that we will continue to deepen our cooperation, that we will continue to ensure that the legislation becomes more similar so that it becomes easier to enter and move across borders and that we will continue to become a common Nordic region that can actually stand up for our common values in the world as well.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-333	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 from the Moderates. Of course, we support all our other reservations. In 2018, goods exports in Sweden amounted to SEK 1,442 billion. Europe and mainly the EU is the largest market for Swedish export goods. We export most to Germany and then Norway, Finland, Denmark and the USA. The fact that there is now a slowdown in the economy is a fact. Uncertainty about where the global economic cycle is going is evident. The growth in world trade in 2018 was relatively weak, and the current trade conflicts are increasing uncertainty about the future. What is happening is not a Swedish or a European phenomenon, but a global one. It is global in nature in such a way that value chains are interrelated, and they are affected when changes occur. We are facing a number of challenges such as slowdown in economic activity, protectionism and possibly an impending trade war. Protectionism is one of the biggest threats to a well-functioning world trade and Swedish exports. Growth in Sweden is threatened if markets are closed and trading partners withdraw from external competition. For 11 years, protectionism in the world has increased. Sweden needs to be a driving force in maintaining free trade and strengthening ties globally. Within the EU, it is extremely important that Sweden is a clear player in order for markets for the services sector to develop and broaden. In addition, mobility is developing in several digital services and goods sectors. In parallel with this discussion, trade disputes are escalating. During the month of May, we have been able to monitor the increase in the trade dispute between the United States and China, for example with customs duties on Chinese export goods worth USD 200 billion. Customs duties have been increased from 10% to 25%. On Twitter, which seems to be the American President's favorite communication tool, Donald Trump announced that on June 10, the United States will impose customs duties of 5 percent on all goods coming in from Mexico. It will take place until illegal immigration to the United States ceases. Even within the EU there are uncertainties that contribute to a more difficult situation, not least because of all the questions about Brexit that have a new deadline this autumn. Theresa May has filed her resignation and is leaving her post as Prime Minister on Friday, 7 June. Germany is facing a shift with Merkel. France has the yellow vests, and there is uncertainty in Italy. If the UK leaves the Union without a new agreement, we can expect tangible consequences for the Swedish economy; the UK is an important trading partner for Swedish companies. With regard to the relationship between the EU and the UK after its withdrawal, the ambition must be to bring about the greatest possible free trade conditions with the UK. That would be a good thing, both for the Union and especially for us. Restrictive barriers to trade, such as customs duties, quotas and standardisation, must be avoided as far as possible. In a context of more slowdown and recession, not only protectionism but also uncertainties such as the fact that countries may find it difficult to cope with twitching and sudden changes due to public debt in many parts of the world. It affects payment possibilities and investments. Trade agreements are also becoming more bilateral. It is a direct consequence of the fact that the Doha Agreement has not become a reality, as some dominant trading nations use trade as geopolitical measures to achieve their objectives. In the harsh world, positive things are also happening. The EU has signed a trade agreement with Japan. It came into force in February of this year. It is a signal of openness. The agreement is the largest free trade agreement ever and will create opportunities for jobs and growth in the future. The world needs more such agreements. The Moderates look forward to their coming into place. Madam President, I would like Sweden is affected by export dependence but also by imports. The Swedish base industry is responsible for a significant part of Swedish goods exports. In our country, a number of companies linked to industry are affected by its ups and downs, and with them small and medium-sized enterprises that are subcontractors or themselves sell products and services are also affected internationally and nationally. In the automotive industry, companies such as SKF, Atlas Copco and Haldex can be mentioned. Raw materials prices have been pointing and turning downwards, affecting companies such as LKAB and Boliden, two companies in the global market. Sweden, in particular the government, needs to be on its toes and continue to be a player who is at the forefront of development and one of the main export nations. The business community says there's murderous competition. They live on less and less margins, as buyers are making increasing demands. Supply guarantees and large investments need to be made in view of the climate track, and great unpredictability affects industry. Madam President, I would like Access to efficient, clean energy and clean technologies are, in the long term, key factors for the world's sustainable development. Swedish clean technology is of high quality and has the potential to achieve internationally leading success. The Moderates see that carbon-free electricity offers great opportunities for Sweden. But investment is needed, and it is extremely important that industry has the right conditions to invest and build on with innovation and technological leaps. It can contribute to the achievement of climate goals while enabling new jobs and export opportunities for industry. The government should therefore be on its toes also when it comes to Sweden being a country where you can trust that there is electricity 24:7, without interruption. Electricity supply should also increase at the rate described in terms of the need for new electricity supply that is greater than our current use. It is also extremely important not to pull the carpet abruptly. Throughout history, Sweden has been groundbreaking. It has created our prosperity. We can continue to be in old markets as well as in new industries with robotics, artificial intelligence and digitalisation. Another area where Sweden could deliver is in UN procurements. A reference, although it has a few years' neck, is that the UN 2014 procured goods and services for SEK 150 billion. Only 0.16 per cent came from Sweden. If Sweden were to be on to get these procurements that build function, Sweden could gain significant success. Over the years, chambers of commerce have also built competence and resource centres for Swedish companies that want to be introduced for and start selling to the UN. By purchasing export advisory services, Swedish companies would gain experience that could lead to them winning the procurements and making good use of the UN track. Madam President, I would like The Moderates also want Sweden to work for the green free trade agreement Environmental Goods Agreement to be as comprehensive as possible and for tariffs on climate-smart goods to be lowered or completely removed. The Moderates also stress the importance of seeing welfare services as an export strategy. The trade in services accounts for about a quarter of Sweden's total trade. Freedom of choice reforms in Sweden have created curiosity and demand in other countries, not least Germany, and are an important part of service exports. It is necessary for welfare companies to be able to use the domestic market as references to procurement. The government should both stimulate the export of welfare services and highlight the activities and content that create added value in the country. Unfortunately, the Red-Green Government does not see services as a crucial competitive advantage in the export strategy. That is regrettable. Another emerging industry is the tourism and tourism industry. One cannot help but wonder what the Red-Green Government really wants with its duality. On the one hand, it's supposed to be a flight tax. On the other hand, runways will be built. Farm sales of wine could also become a reality if you don't let it drag on. Madam President, I would like We note that customs duties reduce trade and have a negative impact on economic development. This also applies to political uncertainty. The world economy is currently struggling with both problems. It is important that the government gives Sweden the right conditions to be an attractive country for industrial and small and medium-sized enterprises.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-358	Madam President, I would like We have now begun the debate on the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 13, Trade Policy. I would like to begin my speech by calling for the approval of reservation 2 by the Swedish Democrats on certain issues relating to international trade. As is well known, the Swedish Democrats are a trade-friendly party that has repeatedly exercised in Parliament about the importance of Sweden working for an open and free trade and counteracting protectionism. Our broad trade policy was seen not least in the elections to the European Parliament, which just took place. We went to elections on an election platform that emphasised everything from the value of the EU getting additional free trade agreements in place to the need for a reform of the World Trade Organisation and the objective added value of combating non-tariff barriers of various kinds. Madam President, I would like We simply realise that a well-functioning trade is directly crucial for an export-dependent nation like Sweden. Exports make up such a large part of our economy that the value of exports of our goods and services represents almost half of Sweden's total GDP, as much as 47 percent. These are figures that would be difficult to achieve if it were not for the great role played by the EU's internal market in our trading conditions. Thanks to the internal market, we have been able to jointly abolish tariff barriers and actively promote the minimisation of non-tariff barriers to trade within the Union. The fight against barriers to trade, together with the continuous work to create synergies, has resulted in the development of the internal market and the creation of growth and prosperity. I may now speak in a little too general terms, Madam President. It is no secret that Swedish growth in terms of GDP per capita has been almost non-existent in the near future. I think we can blame that on the internal market. It is more about the anti-growth policy pursued here in Sweden. Nevertheless, we shall of course safeguard the excellence of the internal market. At the same time, however, we must oppose federalist dreams of a single banking union with a single deposit guarantee and a single large currency zone across the Union. In my view, there is no contradiction here, Madam President. You do not become a protectionist or anti-tradeist just because you do not want to outsource your monetary policy or see an EU that interferes in Swedish wage setting and pension. To say so is directly intellectually dishonest, if you ask me. In addition to the EU's internal market, Sweden's trade conditions are obviously affected by the free trade agreements that the EU is negotiating on our behalf. The Swedish Democrats are behind the EU's exclusive competence to establish free trade agreements and understand the importance of putting themselves at the negotiating table with the 28, soon 27, states. We therefore hope that the forthcoming Commission will give priority to this work, while at home we will always work to ensure that Swedish interests and our comparative advantages are acknowledged by the Swedish Government in future negotiations. The aim is to generate the greatest possible benefit for Swedish companies and, by extension, the Swedish economy as a whole. On the Swedish Democrats' side, we are therefore deeply pleased that the Commission has now been given the green light to reopen trade negotiations with the United States. Sweden certainly does not benefit from an intensified global trade war, which is why it is crucial to sit at the negotiating table with the United States for both us and others. This applies not least at a time of tensions between the United States and China as a consequence of the fact that the United States actually dares to speak out about trade policy and the interests behind it. Shortly after the United States on the list of Sweden's main trading partners, the United Kingdom is located, just before China. In 2018, our goods exports to the United Kingdom amounted to a total of SEK 81.8 billion. However, the future of our trade relationship with Britain is uncertain. On our part, it is a matter of course to respect the will of the British people. It is a question of standing up for the referendum that has taken place and ensuring delivery of the resignation that has been given by the people to carry out. This is not the case with regard to the way in which various European federalists take the view on the matter. We can continue to hope for an orderly exit that creates both sustainable and long-term ground rules for Sweden's and the EU's trade relations with the UK. But I think it would just be to live on hope. In just a few weeks' time, the Nigel Party of Nigel Farages managed to completely overturn the political playing field in Britain and became by far the largest party in the European elections with its full 31.6%. It generates almost 50 per cent more members than Sweden has in total. It can be thought of. Madam President, I would like My point is that there is much evidence of a Brexit without an agreement. If that were the case, the EU could act in two different ways. It can either take the form of a vengeful ex who is doing his utmost to distance himself from and punish Britain, not least to set an example for the future. Or it acts in line with what the Swedish Democrats advocate by doing its utmost to establish a well-functioning trade relationship with the UK. It is in our trade policy interests, and anything else would be both petty and directly detrimental to the Swedish economy. Sweden needs trade, and trade needs politicians who create good conditions by strengthening Swedish competitiveness, by safeguarding our sectors and industries on the international stage, and who are committed to free and fair trade globally. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are just such politicians.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-376	Madam President, I would like This is my first speech in this House, and I would like to say it for six minutes. Of course, the Center Party supports our reservations in the report, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 11. I visited Lagan Plåtprodukter recently. They are experts at pressing and designing in sheet metal. It may seem simple, but it is actually an advanced activity. Among other things, they deliver details to brand new car models. It has turned out that this company in Ljungby municipality succeeds in what no one in China or in any other country can do: to press a given sheet metal detail in a single piece. Lagan Plåtprodukter is one of all these small and medium-sized companies in Sweden that is extremely dependent on the global market for their profitability and thus as a job creator in Sweden. Forests and other basic industries are the foundations of our prosperity building. The value of the forest today amounts to about one fifth of Sweden's GDP, and the forest annually delivers 10 percent of the value of the country's goods exports. Every fifth invested krona in Swedish industry comes from the forest industry, which has the potential to grow with new processed products. Companies do not live in isolation but are connected in advanced food chains that lead to products and services in a way that makes Sweden a leading trading nation. Trade policy, when reading public documents, may seem rather abstract. But everything boils down to creating good conditions for companies and their employees. Therefore, we must constantly reflect on the impact of these international processes, such as trade agreements and negotiations, on, for example, Lagan Plåtprodukter in Lagan, Ljungby, Småland, Sweden and Europe. Madam President, I would like I would like to point out that the Center Party has a positive view of EU cooperation. We want to see a global Europe that takes responsibility and works together on cross-border issues such as free trade, human rights, democracy, migration and security. Swedish companies and consumers, together with the rest of the EU, are one of the world's most attractive markets. It provides opportunities for the EU to negotiate advanced trade agreements with a variety of countries and regions in the world. For Sweden, as a relatively small country dependent on exports, EU trade policy is crucial. Therefore, more and more ambitious agreements are needed which, in addition to removing tariffs and tariffs, harmonise standards and protect investments. A large part of what is produced in Sweden is exported and thus contributes significantly to the country's economy. This is both a challenge and an opportunity for Swedish food production, for example. Swedish quality and good Swedish animal welfare have spread throughout the world. Sweden and the EU should not waive high standards in areas such as the environment, food, antibiotics, animal husbandry, health and consumer protection when trade agreements are signed. Trade and sustainability, in my view, are closely linked. When Swedish export credits are used and the public helps with export-related measures, it is a matter of course to protect the environment and sustainability. Investment in fossil projects must stop and more green technologies must be highlighted. Madam President, I would like The EU is the world's largest integrated market. The increased movement of goods, services, people and capital made possible by the EU has contributed to growth and job creation, not least in Sweden. However, the EU and its Member States face major challenges. Renewal of Member States' economies, such as labour market reforms and cutting red tape, is necessary to strengthen competitiveness. This renewal process requires more of what once made the Member States successful: trade and transparency. The Center Party believes that measures need to be taken to further open the internal market. In particular, it is important to create a digital single market with strong net neutrality, which is ultimately about reducing transaction costs and improving trade and cohesion in a digital age. We would like to stress that a well-functioning internal market in the European Union is of great importance in terms of increased opportunities for people to exercise their consumer power. It is a means of, for example, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and contributing to the necessary transformation of the transport sector. Measures to facilitate and enable consumer choice include, for example, visibility of the sustainability characteristics of different fuels, fair life cycle requirements for both fossil and renewable fuels by the EU, and origin labelling of the fuel at the pump. Proposals in this direction have been put forward by the Center Party in several other contexts. With regard to trade in certain products in the EU internal market, we would like to stress here that an energy declaration on passenger cars should be introduced in the case of new car sales. This would, in our opinion, contribute to more conscious choices at the gas station and at the car dealership. There is great potential throughout the country to increase trade but also to attract investment and skilled employees to us. It's connected. The report shows that work is under way to strengthen the supply of skills by focusing on staff from other countries. Various government agencies, such as the Migration Agency, Business Sweden and Swedish municipalities, are mentioned here. I miss a key player in this discussion on the basis of the documents we have received: the Swedish higher education system. Universities have students who through exchange programmes study here, take root and can very well imagine a civil career in Sweden. Unfortunately, in my previous roles I have met too many talented people who see opportunities but who are met by a bureaucracy mountain when the only thing they really want is to do right for themselves and create values for themselves, their family and the company they work at. This whole area must be simplified for both human and economic reasons. Madam President, I would like It is vital that we continue to work towards transparency, for confidence in the capacity of international regulations and for confidence in free trade, and that this brings mutual gain. In a world where there are obviously forces that want to move towards solitude, I want us to move towards transparency and clear and transparent regulations. It wins Swedish companies, and it wins our trading partners on wherever in the world they are.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-394	Madam President, I would like I asked for the floor on the occasion that Per Schöldberg began his speech with the small company Lagan Plåtprodukter in Ljungby. There are many small and medium-sized enterprises that play a role in trade, and they are a cog in a larger wheel and do good service to Sweden. This also includes a living countryside and being able to live, live and work in places outside the Great Aden. The tourism industry is a large part of this, and here comes the question of the sale of wine on farms. On 2 May last year, an announcement was made to the government that it will work towards a new alcohol legislation that means that Systembolaget's monopoly can be protected while it will be possible to conduct farm sales in Sweden. The Center Party has signed up with the government to deal with this matter so that it can become a reality. The Minister's answer has been to start an investigation next year. Will the Center set out a goal for introducing farm sales? Will the Center ensure that the investigation takes place promptly and does not end up in a moth bag?
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-399	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Ann-Charlotte for the question; it is important to many of us. We have been pushing for farm sales for quite a few years. I have no ambition other than to quickly produce a basis. However, there is a complexity around Systembolaget, the threat to the monopoly and so on. The Center Party wants to introduce farm sales because it can be part of good rural development.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-402	Madam President, I would like The drink companies provide 5 500 jobs, as well as subcontracting and service activities. So a single job can generate ten. It feels urgent to get this in place after so long. However, there is no clear confidence that this will happen, so it will be up to evidence now. I will follow this issue closely, and I hope that the Centre Party will do its job with the government. I'll lie down too.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-404	Madam President, I would like It is also in my interest to ensure that there is a good basis for achieving this. Not least in my area– I've been to Öland to see vineyards and so on – the creation of supply chains and systems would stimulate local sales. There I have seen several examples of strangeness. In addition, on the spot you could buy the drink that you see in front of your eyes. I therefore have no objection or problem with this. But without working on the issue, I realize that it may take some time to get all the details in order for it to be sustainable in the long term.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-406	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 7. We have a complex situation in the world today. We see that climate change is becoming more and more tangible. We see an increase in the murders of environmental and indigenous activists – as silent dictatorships where elections are held as usual, but in silence it is murdered. We also see the strengthening of undemocratic forces. It may sometimes seem bleak. Sweden is dependent on trade. Much of what we use daily would not be here or could be produced here if it were not for trade. Many of our companies depend on both importing and exporting. Many of them have global value chains, and global value chains have a major impact on both growth and employment both here and in other countries. It is positive that companies should carry out impact assessments, so-called due diligence, in order to prevent negative consequences in the Entrepreneurship and Human Rights Action Plan. Unfortunately, however, these binding regulations or clear mechanisms for accountability are lacking, which has led to criticism from several organisations working on human rights. The examples are many. The food trade, mining and clothing industries bear witness to wages under the poverty line, child labour and exposure to pollution that leads to disease, poisoned water and poisoned soil. For example, last week we read that one of India's largest pharmaceutical producers forced workers to leave the union and even attacked workers. This company collaborates with, among others, Novo Nordisk, which has its head office in Denmark and offices in Sweden and is a member of the research pharmaceutical company organisation Lif. H & M promised to improve, but has not really done anything to increase the wages of textile workers or demanded that cotton producers in China should not use forced labour. When the question of forced labour is put to H & M, the answer is: We work in the same way with suppliers in all markets to ensure that they all sign up to our sustainability obligations and comply with national laws. We use due diligence to identify and address risks related to forced labour. Things belong together, both exploitation and prize hunting. This also applies to competition between companies that respect human rights all the way and companies that make profits by violating human rights. We must be able to do better here by revising action plans and binding agreements for multinational companies. I therefore believe that we should support motions 723 and 757. Sweden is engaged in extensive trade and investment promotion work that is regulated at national level. Audits carried out by Amnesty and Diakonia reveal major shortcomings in the transparency of the Export Credit Board, while the same Board of High Values supports investment in and trade in dictatorships. Here, too, we see evidence today that it does not work. Many of us are critical of the Export Credit Board's guarantee as a secure investment in a gas plant in the Arctic because indigenous peoples are hard hit and methane gas is at risk of being released. Although the Government has added in the regulatory letter that the Export Credit Board should ensure that the activities are conducted in accordance with the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the UN Principles on Business and Human Rights, there is still much to be done to ensure that these wordings are also visible in practice. The Left Party therefore has a reservation in which we want to lift motion 757, but we choose not to ask for approval on this occasion. On the other hand, we will put an interpellation to the government on this point.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-419	Madam President, I would like In the past election campaign for the European Parliament, as a candidate, I had the privilege of repeatedly debating colleagues of Mr Delgado. Time and again, I also became concerned about the almost hostile attitude they seemed to have toward growth and trade. The electoral platform on which the Left Party was elected expressed, among other things, that the current EU trade policy creates gaps and increases inequalities; we want a larger share of the EU budget to go to a development policy based on solidarity and equality. ..................................................... Firstly, I do not agree with the view that trade increases injustice. On the contrary, it is obviously a prerequisite for many countries, not least developing countries, to have a functioning trade with the outside world. That is how we create the incentives and conditions for these states to emerge from poverty, create growth and prosperity and thereby strengthen living conditions in the country. Secondly, I am opposed to the fact that the Left Party wishes to focus on aid over trade and also to increase the aid budget at European level. Madam President, I would like Following the vote of the European Parliament on 27 March this year, it is proposed to increase the amount of aid proposed in the next long-term EU budget – a total allocation of almost EUR 100 billion. If you ask me, EUR 100 billion is a far too large aid budget, which should in no way increase. Member Delgado Varas is welcome to describe how EU trade policy creates gaps and injustices, and whether around SEK 1 000 billion of EU aid is insufficient in the next long-term budget.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-425	Madam President, I would like I will not go into budgetary matters. However, I can say that there are problems that we need to take into account in relation to the trade agreements that the EU has with other countries. I have met both workers from the food industry in Ecuador and farmers from Ecuador who have lost their source of income. This has led to great poverty among indigenous peoples, for example, through agreements concluded with the EU where some of the products are actually more accessible than farmers' own products in their countries. I can give a number of examples of trade agreements that cause the indigenous peoples and small farmers in particular to be in very bad shape. It is clear that we should have trade agreements, but I believe that the way forward to support the countries is to have a reasonably equal approach to trade agreements. We don't have that today. The EU is a great power apparatus compared to the countries with which agreements are concluded. There must be a fair assessment of these countries to see how we can strengthen, for example, women's and indigenous peoples' rights and environmental concerns and whether we should really use trade agreements as a tool for strengthening countries outside the EU and also be able to take part in the trade they offer.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-429	Madam President, I would like Of course, we agree that we should reasonably make clear demands on third countries with which we conclude bilateral free trade agreements in terms of promoting further democratisation, gender equality, climate action and so on. It is perfectly reasonable to make such demands, not least in a situation where third countries generally earn much more from free trade agreements than the EU does because they are not as developed as we are and because we are, moreover, a larger economy. However, one condition for getting this in place is actually to vote in favour of free trade agreements when they come on the table in the European Parliament, but this has consistently chosen to refrain from doing so. It was not at all intended to get free trade agreements in place that could have generated what Mr Delgado is now calling for, i.e. greater democratisation and more gender equality and climate action. One prerequisite for making these demands is, of course, having agreements in place, and the Left Party has tried to oppose this. My question remains: Is it reasonable, as the Left Party did in its election platform, to express that we should focus more on aid and increase that budget line? Is the proposed EUR 93 billion not enough? It is about SEK 140 billion each year during the seven-year period. Is not SEK 140 billion enough for the EU to spend in aid each year? Could Mr Delgado prove that there is a free trade agreement that has actually increased the gaps and created more injustices, rather than creating growth, getting people out of poverty and creating better living conditions, as free trade is meant to do, and as a general rule, are the practical consequences of free trade? Is there a free trade agreement that has largely worsened the situation of the citizens concerned? That would be very interesting to hear, Madam President.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-434	Madam President, I would like Overall, if we are to look at actual figures, free trade agreements will certainly benefit many countries. But you can look a little closer, and this I invite you to do, Tobias Andersson! Meet the organisations that work with human rights, indigenous peoples and so on in other countries and you will see that there are large groups in these communities that do not get the benefits of trade. In many cases they actually lose on it. Some industries, such as the mining industry and large food producers, are being strengthened, thereby destroying the land of indigenous peoples, as well as watercourses in different countries. There are major problems with the trade agreements that are being put in place today. I am sure that the Swedish Democrats will never vote for something that they do not see being done well enough. We see major problems with the trade agreements that are being presented today, and it is usually large companies that are involved in developing them. Trade unions, indigenous peoples' organisations and so on are less involved in the development of trade agreements. I therefore wonder: are you willing to vote for things that you do not think are good enough?
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-438	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 18 in the report on trade policy. I would like to focus on the issues relating to trade, investment promotion, export advice and exports of welfare services. With regard to state aid for export promotion, we Christian Democrats believe that coordinated state aid for internationalisation should be developed for the regions. We believe that the state needs to take overall responsibility and better coordinate the state support from authorities, companies and councils such as Business Sweden. National coordination could ensure that national project funds for labour market intervention or business promotion are not mutually exclusive. I note that the design of export centres is based on the conditions of the region in question, which means that it may be slightly different in different regions. The overall goal is that companies should get in touch with the right person in the right organisation with their question within 24 hours and that a door should be created for companies. Now the Swedish National Audit Office has just presented its review report on the regional export centres, which is part of Sweden's export strategy. It points out, among other things, that business organisations have not been given the opportunity to comment. The Swedish Agency for Growth has not created the conditions for evaluation, and the report does not meet Parliament's expectations. Here the government really needs to look further at how these export centres best support Swedish companies. To further help with the export strategy, the previous government has created Team Sweden, which consists of 19 agencies and organisations, and where Business Sweden has received funds to concentrate on the largest business. We Christian Democrats do not want this to counteract the fact that more small and medium-sized enterprises can be helped to grow and develop. The Swedish National Audit Office now points to and makes a strong call to the Government to clarify the link with other measures in the export strategy, such as Team Sweden, especially since the underlying motivation for the establishment of regional export centres was precisely the possibility for small and medium-sized companies to find the right way in the promotion system. Madam President, I would like It is also striking how the government ignores welfare services as a potential export success. Swedish actors in welfare services are internationally of high quality and are in many ways groundbreaking. New medical technology, innovations and treatment methods can contribute to positive health development globally while providing employment, tax revenues and the basis for new medical success in Swedish companies. All business starts locally, and therefore export advisory services should also be locally and regionally available. There are many actors around the country who have knowledge of and extensive experience of international trade. Their capacity must be taken into account. In particular, regional chambers of commerce are a resource for regional export advice. By opening up to procurement and advisory services, companies with export ambitions are given the opportunity to develop their export skills to local businesses while helping to establish networks among local actors in whom they trust. In order to ensure the quality of advisory services, authorisation of those operators should be introduced. The Parliament should therefore invite the Government to investigate how regional and local export advice can be procured by independent actors such as chambers of commerce and export service companies.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-448	Madam President, I would like Trade is the foundation of our prosperity. Trade binds countries and markets around the world. Higher exports benefit businesses, consumers and the economy as a whole. Similarly, imports also have an impact. Companies sell more and more of their production abroad. Measured as a proportion of total output, exports of goods and services globally have more than doubled since 1960. However, I look with some concern around the world. There is considerable uncertainty as to where the global economic cycle is heading. The growth in world trade was relatively weak in 2018, and the ongoing trade conflicts add to the uncertainty for the future. We are beginning to see trends in a trade war as China, the United States and other major powers begin to change their tone and act accordingly. Of course there are sparkles of light. There we have the EU as a liberal force, which continues to work for more free trade agreements. Canada and Japan are two important examples. Sweden should be a strong voice for free trade, primarily through global agreements but also through regional agreements. Globalisation through trade leads to better management of resources and faster deployment of technology. Free trade is the foundation of prosperity in Sweden. The increased competition from outside has spurred our companies and made them successful, without building up trade walls. It has probably not escaped anyone in this House that Sweden is a very export-dependent country. The goods and services we export represent approximately 47% of GDP. However, global trade also means that Swedish companies must remain competitive at all times. This means, above all, that we must have a policy that enables and develops trade. Every day people go from extreme poverty to security. The world has never had as small a share of the poor as it is today, and that is much thanks to globalisation. Increased trade has strengthened both our own and other countries' economy, development and prosperity. Sweden depends on the European market. It is crucial for us that European cooperation and the euro work well. The internal market is to be developed and the pace of reform is to be high. Sweden will push for the creation of a common digital single market, where digital services and cross-border e-commerce will be easier. The services sector as a whole is the part that we need to develop most. The four freedoms – the free movement of people, goods, capital and services – are the basis of the EU and the internal market. The single market is a success story. Common values of democracy and human rights act as a cohesive kitt that few countries, after all, are prepared to give up. At the same time, much can be done to make the single market contribute to more jobs, more growth and sharpened competitiveness. Sweden should be the driving force in removing barriers to trade within the EU. More recently, there has been an increase in the demand for national special solutions within the EU, which is likely to make cross-border trade more difficult. Sweden must clearly oppose this. The EU will actively combat any new protectionism, including those that are not traditional barriers such as national subsidies, localisation requirements and discrimination v in public procurement. For a functioning single market, it can not only be trade in goods that is more efficient and prioritised. The Digital Single Market must continue to develop and common rules must be developed that support innovation, sharing economy and e-commerce. Regulatory and regulatory constraints, which in many Member States prevent cross-border trade in services, should be eliminated. Madam President, I would like I quit where I started. Trade is the foundation of our prosperity. Trade binds countries and markets around the world. Sweden will continue to be a strong voice for free trade. Of course, we support our two reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 12.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-459	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by welcoming Mr Per Schöldberg to the debate. The rest of us have debated trade policy a few times before. But it's nice to have you here, Per Schöldberg. Swedish trade is a cornerstone of our economy. It creates growth, employment and increased prosperity. The export industry already employs 1.4 million Swedes. The fact that international trade is very important is something that the parties in this House agree on. What, then, distinguishes the trade policy of the Social Democrats? Madam President, I would like We have fantastic companies in our country, big and small. They stand very well in international competition in terms of quality, sustainability and innovation. We can thank the broad free education system that we have in Sweden for that. This makes the level of competence in companies generally high. We can train ourselves throughout our lives, and we can compete with knowledge and not with low wages. It is an important part of social democratic economic policy. We also have our robust security system to thank for the many who dare to try their wings – dare to change jobs, dare to start their own business and dare to educate themselves. These two pillars of Swedish welfare should not be forgotten when we talk about trade and when we talk about successful entrepreneurship. We Social Democrats are warm supporters of free trade. Free trade can, properly used, be a powerful force for prosperity. We know that trade contributes to the fight against poverty. Safeguarding the principle of free trade is therefore both a global and a Swedish interest. Free trade must also be fair trade. Madam President, I would like When we talk about trade, and above all free trade agreements negotiated by the European Union, it is always important for us Social Democrats that this should be done with fair conditions. The Swedish Government points out that the ILO's main conventions are to be ratified by the participating countries. Last time it was Japan. It is important to us with fair conditions for the workers. Another important part is sustainability. We Social Democrats believe that the countries with which we sign trade agreements – in Europe, the deep and broad trade agreements – should also live up to the commitments of the Paris Agreement. It's important. We Social Democrats are very proud of the CETA agreement. We have said that all future broad trade agreements should be CETA plus, i.e. at least as progressive as the CETA agreement – and preferably even better. Another thing that is important to us is predictability and clear worldwide rules, so that everyone knows what applies when we act. Therefore, Sweden, together with some others, is now making an effort to take the lead in reforming the WTO so that we have a functioning world trade organisation. Everybody needs it. We also contribute to the work of getting to a permanent investor's court, so that all companies that invest should know what applies and where they can turn if they consider themselves wronged. As the Left Party Member mentioned in a change of line earlier, competition costs. Some risk being knocked out. It is part of our system and one of the back pages of free trade, and it makes it incredibly important that – as in Sweden – you have robust security systems where people get the chance to change, raise their skills and get another job. There should be a good security system that takes care of people before they have got a foothold in the labour market again. We must combine free trade with strong security systems. It is a success story for Sweden. The last thing I want to mention about our view of trade agreements is that they should be concluded with equality and equality in mind. We know that today men get more of the benefits of trade than women do. It is not acceptable, and that is why the position of the Swedish Government in the negotiations in the European Union is that we must ensure that the benefits of trade come to women as much as they benefit men. While we are talking about equality and fair trade, I would also like to mention, for example, what we can do in Europe through the Everything But Arms initiative. There, for example, the EU gave Cambodia the opportunity to trade without customs duties as long as it was not about weapons. However, the European Union has withdrawn this opportunity when Cambodia is now very clearly violating human rights. It is a way of using trade in advocacy for a fairer world. Madam President, I would like Companies that are growing and developing are a prerequisite for further employment growth and for us to be able to move forward and strengthen our common well-being. That is why I am pleased to be a Member of a Parliament where most people see the benefits of free trade. I am also proud to belong to a party that, in a government position, makes a reality of the ambitions we have in terms of free, fair and sustainable trade. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to endorse the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-474	Madam President, I would like I too, of course, would like to welcome Mr Per to the debate. I am convinced that we are solving today's and the future's major challenges with international cooperation. Here, trade between countries is an absolutely central part, and I believe that more trade generally means more investment, greater competitiveness and better living standards for more people. Technology transfer between countries, which is part of this, is also the key to meeting climate change and achieving climate goals. We Greens want Sweden to be seen as an example in the world not only in terms of human rights, gender equality and peace work but – of course – also in terms of innovation, sustainable entrepreneurship and green transition. Many of these things are obvious starting points in the January agreement that we have concluded with C and L. Therefore, the work continues on these issues that the government has begun and which ultimately makes Sweden an attractive country for investors and entrepreneurs. The policy shall aim at open, free and fair trade. This means that we should continue to work towards progressive international trade agreements and continue to tear down barriers to trade, but at the same time stand up for the environment, gender equality, employees' interests and human health. I am particularly pleased that the sustainability perspective permeates the government's policy. Sweden should not only take a leading role in the implementation of Agenda 2030, but the global goals should permeate all policies. Trade should also, of course, contribute to achieving the objectives of the Agenda. A global market requires a global perspective in which we look at the whole and how our policies affect other parts of the world, both today and in the future. Focus on sustainability commits. Therefore, the climate issue needs to be given even greater weight in trade policy. In the international bodies in which Sweden operates, there should be no doubt whatsoever that Sweden's line is that agreements are concluded only when they guarantee climate-smart investments. We Greens want to go further and say that we are willing to consider trade sanctions for countries that choose, for example, to leave the Paris Agreement or otherwise neglect climate policy. This also means that the Swedish e xport needs climate protection. Today, Swedish export credits are being provided for to say the least questionable projects around the world, and let me be very clear on one point, Madam President: on behalf of the Green Party, we do not accept fossil export credits. Sweden as a country cannot enter with guarantees for exports of activities or products that endanger the climate through large emissions in other countries. Instead, we want to promote a complete ban on fossil export credits. To sum up, Madam President, Sweden will continue to promote open, free and fair trade, but the climate must have an even clearer role in politics. Multilateral agreements should be sought, and Sweden should be the leader in always setting high demands on sustainability, gender equality and human rights in trade policy. Having said that, I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-482	Madam President, I would like What the honourable Member said about investments in fossil fuels is entirely behind, but I have a question about the sustainability reports that companies are making today. While presenting sustainability reports as a positive development, Amnesty and Diakonia have shown that many of the sustainability reports from companies working in areas that are not so safe are actually more like an advertising pillar than a real tool to meet the environmental impacts that companies cause when they operate abroad. I would like to hear what the Green Party thinks about this and how it intends to change the sustainability reports. I also wonder if there has been any thought about supporting the proposal for binding agreements on human rights.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-485	Madam President, I would like I thank Lorena Delgado Varas for the question. I agree with much of what Lorena Delgado Varas brings up in her line. I think that in general there is a rather naive picture in many that trade should always be some kind of miracle cure and that prosperity as well as being created automatically just because countries trade with each other. That is true in part; it is quite clear that many people are being lifted out of poverty every day thanks to trade and exchanges between countries, as I said at the beginning of my speech. But that said, it is obvious that many – not least large companies – cheat with their accounts, make extensive use of the local population and cheat with the tax and environmental statement. I think that trade policy should be seen as a means of making demands, that is, as a way of raising the level in many countries of the world by making demands when trade agreements are concluded. That is what I was talking about when I mentioned our demand that we should simply punish the United States, for example. If the United States chooses to leave the Paris Agreement, this must have consequences for trade policy by, for example, introducing climate tariffs or whatever we should call it. In general, I agree with the picture that Lorena Delgado Varas paints. I think that trade policy should be used for that purpose.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-490	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member mentioned, among other things, that trade policy should make demands. Then my question is, how do you move on? A step has now been taken towards sustainability reports; it has not been successful. Many organisations propose binding agreements and changes in the regulatory framework that really impose requirements on companies – that is, on our companies, at least when they are abroad.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-492	Madam President, I would like I think that Lorena Delgado Varas and I have similar views on this. I am thinking, like Lorena Delgado Varas, that demands on our companies can be made as much as possible. Now, of course, this is more complicated than that. It is, of course, about the legislation that exists in other countries, and we cannot simply undermine the principles of the rule of law because we in Sweden want well and because other countries do not have strong legislation. It is harder and more complicated than that, but the ambition is of course the same. As a complement to this, I think it is important, as I said, that we continue to use the trade agreements and that, in general, we should make greater demands in these respects in connection with the negotiations that Sweden participates in with regard to various agreements.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-495	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 16 and 23. There is currently no political issue that is so topical and that arouses so many emotions as the energy issue. It's as fateful as a Greek drama. Here is everything: the development of the nation, relations with other states, alliances and different views of struggle and betrayal. The 60 parliamentary movements on the subject of energy that we are now going to discuss include everything. Energy and access to energy for a reasonable price have historically been a success factor for Sweden. This has enabled us to have a large, heavy base industry, and exports from it have been a large part of our high standard of living. This is not the case in much of the world. Energy can be expensive, and rations can be forced. This causes problems both for the individual and for companies. Madam President, I would like This is how we want to continue to have it: relatively cheap energy when we need it, where we need it. But it is no longer a matter of course. The fact that the energy we need produces as low CO2 emissions as possible is now a matter of destiny. We see that the policy is receiving indirect criticism, because it is not possible to create regulations quickly enough to facilitate the transition and thereby demonstrate that we are meeting this challenge. Madam President, I would like We see that Sweden does not change and reduce our CO2 emissions quickly enough. On the contrary, our CO2 emissions increased last year to 63.8 million tonnes – half a million tonnes more than in the previous year. The children are concerned about adult handshake, which is something we should take very seriously. Adults should take responsibility; children should not have to do this important thing. What else do we need a government for? We see a lot that is purely symbolic policy. A lot of tax money is being spent on reforms that are not producing significant results, such as the e-bike reform. In addition, waste of resources is seen as a good act. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a unique opportunity to be a leading country in the field of energy, but then all the effects of the taxes and other instruments used must be taken into account. We have a population that largely protects climate and the environment and is willing to be involved in the work to switch from fossil energy to electrification. But then electrification must actually be possible. There must be enough energy, but there must also be infrastructure in the form of the electricity lines needed – otherwise individuals cannot do so much to speed up development and transition. Our manufacturing industry is the industry with the largest CO2 emissions – a quarter of our total emissions. Here you work to reset, but of course it requires a lot of new clean electricity. Next to our manufacturing industry is the transport sector. Here you work both with efficiency improvements and with eco-driving. However, in order for us to achieve a really great effect, we need to electrify even our heavy transports. But, Madam President, if we do not have infrastructure to drive electric trucks, our trucks cannot use electricity instead of diesel. If there is no public transport in the country, you cannot travel collectively. Instead, we must find smart energy for transport outside our big cities and not raise taxes on fuel for ordinary people who have no other purpose in driving than getting to work or bringing children from football training. We cannot blame large parts of the Swedish people when we have not created alternatives. Moral politics in relation to the environment are as boring and limited as any other moral policy. Madam President, I would like What do we need to do? We need to be very careful about how we use the subsidies and tax instruments available. Subsidies can be a good instrument for triggering development, but they can be directly counterproductive if they remain when they are no longer needed. To increase taxes on certain power sources in order to force the premature closure of, for example, a combined heat and power plant, as in Värtahamnen, has consequences. We see that the Stockholm area can now have an acute electricity supply shortage. It may seem good to tax existing fossil-powered power plants hard to get a change started, but it is actually the opposite: they are forced to close prematurely without having funding for the new investments needed in better technology. Madam President, I would like We need to do more research in the field of energy, including nuclear energy. It is through research and development that we have managed to get as far as we have in Sweden. We need research in all areas, and we need to be clear that our energy supply is not based on just one leg. We need many different types of energy, and we need to use them where they fit best. We need more demonstration facilities to showcase new technologies and to disseminate knowledge. We need to look at how we can make better use of the energy we have created through efficiency improvements. It can be anything from smart grids to better use waste heat. We need to make better use of all raw materials that are also energy, such as forest, soil and sea raw materials, and use them for the production of biofuels. We need nuclear power. Only by using the strength of it can we create a fossil-free society – a society where there is access to the energy we need when we need it and where we use energy in a resource efficient way in the future.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-516	Madam President, I would like We are today debating energy issues and proposals from the general period of exercise. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 15 and 16 in the report. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come we are content only to ask for their approval. As recently as today, Svenska Dagbladet reports that a larger bakery chooses to put its plans for expansion in Malmö on ice – this as a result of the electricity supplier not being able to guarantee the extra electricity supply required for the operation. The same article also shows that a major ventilation company has chosen to establish itself in Sweden for the same reason. The comments that were given by the respective management were: Power shortage is something you hear about in developing countries. The second comment was that we do not dare to expand production in a country that cannot guarantee the supply of electricity. Sweden is becoming too risky. ..................................................... This is anything but a vague present-day description of what it actually looks like in parts of our country. But there is still nothing to discourage the government, the Center Party and the Liberals, who have instead landed in raising the tax on cogeneration in shock. This will result in a further strengthening of the power shortages in the local networks, and as local production disappears, transmission capacity will be further reduced. The next two years will also close to one tenth of the country's electricity supply when Ringhals 1 and 2 are closed, which the government seems to see no problems with at all. Nothing in the Energy Agreement entered into between five of Parliament's parties moves towards us producing electricity when we need it and want to use it. This is something that obviously seems to go up for some of the parties that have entered into the energy agreement. Issues related to security of supply and capacity will become much more central in the near future in the energy policy debate. This is something that we have been talking about for a long time and have been rather alone in pursuing proposals linked to. Therefore, it was gratifying when the Riksdag recently voted in favour of the Swedish Democrats' proposal that a target for security of supply should be set, which should take into account society's needs and the importance of electricity supply for the business community. Madam President, I would like It is not surprising that nuclear power has become more topical in the energy policy debate again, as more and more people have begun to realise that the fossil-free alternatives for planned power generation are very few. Unfortunately, resistance to nuclear power is still partly based on feelings rather than on facts. When a television series based on the Chernobyl accident recently launched, at least individual ministers were intimidated, and nuclear ghosts have probably been put in more than one of the Members of this House. Unfortunately, some have taken on board the idea that radiation and radioactivity would be some form of non-natural phenomenon that is troubling. Instead, it is the opposite. Radioactivity has existed since the beginning of time. For example, we are human beings radioactive through the potassium present in our saliva and the carbon 14 of which we are partly composed, which also results in a radioactive release into this House when we are in here together. If someone even took the opportunity to take a banana out in the chamber foyer, this fruit is also quite radioactive compared to other fruits, as it is rich in potassium. On the other hand, we should be rational in relation to the major consequences that could result from a complete nuclear accident. It is a question of getting down to a reasonable level of risk. There is therefore an internationally accepted scale for categorising nuclear accidents, the INES scale, which is seven-degree. Unfortunately, there are two accidents that have reached the highest figure on the scale, a seven, namely in Fukushima and Chernobyl. The Chernobyl accident caused some thirty direct deaths in connection with the accident. More people have died later, some time after the turn of the millennium, which has been linked to the accident. This means that there are 50 to 60 deaths that can be linked directly to the accident. In addition, estimates from the WHO and the UN have been made of how many more cases of cancer the accident has led to. It has looked at the collective dose that a larger group of people have been exposed to and found to have caused a few more thousand cancer deaths. But they cannot be specifically linked to the nuclear accident itself. At Fukushima, only one death has been related to the nuclear accident itself, and the WHO also estimates that no apparent increase in cancer deaths is to be expected as a result of the accident. Even the so-called Harrisburg accident at Three Mile Island is one of the more famous nuclear accidents. But it is not a seven, but a five on the INES scale, causing no death or cancer at all. If one were now concerned about how technology affects people and how harmful it can be, one had to put it in relation to something else to know the degree of danger, for at the same time hundreds of thousands of people die as a result of fossil power plants decomposing coal and oil annually with the air pollution that it causes. In the case of hydroelectric power, for example, a hydroelectric dam broke down in Brumadinho, Brazil at the beginning of this year – resulting in 237 deaths, i.e. more than the direct deaths of Three Mile Island, Chernobyl and Fukushima combined. From the 20th century until today, nearly 200 000 people have lost their lives in accidents related to hydroelectric dams that have broken. The number of deaths per unit produced is also higher for wind and solar power. However, it is clear that all fossil-free alternatives are beneficial from this point of view, if you have a humanistic input, in addition to the fact that there are very small greenhouse gas emissions. If you are appalled by the few deaths associated with these accidents, it is strange if you do not have any problems with cycling, for example, where the risk of being affected is a thousandfold higher at the individual level. All industrial and human presence means some kind of influence on our environment. Nevertheless, it is clear that nuclear power can reach an acceptable level of risk. Existing technology has served us well. For a long time Sweden was a prominent nuclear power nation, along with the USA and Russia, when we developed technology in Sweden. It was something that lasted until the thought ban on new nuclear power came, which has held back the development in Sweden. In practice, both the Alliance at its time in power and red governments of various nuances have effectively withheld efforts on nuclear research. That is why, Madam President, it is particularly interesting and gratifying that the Swedish Democrats, together with the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals in this report, have agreed that nuclear power should have a clearly stated space in energy research. There is a reservation here that has the potential to win the Parliament's voice when we vote on it. Now is the time to look forward, to be offensive again and to participate in the work on fourth generation nuclear power in order to better exploit the energy content of the uranium that we have already dug up. If you want a society with low greenhouse gas emissions and at the same time strengthen Sweden's competitiveness, you do not close the door to any of the fossil-free alternatives that exist. On the contrary, more and more modern nuclear power is needed.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-537	Madam President, I would like Imagine how much is happening in the energy world! When we had this debate a year ago, there was no energy agreement. It writes political history in Sweden. ..................................................... That is how I started the debate a few years ago. At that time, five parties had just reached agreement on long-term and stable rules of play. The energy industry made the wave. The level of conflict had finally been reduced. At last, 40 years of discussion had come to an end. The solutions began to come in place. Today, reality is different. The energy industry is still making the wave of the energy agreement as a whole. The solutions have also fallen into place. On the other hand, there are parties who are prepared to risk the long-term and stability for party political reasons, obviously in the absence of other climate policies. The truth is that progress has been rapid only in the years since we concluded the Energy Agreement. It has gone so fast that history is written around the world every day. The most optimistic scenarios a few years ago have not only come true – they have been radically surpassed! Today, we are expanding new solar energy and concu rrating old coal power. Today, we are building new wind power production in Sweden on market terms. It has basically never been built new electricity production in Sweden on market terms before. Hydropower was expanded with government loans. Nuclear power was expanded with large subsidies. In the past we have had an electricity certification system that we are now decommissioning. The fact that we are now reaching a point where we can expand things on market conditions is amazing! It creates great opportunities. When electricity and energy can stop being something we need to do in the future for climate policy reasons, we are opening up completely new conditions. At the same time, it is obvious that the way there – because we are not there yet – needs to be as smooth as possible. Then we need to use the systems we have built and the reality that people live in as well as we can. Not all people will get up in the middle of the night and start the washing machine or dishwasher. Those systems need to be managed automatically. The important thing is not that you have clean dishes at the time. 23 in the evening without it being clean when you have breakfast in the morning. Such things can be programmed and managed remotely, and you can also earn a pick at the cost. In addition, we get better systems that work smoother. User flexibility is called that. These things solve the market if we let the market manage them, if we give the market clear rules of play and simplify the rules we have to find new business models. In the scenarios developed by the Swedish Energy Agency, we see that if we allow the market to steer, we can handle many of the challenges we face. Then we won't have this power shortage. Then you find solutions to the problems. If we clear the regulations and enable the new business models, we solve the problems we now face. The discussion on individual power strokes left the Center Party behind ten years ago, in connection with the Alliance's energy agreement. It is a pity that some other parties' tactical considerations will obscure the visibility of the real problems we have, such as the capacity problems and bottlenecks in the network in Malmö that we heard about from the speaker's seat earlier. These are real problems that we need to address. There is an incredible amount in the regulations to deal with here. We in politics should not point out which technology is best. It'll do the market a lot better than we do. It also shows the scenarios that have been drawn up. Instead, let us focus on the problems – the problems that exist, what the solutions are and what solutions are actually best suited to implement. Of course we can have any solution, but these can be expensive and bad solutions. We should have a problem formulation that we can handle and that is not adapted to fit into a political agenda. We have a challenge in local power shortages. In Malmö it is very clear. In Stockholm we have seen it quite a short time. Uppsala has been there, as have Västerås and other cities. There are problems with network bottlenecks. You can actually produce as much as you want. It may be new nuclear power plants in Sweden or wind farms in the north, but it does not solve the problem because electricity does not enter the cities – unless you put the wind farm or the nuclear power plant in central parts of the cities I have just mentioned. However, I have not heard anyone propose this. About the problems that exist, the industry itself says: We are best placed to solve this, if you just give us the conditions. It is about shorter licensing processes, about user flexibility, about local electricity generation and about local markets. It's not so exciting that it's on whale posters, but that's what makes a difference in reality. Reasonably, it is precisely what the industry itself points out that are also the solutions. Therefore, the Center Party has put forward proposals to help in this: clear the regulatory framework, introduce a flexible electricity tax and ensure that permit processes proceed faster with green permit tracks that make it faster and easier for those who want to make an environmental improvement. It also strengthens Swedish competitiveness and avoids large holes in people's wallets. We also see a development in the longer term where we can have certain challenges around system services and national impact balance. Of course, such problems should be taken seriously. There are also solutions here. Different system services can be procured. Of course, we will not pay for what we already have, but a shortage can be procured. There are many different types of solutions. We are also seeing around the world how, on a market-based basis, the shortcomings that exist pay for things instead of letting politics find out how to solve it. It's not a big change. In the Nordic electricity market, for example, we can pay for power and other things that are relevant. This can be done by Swedish power grids if we only give them the assignment. In this way, it may also be wise to take on board what we said in the Energy Agreement: we need to speed up network deployment. It needs to go faster. We need to link not only within Sweden but also between other European countries and between us and the continent. Here I welcome the discussion that other parties raised in the European election movement that more countries should have higher interconnection. This enables us to share the energy that flows freely in a completely different way. Finally, Madam President, we have had a fantastic development in Sweden. Perhaps for the first time ever, we are now building on market conditions. That's what we're going to say. Building on market conditions also means actually building as smartly as possible. It will be the cheapest possible and most effective possible. This is what strengthens Swedish competitiveness. That's what the energy industry wants. That is what keeps electricity prices so low that we get a competitive Swedish industry. It does not frustrate the billion-dollar holes in the state budget or in the household treasury that subsidies would entail. We in the Center Party not only protect the green transition; we protect Swedish industry, we protect Swedish competitiveness and we protect Swedish households. More parties should do the same. With that, Madam President, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 9.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-554	Madam President, I would like Rickard Nordin here sings praises to the energy agreement, and so do we from moderate hll. It is hugely important and has made the market trust that nothing changes over choices but that it is something that lasts long-term. However, it must be updated. It is not that the major challenges a few years ago are the challenges we face today. We are now seeing a basic industry that is extremely good at changing. We see that both mines and the transport sector are moving completely to electrification. Then biogas, wind power and renewables are not enough in the short term. Long-term – absolutely! There will be new methods of beaming in the sun, and we will also be able to store energy in a different way in the future. But we're not there! Then it is very strange that it is the children who should run this debate in our squares and who should worry that it is not going fast enough. CO2 production in Sweden actually increased last year. I do not understand what Rickard Nordin sees, Madam President. This cannot, of course, be solved by the renewable methods we have today. 40% of our energy production is now from hydroelectric power. 40% comes from nuclear power. If we are to use more energy, if we are to increase from 160 000 terawatt hours to 190 000 terawatt hours, which is thought to be needed if we change society, the solutions of the Center Party are not enough. How does the Center Party view these challenges, which actually exist?
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-557	Madam President, I would like Now I think we should keep the concepts apart a little. First of all, there were probably three zeros too much in terms of the number of terawatt hours. Secondly, we have about 97%, somewhere there in the hooks, fossil-free electricity. It is not in the electricity sector that CO2 emissions are increasing. They have increased slightly in the heat sector, but there the Moderates still want to subsidise coal power, so I think we can have another discussion about that. This is about the transport sector, the mining industry and a number of other things. If we look at how the expansion of Swedish electricity generation has been in recent years, we see that wind power has been expanded with half a nuclear reactor a year. This is not a problem, and it is being built today on market conditions. So I think the electricity supply is the least we need to worry about. We can definitely have a debate about the fact that we can, for example, change faster – there the Center Party has proposals that go much further than what the Moderates do when it comes to a green car bonus of up to $100,000 for the best environmental cars. But that is not what we are talking about in this debate. In this debate we are dealing with electricity issues, although this is called energy in the report. In Sweden we have unique conditions. Just a few years ago, KVA said, I think it was, that the system would never last 1 terawatt hour of wind power. We passed that. Then they said, "But 10 terawatt hours-- there's no way!" Today we have 19 terawatt hours. This isn't a problem. We have hydropower that can balance. We also have bioenergy that can balance. We have great conditions, and not all countries have that – you should be honest and say that. But energy policy in terms of electricity is Swedish, and it is up to us to decide for ourselves. We of some, perhaps also Norway and a few others, have great opportunities to do this. We already have an electricity system that is disconnected from the climate issue, so this is not a matter for this debate. On other issues, there is absolutely much that we can do, and there have been many proposals made by the Center Party.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-561	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry about the extra zeros that came with-- it wasn't my intention. It is strange if you think that intermittent energy can replace basic energy that is actually there all the time. Our Swedish heavy base industry cannot wait for it to blow. We still do not have a storage function for this. We have hydropower and we have nuclear power that allows us to keep the basic energy at an even level all the time. Then, as Rickard Nordin actually mentioned himself, we have major problems locally. Then my question is: should we allow industries to have to close down and that we need to stop manufacturing in certain places because we cannot generate energy because we are pushing this too quickly and in absurdly and therefore do not ensure that the systems last? If you look at the world, Madam President, it is just as Rickard Nordin says that Sweden actually has the purest energy. It would be a shame if we blew the opportunity for jobs and development in Sweden because we are imbecile and do not have energy for our industries here, but for those who are abroad. Rickard Nordin wants us to connect with the rest of Europe, and that would be great for Germany, for example, where the Greens have come forward very hard to phase out nuclear power and fossil gas is now being used instead of nuclear power, which is much worse for the climate. If we are to export to such countries and they have access to our cheap energy, we have a challenge and a match to go.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-565	Madam President, I would like I note that there are many fine words and a loud tone from the Moderates, but I have not heard a single solution mentioned. Perhaps there has been some talk about nuclear power, but it does not solve the problem in Malmö – if you are not to build new nuclear power inside the city core. I have not heard any proposal on that, but that is the only conclusion I can draw as to what the Moderates want in that case. Lotta Olsson talks about storage. Maybe she's heard about hydroelectric storage. These are the largest energy stocks we have in Sweden. They can store a great deal, and they can also drive less when there is a lot of wind, the sun is there a lot or there are other more intermittent energy sources to use. In addition, you miss the points that can be made inside Malmö, Stockholm, Uppsala, Västerås and the other cities in addition to drawing more networks. It is about energy efficiency – there is enormous potential for energy efficiency. It is about user flexibility, which means that you do not have to use everything at the same time. It is also about more local production. There is a great potential in biopower, which is another planned force. Not everything needs to be run at the same time. I am very happy to hear suggestions from the Moderates on how to solve these problems, but all I have heard so far is something mumbling about nuclear power, and that does not solve the problems. I would very much like to discuss what solutions we have. I have mentioned a number of them, but I did not hear a single solution from Lotta Olsson and the Moderates. I think that is the big problem, and that is what those in Malmö should be worried about – not that we do not see the problems, because we do, but that there are no solutions from Sweden's second largest party. You should be worried about that. And then you should listen to the Center Party, which has thoughts and ideas, wants to shorten the state processes and ensure that you get electricity. That's what's important. These are the capacity problems, bottlenecks in the network, which are at stake. We can either produce more within the network, have more networks or solve it internally with efficiency improvements. These are the solutions available, not more nuclear power.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-569	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that a secure and secure energy supply is an important engine in Sweden and also crucial to our well-being. Swedish companies, citizens and consumers should be able to rely on energy supply and especially electricity. There should be long-term rules of play and stable conditions in the energy market, which is of great importance for Swedish jobs and Swedish competitiveness. The importance of secure and environmentally friendly energy supply at competitive prices is something everyone agrees on. But the parties have different views on how this is to be done. We Christian Democrats already last autumn said that Sweden's electricity needs will increase, and that significantly, if we are to continue to develop society, reduce oil dependence and at the same time meet the climate targets. Planning for increased use of electricity should be based on an electricity demand of at least 200 terawatt hours in 2045, which is 60 terawatt hours more than today if all commitments are to be met. All non-fossil energies are needed here. During the spring Sweco has first been commissioned by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and since the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences, IVA, and the Energy companies all pointed to an increased electricity demand of 40-50 terawatt hours to be able to phase out fossil fuels with electrification. Madam President, I would like With the energy agreement as a starting point, we now need to move forward and take joint responsibility for the energy supply and that it should continue to be a hygiene factor as it has been in Sweden for so long. A few weeks ago, the Swedish Parliament voted through the Christian Democrats' proposal that we should develop a security of supply target that takes into account society's electricity needs and is based on the importance of electricity supply for Sweden's competitiveness as an industry nation. Electricity supply in Sweden has for a long time been characterised by high power quality and good operational security, but we see an increased power challenge when, among other things, renewable electricity generation is connected to the electricity grids while parts of the nuclear power are shut down. The consequences of this will be the disappearance of a significant proportion of stable electricity production without sufficient measures being taken to ensure security of supply. Madam President, I would like In order for this to become a reality for Sweden's energy supply, we, in our view Christian Democrats, need to focus on some starting points that need to be included and dealt with. We need to find stable solutions to overcome climate threats and to achieve net zero emissions, not only in Sweden but also in our surrounding world, and therefore measures need to be taken. I am pleased that we can have constructive talks within the framework of the Energy Agreement in order to ensure a stable and secure supply of electricity. Firstly, we must ensure that coal power and fossil fuels will be eliminated. Secondly, Sweden needs 200 terawa t hours of electricity production in line with several studies I mentioned earlier. These also show that nuclear power is needed to meet climate targets and electricity supply. Thirdly, we see the increase in wind power from 19 terawa t hours today to 30 - 35 terawatt hours in 2022. It provides the opportunity to increase electricity exports to 40 terawatt hours per year, which in turn can accelerate the shutdown of fossil electricity in the outside world. Five parties took in hand with the long-term energy policy for Sweden in June three years ago. The agreement was the result of sometimes lengthy and difficult negotiations and is now a whole covering both renewable subsidies and the conditions for long-term operation of nuclear power, even after 2040. We Christian Democrats are in favour of an energy policy that delivers on all parts of this agreement. We welcome the continued expansion of wind and solar power while safeguarding the valuable resource that nuclear energy represents for climate and competitiveness. However, I have a question that comes up quite often. It concerns the interpretation of this agreement by the authorities. It does not always seem to be in line with what is in the agreement. Last May, the Swedish Energy Agency presented five future scenarios for Sweden's electricity supply. All scenarios lacked nuclear power. The report shows an increase in electricity production by only 20 terawatt hours, and points to a strong dependence on electricity imports. The report contains quite a few if and but and shows that in the worst case, companies will choose to move production to countries that have more credible plans. This distortion of the meaning of the agreement is unfortunate and has led to criticism. We can also look at all the companies that are holding up a finger of warning. Trying to make the 100 % renewable electricity generation wording, which is therefore merely an expression of will among others, the only objective, thereby ignoring the role of nuclear power, is detrimental to the legitimacy of the agreement. The agreement is to deliver a robust electricity system with a high security of supply, a low environmental impact and electricity at competitive prices. It shall also ensure that Sweden has no net greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere by 2045 at the latest. Then we shall achieve negative emissions. Since the concrete reform content of the Energy Agreement is now running out, we have presented nine constructive points together with the Moderates to secure tomorrow's energy supply. Among other things, we want to investigate possible life-time extensions of existing nuclear power, stimulate research also in the nuclear field, develop a roadmap for fourth generation nuclear power and conduct an impact study with the aim of strengthening the Swedish electricity network. The climate, as many put it, is a matter of destiny for mankind. Here the IPCC has spoken clearly: it is a matter of great urgency, and all means are needed. In the vast majority of scenarios where we are going to reach the 1.5-degree target, renewables and nuclear power are greatly expanding. We've taken that to heart. Madam President, I would like The focus should be on how we in the best and most effective way reduce society's climate impact. A fossil-free society will require significantly more electricity and power. It is thanks to the combination of nuclear, hydro, bio and wind power that Sweden is the country within the EU that has the lowest climate emissions in its electricity production. The Christian Democrats defend the goal that Sweden will have a sustainable and resource-efficient energy supply and no net greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere by 2050. We therefore need to step up work on climate and energy issues at both national and international level in order to achieve these climate objectives. Energy policy will enable future generations to live and operate in a sustainable society. We want to see a diversity of renewable energy in industry, energy efficiency improvements and more investment in long-term and sustainable energy sources. We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am in favour of Amendments Nos 1 and 16 in the report.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-589	Madam President, I would like I'm a little curious, Camilla Brodin. Who's gonna pay? Who's gonna pay for your politics? Who's gonna pay for Ringhals 1 and 2 to move on? Vattenfall itself says that it is technical and economic madness. It's completely unreasonable to do that. This isn't a secret plot. Ringneck 2 today has cracks in its bottom plate, which means that you run on exceptions. One has had to make an exception to the security rules, which means that one can drive – if one shuts down at the end of the year. In addition, Ringhals 1 does not live up to the requirements of Fukushima. These are old things that were built in the '70s. It's hard to find spare parts. It is also a reason why they would otherwise have had to close in just a few years. It is totally unreasonable to take those investments, at least on a market-based basis. So the question is, are we going to bend the security rules or who's going to pay? Is it households? Is it the taxpayer? Or is it Swedish industry that should pay with multiple electricity prices? Who's taking the check for your politics, Camilla Brodin?
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-593	Madam President, I would like The question is who should take the bill for our policy. I'd really like to put it back to you, Rickard Nordin. Who's taking the check for your politics? Nevertheless, investments have been made in Ringhals 1 and 2 and in Swedish nuclear power. But you don't want to invest in extending these for life and you haven't done the thorough work. The other day we were able to read about Qvist's report on the technical investigation carried out by Ringhals 1 and 2. There are unimagined possibilities here. I do not understand why we do not want to investigate this in order to secure the electricity generation that Ringhals 1 and 2 represent. It also closes down without having a complete alternative in place. I may find it irresponsible not to want to investigate it. Unfortunately, the committee initiative that we presented together with the Moderates, Liberals and the Swedish Democrats on setting up a rapid investigation has been voted down today. We urgently want to set up a rapid investigation to turn and reverse the technical and economic conditions and the outcome and impact of early closure of greenhouse gases. So I would like to put the question back.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-597	Madam President, I would like This isn't about what I want. It's about what the market wants. The market says it's financial and technical madness. But the Christian Democrats want to engage in some sort of political planning economy and say that these power plants should be continued. I see the Left Party Members are laughing. It usually comes from the Left Party and not from bourgeois parties. Let me explain a little. Yes, there are ready options. Wind power is now being built, on market terms, equivalent to half a nuclear reactor a year. How can it be said that there are no alternatives? We have backup in the form of hydropower and biopower. And six reactors will run for at least 20 more years, as the industry itself says. There are alternatives. We also see that some of our neighbours will have a reduced import demand quite soon. I'm a little curious about how the Christian Democrats think. Tell them that the rapid investigation shows that we should do it in a different way politically – Vattenfall still thinks it's crazy – are you going to force Vattenfall to do this? It is a limited liability company that operates on market terms. It is doubtful whether it is even possible under the Companies Act to force someone to make unprofitable investments. How do the Christian Democrats intend to resolve this in view of the EU's state aid rules? One must not give support to individual companies. How will the Christian Democrats resolve this, even if you go against Vattenfall? How do you expect someone to pay for this? Someone's got to pay the bill. It is not profitable on market terms. Who's going to subsidise this nuclear power? That's the bottom line. What I want is completely irrelevant. The market is closing this because it's not profitable. How can the Christian Democrats, a bourgeois party, go against the best interests of the market and the conditions of the market? It will cost taxpayers billions, and it says Camilla Brodin defending. I'd love to hear who's actually paying.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-604	Madam President, I would like Rickard Nordin asks who's going to pay. If we look at the subsidies we are giving to solar power, wind power and so on, we can see that we have spent an enormous number of billions in that system too. The decision to close Ringhals 1 and 2 was made before the effect tax was removed. We are no longer giving subsidies to nuclear power. Someone has to make money. The last year Ringhals 1, 2, 3 and 4 must have gone with about 6 billion plus. Making these investments in an already existing nuclear power plant must be more profitable than continuing to subsidise other types of expansion. If we are to have a market-based energy supply, Rickard Nordin cannot stand here and say that it is on a market-based basis, because it is not today. As long as we do not have that option, we cannot continue to close our eyes to the fact that security of supply is important for Swedish companies and for Swedish households. That is why the Christian Democrats stand up for this policy.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-606	Madam President, I would like Swedish energy policy needs a new direction. The various parties in this House have again and again received reports of lack of effectiveness and lack of business start-ups. We get reports that we are unable to maintain an effect balance at the coldest days of the year. The whole base industry is concerned, and rightly so, when stable and climate-smart nuclear power is scrapped. As if that were not enough, I actually believe that all the representatives of this House are keen to electrify industry, households and the transport sector and ensure that Sweden takes the lead in climate action that makes us strong for the future. This requires more energy. Energy policy is a key factor in meeting the climate challenges we see. A new direction is needed for Swedish energy policy. It is no secret that the Liberals are not behind the energy agreement. We warned early on that it did not choose to carry out a serious impact assessment of the objectives of the agreement. We are therefore pleased with the announcement to the government to develop a delivery security target, for which we in the Liberals have been working for so long and for which the industry has been asking for so long. We also see that the climate benefit does not reflect the cost of the energy agreement. Having said that, the Liberals are an advocate of renewable energy, but then combined with stable and climate-smart production as hydropower and, above all, nuclear power. It is the combination that makes Sweden strong and enables us to take the lead in the climate work that the world demands. Madam President, I would like Let me highlight a few parts! There is a need for fewer subsidies and more markets. In my opinion, the flora of subsidies, subsidies and tax rules needs to be reviewed, so that the conditions for fossil-free power laws are equal. I welcome all forms of emission-free electricity production but believe that it should be built where it is needed and on a market-based basis. I therefore advocate the application of the principle of more market and less subsidies. In my opinion, giving extensive subsidies to new wind and solar power, pushing down electricity prices and thus forcing functioning fossil-free electricity production to close prematurely leads to higher system costs and impairs Sweden's competitiveness towards the outside world. It is important to have more equal conditions for CO2-free power strokes, and I am critical of the electricity certification system as well as of the other forms of subsidies for certain electricity generation that come with the energy agreement. I believe that European dependence on Russian gas leads both to major climate emissions and to a deterioration in security in the European Union. From a Swedish perspective, we can conclude that lack of security of supply risks leading to significant damage for both industry and households and that it will cost money. The power reserve may need to be used more and more often, which means, among other things, that the power plant in Karlshamn needs to be started up, something that is anything but climate smart. In addition, we will need to import more electricity, which often comes from German coal or Russian gas. As a liberal, I therefore believe that Sweden should work to ensure that Sweden is at the heart of European cooperation and is fully where the key decisions are made. It is therefore important for the EU's Energy Union to develop further and focus on climate-neutral energies such as renewables and nuclear power, as energy production is a crucial factor in climate change. Nuclear power is the basis of Swedish electricity production and is important not only for industry – which depends on stable electricity production every day of the year, every hour of the year and every second of the year – but also for the environment. To slow down development is perhaps the most important development of our time. We also know that Swedish nuclear power is reducing emissions in our neighbouring countries. Nuclear power is secure and climate smart, and we therefore believe that nuclear power is needed for the sake of climate change, as the UN Panel on Climate Change has also stated. We are very concerned about Germany, which, despite huge and costly investments in renewable energy, has become increasingly dependent on coal and gas once nuclear power has been shut down. It's anything but climate smart. We must maintain nuclear power and also welcome its development. Sweden must also invest more in research and development on nuclear energy in the longer term. It is also important that Sweden can maintain and enhance research expertise in the field in order to be able to manage existing reactors and have the opportunity to build new ones but also to dismantle older reactors in a safe and responsible way. We can also note that if we shut down Swedish nuclear power, we will need to import more electricity and become more dependent on fossil energy. Within a number of years, around 30 percent of Swedish nuclear power capacity will disappear. If we are to succeed in solving the climate challenges, we need to electrify society even more, and if Sweden is to continue to be a strong industrial nation with expansions and start-ups, we simply need more energy. Swedish society and, above all, Swedish industry need long-term sustainability and security of supply. If you are concerned about Swedish industry and have higher ambitions than to hold an energy agreement just for the sake of it, you have to take the nuclear issue seriously. The Liberals have presented a committee initiative to the Committee on Economic Affairs in two rounds. In the first round, the proposal was rejected, but in the second round we presented a committee initiative on Ringhals 1 and 2 together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. It was also supported by the Swedish Democrats. It is gratifying that they finally came to the same conclusion as us. Now we need to set up a rapid investigation to see what opportunities there are for further operation of Ringhals 1 and 2, because much has happened since the decision on decommissioning was taken. Among other things, the price of electricity has doubled and taxes have changed. Not least, we also have climate action that we really need to tackle. I can understand that a few years ago we looked at this with different eyes, but at present we should see the problem with new and fresh eyes and see the possibilities of an investigation. On the other hand, it is regrettable that the Social Democrats do not support this initiative. Only a few weeks ago, the Swedish base industry in Today's industry wrote that the risk of power shortage is real and that it takes effort to ensure Sweden's electricity generation, among other things by protecting nuclear power, especially Ringhals 1 and 2. Madam President, I would like All reports, warning signals and concerns from Swedish industry should be a wake-up call. Swedish energy policy therefore needs a new direction. It's time for an energy deal 2.0. We must ensure that the level of ambition is increased and based on the needs of society and the importance of electricity supply for our competitiveness as an industrial nation. In addition, these issues are a key factor in coping with the climate challenges that we see. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 13 and 16.
i-Jj4bcFDE496SCr5BsPtf4a	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report NU14. The report deals with 61 requests from the general exercise period and 24 reservations. First of all, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject all motions. Madam President, I would like 150 years ago Sweden started electrifying. Kerosene lamps were replaced with light bulbs. Wood stoves were replaced with electric stoves. In fact, Sweden was the first country in the world where virtually all households were electrified. Now we are on the threshold, on the border, of the next generation electrification. We're changing the transport sector. We're already on our way. Faster than most people think, the passenger car fleet will probably be powered by electricity. We will see the same developments in those parts of the industry that have not yet been electrified. As an example, we can take the Swedish steel production, from which I myself come. This is now one of our most important sources of emissions. SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall have launched a project to find solutions with hydrogen-based iron production, which can reduce Sweden's carbon dioxide emissions by 10 percent. We see the cement industry, which has developed a vision to manage cement production without carbon dioxide emissions by 2030. This represents 5 per cent of Sweden's total emissions. This will lead to competitive advantages driven by both electrification and digitalisation. It reduces emissions, and the climate issue is the fundamental driving force. If we are to do this, we need to ensure that electricity is available and that it is available in the places where it is needed. The question is: Is there enough electricity? The short answer is yes. But, of course, it is more complicated than that. Currently 18 482 megawatts are produced, according to Swedish power grid. The total consumption is 13 566 megawatts. This means that Sweden exports 4 917 megawatts. We export between 15 and 20 terawatts a year. So we do not have a shortage of electricity in Sweden, despite what is being debated here. We export electricity 51 out of 52 weeks a year. When we import electricity, it is mainly Norwegian hydroelectric power. We connect our electrical system with that of other countries so that we can have an efficient and user-friendly system. All the countries around Europe are doing the same thing as we are doing, which is changing. Thanks to the fact that we have arrived here in Parliament with an energy agreement, we have seen huge investments in wind energy in Sweden. It is now a total of SEK 72 billion until 2022. It has gone so well for Swedish wind power on land that it now bears itself. New wind power is produced in Sweden at a cost of 30 - 35 øre per kilowatt. Anyone who wants to compare with, for example, newly produced nuclear power can look at the UK. There the state guarantees 93 øre per kilowatt for 35 years. If we can now produce wind power for less than half the price, why should we choose to subsidise new nuclear power that is twice as expensive? How many electricity consumers in Sweden are prepared to double their electricity price just to get new nuclear power? I don't think that's a lot. With a cost curve for wind power falling downwards, the cost curve for nuclear power is the opposite. If we see internationally, maybe the sun curve is the most interesting. It falls even steeper than the wind farm curve. Madam President, I would like What do we need to do? We need to stick to the objectives on which we agree. Electricity production should be 100 per cent renewable by 2040. By 2045, Sweden will have no net emissions. But then we need a competitive district heating and cogeneration sector to meet the regional and local capacity challenges. We need good opportunities to use forest and agricultural raw materials to produce different biofuels. We need to seize the opportunities of biogas. I'm looking forward to the results of what the Biogas investigation is working on right now. They can serve as a basis for strategic considerations on how biogas can play a more important role in the future. We need modern hydropower where the expansion takes place mainly through power increases in existing works. At the same time, a national holistic approach is needed on measures to improve the aquatic environment and national availability of electricity from hydropower. We need to increase transmission capacity between the south and the north. We must make it easier to build electricity networks in Sweden. Lead times of 10 – 15 years do not last. We need to produce more electricity closer to consumers. Investing in renewable energy for own use with solar cells and heat, for example, must be made easier and more profitable. We need to increase the flexibility and storage of the grid so that the grids become smarter and can help us cut the peaks in consumption. We need to focus on research and development of renewable energy production. It is the Swedish Energy Agency that makes the priorities needed in the distribution of energy research. At the same time, it may be important to recall that there are no obstacles to the use of funds from other sources of funding for research and development of nuclear energy, for example. Madam President, I would like When Sweden was electrified 150 years ago, society was characterized by faith in the future. Let's do it again. We have the best conditions in the world to do this. We have a broad political consensus, a large supply of renewable energy and an energy industry at the forefront. But we're gonna have to help each other. I am convinced that if a small country is to meet major challenges, we need to work together.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-640	Madam President, I would like Sweden is facing a situation where we are moving towards power shortages and where we have a lack of transmission capacity. It is something that is a problem across the country but perhaps more a noted phenomenon in the local electricity grids of our metropolitan regions. The government is now presenting a proposal for shock-raised taxes on cogeneration. It looks short-sighted to make the situation even worse. It prevents business start-ups and the construction of new residential areas. You may not be able to expand subways and so on. The Ygeman Government visited the committee, and he discussed this in an interpellation debate in the House. He pointed out that if one were to see a problem with the consequential effects of closures, it should be possible to take into account other aspects than purely business-related aspects. You might have to look at economics. One might still decide in the publicly owned companies of the municipalities to pursue the business, but not on an equal market basis. Today, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, in part, the Social Democrats voted against a committee initiative to investigate the conditions for moving Ringhals 1 and 2 further. The same logic could be applied there. There may be socio-economic incentives for the limited company Sweden to operate the facilities further that may differ from the business administration. Now the Social Democrats chose to vote against it. My question and reasoning concern why the Social Democrats are not interested in getting more facts on the table and knowing how things are going, but even before they turn it down.
i-RU81yYfcd68Y2LpFwFTxR3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for the question! In some way, it is strange that this nuclear debate has flared up. For me, it can sometimes be a little difficult to relate to it. I was there at the time when you went to school and even then there were nuclear discussions. That was yes, no and something in between. They had different marks on them, and so on. I thought we were past the discussion about nuclear power through the energy agreement. Now, of course, the representative of the Swedish Democrats should not feel responsible for the energy agreement. But we have not made a political decision to close any nuclear power plant at all since the energy agreement, as I know. In the debate, it sounds like with political decisions we are going to close nuclear power plants in two years, five years, ten years or 20 years. There's no such thing. We have an agreement on how to deal with this. Yet the Swedish Democrats are constantly trying to make it sound like we are going to close nuclear power plants with political decisions. I think it is unfortunate, and I think it is a dishonest debate. We cannot ignore the problems of nuclear power. As the honourable Member himself mentioned, the impossible has actually happened three times. Nuclear power has its obvious flaws – do the Swedish democrats not see it?
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-648	Madam President, I would like Yes, I mentioned it, and even with the other types of energy there are shortcomings. However, it can be said that nuclear power is precisely what has led to the least number of deaths per energy power produced. That's something you should be able to take in. In this context, I think there is some irony in the fact that the government's representatives call on municipal owners to continue the operation of fossil power plants with the introduction of taking into account socio-economic aspects. But you yourself are prepared to put down fossil-free alternatives. Vattenfall is fully owned by the state. But I understand that you are not interested in looking into this, because perhaps a reality can emerge that you do not feel fully comfortable with. On the other hand, I was going to ask you something else in my last line. It is linked to what the honourable Member said in his speech that land-based wind energy is one of the most profitable types of energy and that it can be built without any subsidies at all. However, the government nevertheless chooses to subsidise what is already profitable through the electricity certification system. Within the electricity certification system, almost 75 per cent of what is being built is wind power. It will be a rather strange entrance when the Social Democrats then think that we should subsidise what is profitable and send money to it. After all, we have a liberalised electricity market that will operate on a market-based basis. In which other areas could the Social Democrats consider directing subsidies to the most profitable? We have companies that are profitable. Should we target the biggest tax cuts to them – to the companies with the highest profitability? Is that how the Social Democrats reason on the matter? Do you not see any problem with subsidies aimed at the most profitable types of power you think you see?
i-GAaCaSThaY4aaE8QBqnjAU	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Mattias Bäckström Johansson! First of all, the electricity certification system has served the development of renewable electricity production well. It has gone far better than we ever dared to hope for. That's amazing, isn't it? The Swedish Energy Agency has sent out a consultation proposal on how to look at how to close the system. We will deal with this in the Implementation Group to see how to deal with the issue in the future. The honourable Member is unable to reply, so I may ask a rhetorical question. Is subsidising nuclear energy the only thing that the Swedish democrats can think is a good policy? I realise, as I said, that the honourable Member cannot reply, but it feels like you are always landing in this. Everything else is bad, but when it comes to subsidising nuclear power, the Swedish Democrats do not seem to have any problems at all. I think it's boring.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-656	Madam President, I would like I was very happy when Patrik Engström raised a few things in his speech. Several things were good in themselves, but I think about when he just lifted the cement industry and that it accounts for 5 per cent of the total Swedish emissions. He also said: we must see that electricity is available and that it is where it is needed. I would not be able to subscribe to this with greater emphasis. Only a few weeks ago we had a debate in this House. Then I had a change of line with Patrik Engström's colleague Monica Haider, who sits here in the bench. She was then unable to answer my question, because she had not heard at all the statement by the then Minister for Energy, i.e. your party colleague Ibrahim Baylan, in the election movement on the Gotland cable. On September 5, we could both hear and read that Ibrahim Baylan could consider opening a third cable to Gotland just to the cement industry, precisely so that you have access to electricity and precisely so that it will be available when it is needed. He said it was important not only to make fine moves in an election movement but also to stand behind what was said. Monica Haider could not answer a few weeks ago. How are you, Patrik Engström? Have you listened to what the Minister said? And what do the Social Democrats really intend to do? Pilot areas and other lulls do not help with the power outages. There have been 13 total breaks on Gotland in the past year. There is no way that this can be covered by pilot areas and other nice things when it comes to being able to cope with the cement industry, which Patrik Engström himself lifted. It is not enough for the industry to be able to switch to more electricity and we are going to meet the climate challenge. So what's it gonna be? What have the Social Democrats done on this issue? Did something happen? Will the government act at all? Can we get some kind of answer? Will it be a third Gotland cable?
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-662	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the question! It is as Rickard Nordin says: In the election movement, the energy minister at the time was out saying exactly what Rickard Nordin says. It is well to note that when the needs for a cable exist, it will be built. The power outages last summer were due to the replacement of old equipment. I do not know, Madam President, whether it is called switchboards these days, but I think so. At least a number of components in the connection to Gotland were replaced, which worked significantly worse than planned. I'm not at all as sure as Rickard Nordin that the third cable had solved these power cuts. Rickard Nordin may know, but I'm not sure about that at all from the contacts I've had with the company that supplied the electrical equipment that was replaced.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-665	Madam President, I would like Measures were being taken on the cables because they are old. If you had had a third electric cable, you could have run the electricity through it instead. Then one could have avoided the power cuts; it is quite simple. Patrik Engström says: When there is a need, the cable will be built. First of all, it's too late then. We see how it looks around Malmö, Stockholm, Uppsala and Västerås. There are needs now, and it is ten years too late to start building the cable. If Cementa, or for that matter other industry on Gotland, is going to do this, the cable needs to be built now. The electrical system on Gotland is full. It's only on graces that you have to build a solar plant on your roof. It's a full system, and it won't work without the third cable. Gotland can also help us on the mainland by exporting even more renewable energy – what we both agree on is good. Why isn't the cable in place? The preliminary work was done. Everything was done; millions have been spent on this both from the Swedish power grid and from Gotland. Then, under the previous government, it was stopped. Now the Minister has obviously opened up to this. When do we get word? Is there a cable coming? Do the Social Democrats want to build the cable at all? You say it will be built when the need exists. Then it's too late, because there's a need now. This was a moment ago. If so, why has the cable not been built just now, since the need already exists?
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-670	Madam President, I would like What Rickard is demanding is that we decide with political decisions when to build an electrical cable or not to build it. Of course, you can have that order. But we do have a business to deal with this issue. It is clear that the issue was up in the election movement, and it is clear that Gotland's situation is strained. I will take the question with me, because I cannot, of course, stand here and promise that I will ensure that a transfer line is built to Gotland within five, three or two years. I can't do that, and Rickard Nordin knows it very well.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-672	Madam President, I would like I think that Mr Engström and I agree that the mix of renewable and fossil-free energy is a good mix for Sweden. During today's committee meeting, we had an initiative on Ringhals 1 and 2, and I would therefore like to raise a few questions with the honourable Member. Swedish power grid reports show that the balance between supply and demand for electricity will deteriorate in the coming years, including for Ringhals 1 and 2 to be phased out. The economic and environmental conditions have changed since Vattenfall's resolution decision was taken. The energy tax has been removed and the price of electricity doubled, which improves profitability. At the same time, the change in the EU ETS means that the shutdown of Ringhals 1 and 2 leads to significantly higher emissions. Even if we turn a blind eye to the climate challenges, because they are completely different conditions and because there is a lack of impact warning, we have a comprehensive basic industry that has asked for an investigation. I cannot understand why the Social Democrats do not agree to quickly investigate and see what opportunities there are with Ringhals 1 and 2. Nothing is cut into stone about what to do after that. I would like an answer to that.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-677	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Teimouri for this. A state-owned energy company has carried out its own investigation and concluded that it is not economically justifiable to continue running the old nuclear power. Why should we question it politically? I can't see why at all. Liberals have a much more liberal view of nuclear power, and the risks of nuclear power are clearly not a matter for you. It's strange. As Rickard Nordin said, you want to run old nuclear power plants with cracks in the bottom plate further. Is it the future when at the same time we have a fantastic expansion of wind power and a large surplus of energy? We export 51 weeks out of 52. Of course we have challenges for the 52nd week, but then we have the opportunity to import – mainly Norwegian hydroelectric power, not coal power from Germany.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-680	Madam President, I would like It is not for us to assess the risk. We can note that when Vattenfall made the decision, it was completely different economic and environmental conditions. They've changed. The energy tax has been removed and the price of electricity doubled, which improves profitability. As far as the issue of climate challenge is concerned: on this basis, we would like to see an investigation carried out. Of course, Vattenfall is based on the conditions that existed when the decision was made. It does not matter that we investigate this. I still wonder what we are saying to the basic industry, which is asking for an investigation. They look with great concern at the closure of Ringhals 1 and 2 because it poses a danger to their operations.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-683	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Arman, for the question. Is it absolutely most important that it comes precisely nuclear electricity from the supplier or that there will be electricity that works? You can ask yourself that question. I have also met the base industry and heard exactly the same arguments. But even if these nuclear power plants are shut down, society does not stand still. As Rickard Nordin said, half a nuclear power plant a year is being built in new wind power. The power does not disappear simply because these reactors are being shut down, because new energy is being added all the time. When we electrify society, we will definitely need more electrical energy, but in a historical perspective the difference in consumption between the 1990s and 2019 is not very great. This indicates that we in Sweden are good at energy efficiency and smart solutions for saving energy.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-687	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me start by saying that Rickard Nordin is clearly my favorite in this debate. Energy policy, NU14, is the theme of today's debate. As is clear, I agree with the committee's view that Parliament should reject any motion for a resolution dealt with in this report. However, I will draw your attention to and develop my view on certain energy policy issues. The Left Party chose not to be part of the Energy Agreement, and there were several reasons for that. Among other things, the agreement lacked the deadline for nuclear power, which meant an opening to the construction of new nuclear reactors. It also included estimates of nuclear energy, which went directly in the opposite direction to 100% renewable energy. Nuclear power is not just an insecure source of energy. It is also expensive and makes the switch to 100% renewable energy production difficult. I believe that it cannot depend solely on the market if new investments in nuclear energy are to be made or not. Should not the citizens of Sweden have an opinion on whether or not to maintain nuclear power? In fact, we had a referendum on this once. Has everyone forgotten it? Nuclear power should be decommissioned because it is both an expensive and risky energy source and a finite resource. Madam President, I would like The Energy Agreement also abolished the tax on thermal power and reduced the property tax on hydro power. The bill is financed by electricity consumers through an increase in the energy tax. I find that unfortunate. I understand the need for investment in new technologies and measures to increase the impact, but I believe that there should be better ways of achieving this. Hydropower generates huge sums of money, yet only a very small proportion of the yield is allocated to municipalities and regions. I therefore believe that a greater proportion of the profits of the power companies should be returned to the regions where hydropower is located. I also want to see strong hydropower production combined with biodiversity and environmental objectives. One example of which could combine these two interests is the Letsi power plant owned by Vattenfall and located between Jokkmokk and Vuollerim. The result of the expansion has been Europe's longest drained river, 17 kilometres. I was there last week. It is possible to restore some of the river's water flow with relatively small means, thus restoring fish stocks and biodiversity. By allowing a few percent of the total flow to go above ground, one could give life to the riverbed, and the flow could pass through a smaller turbine so that even the environmental phase generated energy. This would benefit both biodiversity and the local community. I would like to see more environmental measures of this kind in the larger hydroelectric plants, but this requires clear political demands and an active energy industry. I believe that the fund solution established by the largest hydropower owners is a good one, but that more measures for the benefit of the external environment should be taken. Madam President, I would like Since the introduction of the electricity certification system in 2003, the deployment of renewable energy sources has taken off. According to the Swedish Energy Agency, 21.8 million electricity certificates were issued in Sweden in 2015, and today there are around 6,700 approved installations for allocation. The electricity certification system has thus served Sweden well when it comes to renewable production. However, there have recently been indications that the electricity certification system has played its part, and I therefore believe that in the future a review of the system is needed to see if it can be terminated. With regard to the target of 100% renewable electricity generation by 2040, I think it is both good and absolutely necessary for Sweden to have a chance to deal with the climate change that is already under way. I believe that the work to achieve the objectives should continue and that Sweden should be a country that takes responsibility for future generations. Investments in the Swedish energy system are an important and necessary part of the environmental and climate transition in Sweden, where the focus should be on renewable natural resources: solar, wind, water and forest. Sweden has knowledge and technology in a number of areas to be able to act, and I would like to remind you that it is much more expensive to do nothing than actually act. Climate change is a fact that affects everyone, and investment in renewable electricity generation is therefore absolutely necessary to achieve the goal of an ecologically sustainable society. Madam President, I would like These and many other important issues will come back to me and the Left Party.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-703	Madam President, I would like I would first of all like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. The transition is fast now. A few weeks ago we stood here and talked about electricity market issues, and then we talked a lot about wind power. Now I thought I'd start by focusing on the sun. 75 percent of all installed solar energy in the world has only been installed in the last five years. Thus, over the last ten years, the price has fallen by 90%. This is an exponential and completely spectacular development. I find it particularly interesting when you ask yourself: What started this? It actually started with a green local politician in Germany, Madam President. He realized one important thing, and it was that the sun is a fantastic energy source but that it was a new technology that needed to mature. He realized that he simply had to start a system to guarantee the prices of solar energy for those living in his municipality. This was highlighted by the national politicians in Germany in the early 2000s. They noticed that it worked and scaled it up at national level. This was the starting point for the incredible development that we have seen in terms of solar energy. This shows that investments lead to technology development and that technology development causes the price to fall. This has now led to sun in many places and in many markets being cheaper than both fossil and nuclear. So Sol is competing out other power generation. This means that in many places the subsidies of the new technology can now be removed. All forecasts are outdone. The sun has gone much better than you could have imagined. The same applies to wind, as I mentioned earlier. Just take the technology! The turbines now being built are much more efficient than those built just a few years ago. What's exciting about this is that when new technologies are being pushed forward to produce energy, it creates synergies in the rest of the market with, for example, such things as storage, where we see that technology development is starting to start now in the same way that solar technology development started ten years ago. All of this is great in every possible way, but as fast as the sun has gone, or actually considerably faster, it turns in the political right, especially in the outer right – three parties. A few weeks ago we debated electricity market issues, and I referred to them as power socialists, because that is actually what we are dealing with here. Through politically or ideologically motivated measures, production in Sweden should be controlled. Energy policy has now been concentrated in two main lines or main points. One is that you are quite opposed to renewable energy. They do not pretend to do so, but at least some parties are opposed to getting the support they deserve for having a more expensive connection cost. This is just one example. Then we are generally opposed to the subsidies that we have had in the past. It was the first track. The second track is that instead of beaks and claws they are now struggling to promote fossil energy and nuclear power in different ways. The first example is obviously Ringhals, where in almost Soviet terms one wants to force a company to run the production of something that is not profitable in any way and which the company has actively, time after time, said it does not want to pursue. Then we now want to find subsidies for nuclear energy in various ways, and here we owe the answer to how this should be done. The rest of us have still not understood this. Either the state can put tens of billions of dollars in the Treasury to directly subsidise the power companies, or a very high cost can be charged to the electricity consumers. I have not understood how, but the desire to subsidise nuclear power is obvious. The third example, which I think is almost surreal, is that they are now struggling to maintain subsidies for burning coal in Sweden. Now, 2019, in a situation when we know what the climate crisis means, when it burns along the knot in many parts of the world and when Mozambique has been exposed to the worst storm ever in the southern hemisphere, fighting to continue to subsidise burning with coal in Sweden is surreal. In their quest for cheap political points and in their eagerness to meet the friends of industry, M and KD, above all, are willing to tear up the energy agreement. You sit and laugh now, but it's really very serious, especially those here with the coal. It is therefore willing to tear up the agreement, which was voted on only a year ago, even though it says it supports long-term instruments for industry and industry. Madam President, I would like It is not possible to say that the transition that is taking place now does not present challenges, because of course it does. All conversions and changes pose challenges. Above all, perhaps it is about how the system will work in the future, and I would like to mention three areas where it is clear that action is needed. The first is all that concerns nets. It is about how to connect better with other countries, about the transmission capacity in the north-south direction and about the network capacity in cities. We have debated this. The second area is the role of storage or how we should carry the energy in different ways. It is about hydrogen, about battery operation and, not least, about how the electrification of transport should go as smoothly as possible. The last thing, which should really come first of all, is energy efficiency. There is an incredible potential here to do great things, not least in the industry but also in terms of household flexibility and the automation that is now taking place on a broad front. I'll sum up. There's a lot to do. But one should not think that it is possible to stop this transition. It is technologically and value-wise in time and will happen. The question is whether to oppose it in vain, as many on the right have chosen to do, or whether to accept it and welcome it, which is the choice that I have made.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-719	Madam President, I would like Mr Lorentz points out a number of points that one might want to discuss in greater depth. But he made accusations, if I may call it that, or at least the epithet of force socialists... perhaps partly directed at us. One can think about who is the most socialist in this context. Somewhere it is a fact with regard to the electricity market that we have today that, along with the market itself, this government, and partly also previous governments, has taken decisions on investment aid for some of the power laws. There have been tax breaks and reductions in energy taxes. We have an electricity certification system and reductions in property tax for certain power types. We have planning targets that have been set up in the past for wind power. We have offshore wind power. As the honourable Member himself put it, you should not have to pay for what it actually costs. But that does not mean that it will be free without someone else having to pay for the actual cost. I asked the Social Democrats a question earlier in the debate, whether it is really reasonable to subsidise precisely the forces that you yourself experience are the most profitable. If we do not discuss what is the cheapest or the most expensive, but simply take the view expressed by Mr Lorentz: why do we want to subsidise the most profitable power laws? Is it also an affordable policy in other areas where it is precisely the most profitable companies that need the most subsidies, i.e. those with the highest incomes, and which need further tax cuts? What logic does the Green Party find in this?
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-722	Madam President, I would like I thank Mattias Bäckström Johansson for the question. So that there is no confusion or misunderstanding: all the forces that have ever reached commercial impact have been subsidised. There is not a single force that has not been subsidised. Coal has been subsidised, hydroelectric power has been subsidised and nuclear power has been subsidised, and is doing so to a very large extent around the world and partly in Sweden. Until today, we have subsidised coal burning in the Swedish heating sector. That is what we are now removing and against which the Swedish Democrats and several other parties are opposed. Now I have heard Mattias Bäckström Johansson and others stand in the speaker's chair and talk about planning goals for nuclear safety and delivery safety goals. In other sentences you can say that you want more market. Then I think you have to go back and read more economics. That doesn't make any sense. Wanting politically planned economy and production is no more market. It certainly is not. I will reply more specifically to Mattias Bäckström Johansson's question. I am completely transparent about the fact that I think solar power and wind power have needed to be subsidised. There is no doubt about it. As I said, all power teams have been subsidised at an early stage. What I pointed out in my speech was precisely that things were going well and that technology was developing. Now we are moving into a process where these techniques can start standing on their own feet. As far as wind power is concerned, we are now dismantling the large system that supports it. Now it can stand on its own. As far as solar power is concerned, it is not really there in relation to the Swedish market. But solar power reaches on a commercial basis in many other major markets worldwide.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-727	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have never proposed a nuclear planning target. However, there are planning objectives that have been adopted in this House linked to wind power. Even in these deviations from a purely liberalised electricity market, it is more planned economic. That is what has characterised energy policy, which means that there is strong political governance and a link in terms of how we want to shape it forward in time. Then it is less relevant for individual companies or households what a kilowatt-hour costs a hot summer day if there is no electricity available on a cold winter day. It is important to be able to achieve a reasonable system cost over all hours of the year and to ensure that there are opportunities for companies to develop, so that they can have growth, have new start-ups and can build new residential areas and not limit themselves. There, the honourable Member must realise that there will be a problem when the capacity factor drops in the power system and we may have situations in the future when we will not be able to meet the power demand that exists during the cold winter days of the year. There was something more that I would say about Lorentz Tovatt's post, but I lost the thread.
i-7a7d095f94dfaf8e-731	Madam President, I would like I thank Mattias Bäckström Johansson for this. Now he mentioned power needs. As has been said earlier in the speaker's chair, it is a bit trivial. What is it you're referring to? Is there a shortage of capacity in networks in big cities? Is that what this is all about? This will not be solved by wanting to subsidise nuclear power more. You can't build nuclear power stations in the big city. So these are different things. I interpret Mattias Bäckström Johansson in this way precisely because today we have a very large net export of electricity in Sweden. We export an incredible amount of electricity. Of course, it is very positive that we are doing so. Once we import electricity, it comes mainly from the hydroelectric power in Norway. I therefore interpret the debate on the need for energy as referring to the lack of capacity in urban networks. Then there are other measures than subsidising nuclear power that would put an end to this problem, not least that we should be more efficient in the use of electricity and that we simply need to extend the networks.
