i-60fa296f155a828a-0	Madam President, I would like Last week, EU leaders met in Brussels. The first issue on the agenda was the conference on the future of Europe. Then we discussed what came to dominate the meeting, namely the EU's long-term climate strategy. During dinner on Thursday, we would have had a long discussion on the EU's next long-term budget. It was a very short one and a adoption of the conclusions. I'll get back to that. But the other issues on the agenda were also discussed at the time. On Friday we had a meeting of the Eurogroup and a meeting in Article 50 on Brexit. Madam President, I would like We were able to decide without discussion on the framework for the conference on the future of Europe proposed by the President of the Commission. For the government, it is important that the conference does not lead to proposals for treaty changes or stand in the way of the work on the priorities agreed by the EU in the strategic agenda earlier this year. On the other hand, we want to see a broad dialogue that also involves national parliaments. The Government will return to the Riksdag when there are more detailed preparations to be taken up in the Council. Madam President, I would like As I said, the main issue was the climate. The European Council has dealt with climate change on several occasions during the year. Now was the time to make decisions. There was a long discussion that could only be concluded late at night. Some countries held back to the last, but in the end the objective of a climate-neutral EU by 2050 could be adopted. An exception was made for Poland in terms of implementation. They have not wanted to fully adhere to the objective. Of course, I would have preferred all Member States to support this increased level of ambition, but that was not possible at the end of the day. Nevertheless, the decision on a climate neutral EU by 2050 is a very important signal in the EU and to the outside world. It is also the decision requested by the Commission in order to move forward with the comprehensive framework that will enable the EU's green transition. I look forward to returning to that work. Madam President, I would like The discussion was then intended to be devoted to the EU's long-term budget and the so-called negotiating box presented by the Finnish Presidency for the meeting. However, since the hearing has in no way moved forward since the last discussion in October, we agreed to postpone the discussion to the next meeting. At the beginning of next year, the President of the European Council, Mr Michel, will talk with all the Member States one by one. We then expect an extraordinary summit on this issue. In any case, the final negotiation will be difficult, as the Member States are very far apart. A majority of countries want a larger budget and, in addition, discontinued discounts. Sweden, together with like-minded countries, will continue to work to, among other things, limit the overall budget and have continued discounts, so that the Swedish fee is kept down as much as possible. Madam President, I would like As regards Russia's destructive action in Ukraine, Chancellor Merkel of Germany and President Macron of France gave reports from last Monday's meeting in Paris between Ukraine, Russia, Germany and France. Despite the signs of some small successes, the clear assessment was that Russia did not nearly implement its commitments under the Minsk Agreement. With this, the financial sanctions were extended. We then spoke briefly about the other items on the agenda, namely Africa, the WTO, Turkey and a late addition of solidarity with Albania following the earthquake. Madam President, I would like On Friday, a Euro Summit took place in which the countries that do not have the euro as their currency also participated. The European Central Bank was represented at the meeting by its new President, Christine Lagarde. The meeting was devoted to the work on the deepening of EMU. These are basically three things: the European Stability Mechanism, the Banking Union and a budgetary instrument for the euro area. We received a report on the progress of the work. No decisions were made at this meeting, but these questions will be returned to at our June meeting. Madam President, I would like The meeting concluded with the fact that, in the light of Thursday's elections in the UK, we discussed Brexit. The election outcome was a clear majority for the Tory party. What is likely to happen now is that we will see a British withdrawal on last January. I am the first to regret that this is happening, but it is good that it is done in an orderly manner. We are now awaiting intensive negotiations on the future relationship. Against this background, it is good that we were able to agree on how the framework for the forthcoming negotiation should be set up on the EU side. Among other things, the Commission was asked to produce proposals for a broad negotiating mandate which will then be discussed in the General Council. During the negotiations that take place after the withdrawal, the government will work to ensure that the relationship between the EU and the UK is as broad and close as possible. It is important for jobs, the economy and security, both in the EU and in Sweden. This, Madam President, was the report back from the meeting.
i-60fa296f155a828a-11	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. It's been an intense week. There have been elections in Britain. The UN climate conference in Paris, COP 25, has taken place. And of course there has been a European Council meeting. I'll start with the climate. Despite the disappointment of the Madrid meeting, it is positive and welcome that the EU is raising its climate ambitions, with, among other things, a goal of achieving climate neutrality by 2050. Of course, it is serious that one of the EU's biggest emitters, Poland, chooses to opt out of the agreement in practice. But I am counting on the government to do what it can to ensure that at the June summit, if I understand correctly, the European Union will reach agreement. A strong and united Europe is what we know can make a real difference on the climate issue. I think I would say that, even though the outcome in Madrid was not satisfactory. We know, of course, that it is not enough just for the EU to step up its climate work. 90% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions occur outside the EU. It is then important to bring the really big emitters along. One of the most important explanations, I think, is what the Prime Minister mentioned in the EU Council before the European Council, namely that one must try to see the link between reducing emissions and economic growth. I would also like to say something about the conclusions of the report from the meeting. The energy mix has obviously been discussed, and it is welcome that nuclear power is mentioned in the conclusions. We have said many times that it is a part of achieving the necessary energy transition. But it will not be enough for the EU to raise its own ambitions. There is also a need for the whole world to follow suit. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how he wants the EU to act in order for the large emitters outside the EU to be prepared to increase their national commitments.
i-60fa296f155a828a-16	Madam President, I would like I share the view – it feels good that the EU made this decision. It is in fact the case that the decision was designed so that at this stage a Member State cannot commit itself to implementing the objective. That is how the conclusion is formulated. That means, at least for me, that everyone is behind it. But there is one Member State that needs longer, they say, in order to be able to decide to implement this. As Mrs Roswall said, we will come back to the issue in June next year. It is true that we have large emission nations outside the EU. In the conclusions, however, we note that we ourselves see that this represents great opportunities, as was also the case with Jessika Roswall. It's an opportunity in itself, and that's how you have to discuss it. For example, when the Commission plans to design its Green Deal more concretely, allowances will be included there. That is one of the things we need to discuss with others – to embrace that concept, as it were. We also talked about the correction mechanism for the import of dirty goods, if I put it that way. It is a discussion that the EU has to show the outside world that we think it should cost us not to do the right thing in terms of reducing emissions. There, the EU has the opportunity to push the outside world and ensure that more people are in a proper position to join the Paris Agreement.
i-60fa296f155a828a-20	Madam President, I would like As I said, it has been an eventful week. In Britain, they are now ready with their choice, and we have a result. There I share the Prime Minister's view – we are disappointed by Brexit itself, but now it is about getting an orderly process. Brexit will have implications for the EU budget. The Moderates have always had a budget-restrictive line. Last week we had a discussion in the EU Council before the European Council on what Sweden and the Prime Minister would say about the tight line. I do not think that Sweden should apologise for the fact that we have this view and clearly stand up for our interests. I understand that this was a very brief discussion, but I still wonder if the Prime Minister can briefly explain what he said in the budget discussion.
i-60fa296f155a828a-23	Madam President, I would like We share the view of Britain. Now it is important to get a good, broad and strong relationship – as strong as possible. The problem will be that time is so incredibly short. If the United Kingdom persists in not requesting an extension, which should be done by June at the latest, it will be eleven months for such a complex negotiation. It is so complex that I think it can be difficult to reach all parts. As far as the budget is concerned, there was no discussion in practice. The President, Mr Michel, noted that nothing has happened since October except that the box is now on the table. As a matter of fact, nothing in the differences of opinion has changed. That is why he felt it would be better for him now to speak to everyone in private, to form an opinion and to come back to the extraordinary summit that is likely to be held in February.
i-60fa296f155a828a-25	Madam President, I would like What shines a little with its absence in the Council conclusions is precisely the question of the budget. It is mentioned in two paragraphs, which says nothing at all. It is quite obvious that the Member States are quite far apart. One reason for this is likely to be that some countries, such as Sweden, want to use the EU budget as a weapon to force other Member States to accept migrants, which is extremely unpopular in some corners. Sweden is the country in the EU that has received the highest number of non-European immigrants per capita in recent decades. One can look at the effects this has had on our country. I am thinking, above all, of mass unemployment and huge dependency on subsidies among adults in the midst of a fiery boom, extensive and systematic fraud against our insurance systems through falsified identities, a cost explosion in the municipal sector that is already affecting the weakest in society and will be very difficult to deal with in a future recession, threats, violence and major order problems in our schools, large-scale radicalisation, terrorist financing and terrorist war travel among Swedish Muslims, noted threats to national security that are allowed to go free in streets and squares, daily shootings, gang killings and terrorist bombings against ordinary residential areas and entire districts and perhaps soon entire cities that are more or less controlled by organised crime. Here in my own constituency in Stockholm, three children are being robbed every day. Given that the Prime Minister himself bears a large part of the responsibility for this, I would like to ask whether he also sees ownership in that several countries become less and less eager to embark on the same tragic path as Sweden, which also makes the Swedish negotiating position even more tricky.
i-60fa296f155a828a-29	Madam President, I would like Was it something that was not due to migration? The weather was forgotten. Maybe it could be better, too. I understood that the issue began with the budget. That was the question. Okay. No, it's not the big dividing line here. The big dividing line is that there are many who want a larger budget, who do not think that we need to take into account the fact that the UK is actually leaving the EU, who want to remove the rebates. That is what this issue is about, and that is why it will take time. Sweden has a clear position. That is what we are expressing and will continue to express. We'll see how the negotiations work out in the future.
i-60fa296f155a828a-32	Madam President, I would like So I mention that children are robbed in the streets and squares of Sweden, here in Stockholm, and the Prime Minister chooses to joke about it and thinks it's funny. No, Stefan Löfven, it's not funny. It's terrible. These are two major issues, as the Prime Minister says. The size of the budget is probably the most important thing, but this is not something unimportant. There is great resistance among several Member States on this particular issue. Then you can start thinking a little bit. A few weeks ago, the Prime Minister visited Malmö, and then he said: We're going to have fewer. Maybe it's a little sparkle of common sense somewhere. But one question remains. If the Prime Minister wants fewer asylum seekers in Sweden, why would he want to impose more on other countries? Why should we spend our political capital – and also money, because that is the issue in the end – on a policy that we ourselves do not want to impose on other Member States that policy?
i-60fa296f155a828a-35	Madam President, I would like That question was not on the agenda at all. We did not discuss that issue. This is a re-report from a European Council summit, which did not deal with this issue. But logic is not so hard to understand. The responsibility is shared, which is reasonable. We will be 27 Member States when the UK has left the EU. If you share the responsibility, this means that those who have received relatively more need to accept fewer. There is a very clear logic in this. My assessment is that the vast majority will want to participate in a good way and assume their responsibilities. Most people want to take responsibility. That's how it is. Then there are some who have not yet said that they want to take responsibility, but those discussions continue.
i-60fa296f155a828a-38	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister very much for the report. I can take the part that was not included in the previous speech, namely the one about the weather. It is a great thing that it is now 27 out of 28 or 26 out of 27 countries that have landed in being prepared to take responsibility for actually achieving net zero emissions in 2050. The challenges in this area are somewhat different for the different countries, but it is extremely important that we have a common direction forward in this. Of course, it affects our weather. Point two, the shift to climate neutrality, will bring significant opportunities in terms of, inter alia, economic growth, new business models and markets, new jobs and technological development. Forward-looking research and development and innovation policies will play a central role. It is fantastically well caught and describes what the transition is really about. For those who are on the track, this can mean great opportunities – in addition to ensuring that there is a better environment and future for our children. But this doesn't make itself. These are major challenges and, as I said at the beginning, different things will be required of different countries. In this situation, were there any discussions on what more Europe needs to do together to reach these opportunities? And what does Sweden need to do at home to be part of and take part of the significant opportunities that will be available in the future?
i-60fa296f155a828a-43	Madam President, I would like I feel the same joy that we were able to reach agreement here, even if one country says that it cannot commit itself to implementing at this stage. We hope that Poland will also be included in that part. But we have a clear goal, and that is good. There are great opportunities in this. Here we have the new technology and the new welfare, the welfare of the future, and that is good. But it is true that there are also challenges in this. The Commission is working on the so-called Green Deal, which should be a framework for how we put this into practice. One point is the emissions trading system. We need to step up our efforts and raise our ambitions. It will come back to more concrete proposals, but one way is for us to commit ourselves. Paragraph 4 also mentions different investment opportunities. This applies to the EIB, but also to the long-term budget and the so-called Juncker Fund or Invest Europe. There are also resources. It is probably the uncertainty of some of those who are on the farthest path that has made it difficult to bring this forward. You can see that a lot of support is needed in the transition itself. It is about everything from, for example, the concrete energy transition to people's need for change when this is to be done. We will have to come back to this. That is what the Commission will point out more specifically – the way forward to achieve the objectives.
i-60fa296f155a828a-49	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Prime Minister. It is also interesting where Sweden is in this work. I guess when you go down to a summit to get these things out, there's a thought about what we're doing here at home. It would be interesting to hear a little more about those thoughts. In the document, we move the positions forward. There has been work over the past two years where we have gone from being very disagreeable about having the courage to tighten the bow and say that there should be net zero emissions in 2050 – some of us have even thought in 2040 – to now having taken steps along the way. At the same time, there is a large generation of young people who feel a huge frustration that so little happens and that it takes so long. Part of this is also to give the impression that things are happening all the time and that there is a belief that you are actually on the right track. This decision is part of this, but what more can we do to convey the feeling that we are doing things and are on the right track even though there is much left to do?
i-60fa296f155a828a-52	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is important that young people in particular see that things are actually being done and that it is real. I think it is a good thing that we in Sweden have a national target for when we ourselves should be emission neutral, as laid down in this House. The government has also just today decided on the action plan linked to that objective. Broadly speaking, what we need to do is to do something about industry. I'm glad the transition is now taking place. Both the steel and cement industries are heading in the same direction: to become climate neutral in 2030, if I remember correctly. As far as transport is concerned, we have the objective of reducing emissions by 70% by 2030. The same applies to the accommodation. When we think about building and keeping a good level of construction, we also think about how to build climate smarter. So we have to go through all the areas, set targets and ensure that we have the resources and the means to achieve the objectives.
i-TRMDrW5BhG3S9jgYYsU6KK	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the statement by the European Council, Prime Minister Löfven. The Madrid climate summit was a great disappointment. We had hoped that more resolute action could be taken to reduce global emissions. However, in such a situation, it is all the more important that we, as a nation and also the European Union and all other fora, continue to steer our climate efforts towards reducing emissions. This was, of course, also the main theme of the European Council. An important part of this is that EU policy is moving in the same direction. Recently, the European Investment Bank took a very welcome decision to stop lending money for fossil fuel projects. The European Investment Bank is one of the major global lenders. However, the EU budget is still used to some extent to support sectors that contribute to increased emissions. This can be done both through certain parts of the regional funds and through elements of agricultural policy. I believe that we have reached the point where the European Union should draw the same conclusion as its investment bank: that there is no more giving money to things that increase emissions. My first question to the Prime Minister is whether Sweden is prepared to act for this – that it takes the same principled decision not to provide support for industries, industries and investments that we know increase emissions. My second question concerns the budget. I understand that it was not up for discussion and that there was no opportunity to comment at this summit. However, I wonder whether the government has told the Presidency and the other Member States that there is a consensus in the Swedish Parliament, as well as in the government parties, that Sweden's contribution should not increase, calculated as a percentage of Sweden's budget. Has this been made clear to the other countries?
i-60fa296f155a828a-60	Madam President, I would like Firstly, on the question of whether we believe that the budget should also be adapted to climate change, we believe that this must happen. We must come back to exactly what this will mean in terms of rules. But it is clear that the budget must also be climate-governing; anything else would be strange. I believe that there is a broad consensus on this. As for the second message, we had no discussion – we decided not to have it. If one opens the discussion, all 27 will want to say theirs, and then we would have said exactly the same thing as we said in October. There had been another turn, and we had had to postpone the climate discussions. But there is no doubt that they know what Sweden thinks. We shall bring it up again during the discussion that the President of the European Council will raise with all the Member States. They know what Sweden thinks.
i-60fa296f155a828a-63	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that the budget should not counteract climate policy. But the fact is that it is difficult to give aid to beef production, for example. I also realise that this is a difficult issue. But agriculture is one of the major emitters, not least livestock production. This must also be taken into account. The construction of airports and motorways, supported by regional funds, will also end in the same way as has happened over the years. I believe that Sweden has a role to play here – to step in and make it clear that there must now be green investments from the EU budget. I hope that Sweden will do so in the further negotiations. One way could also be to combine a small reduction in the levy with a reduction in some emissions that are counterproductive. I would then just like to wish the Prime Minister a really long and nice Christmas break!
i-60fa296f155a828a-66	Madam President, I would like It is clear that all support for agriculture will not be removed. Everyone realises that this will not happen. Perhaps I am so disturbed by the so-called area premium under Pillar 1 of the common agricultural policy. It turns out that many people are making enormous money on this. If you read the articles in the New York Times, you'll be quite horrified. This needs to be adjusted; it is a discussion in itself. But it won't go away. When it comes to roads, I think you should be able to drive a car, but it must be a clean car. I think that's the most important thing. It is good that we have good roads, and we shall strive to have that in the future too. I'm driving too. I'm going to celebrate Christmas in Ö-vik. Thank you for your wish and may wish Jonas Sjöstedt the same. I'm just going to take the road about Seoul in South Korea.
i-60fa296f155a828a-69	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. The reports are often summaries of the written reports we received before but do not say much about what the Prime Minister himself has been pushing for questions. I am therefore going to ask the question of how the Prime Minister has acted with regard to nuclear power, which was apparently a major issue discussed at the summit. There was apparently a struggle over whether to include anything about nuclear power in the texts. Finally, it was written that some states have indicated that they are using nuclear energy as part of the national energy mix. I wonder if the Prime Minister said something on Sweden's side on the issue during the summit, and if so, what. We do not see that Sweden is mentioned in reports about what different countries have said. We agree that we will achieve a climate-neutral Europe by 2050, and this requires many different measures. Renewable energy should be encouraged, but as it is now, we believe that nuclear energy is also needed to cope with the transition. The Christian Democrats received a majority in the EU Board in order for Sweden in the EU to lift nuclear power in the energy mix to meet the target. This is therefore Parliament's opinion, and it is therefore important to know that the government and the Prime Minister are pushing this issue also at EU level. Nuclear energy is mentioned in all the different scenarios developed by the European Commission. Yesterday, Environment Ministers also discussed green investments. Here, too, there was a major debate in which France and the United Kingdom wanted to highlight the need for nuclear power at least as a transitional solution. That is why I think my question is important: how does the Prime Minister view this, and how has the Prime Minister acted at the meeting? Has he raised the issue of nuclear power?
i-60fa296f155a828a-76	Madam President, I would like Sweden said that v i think it is extremely important that we now establish this by 2050. There was a COP meeting under way in Madrid, and we thought it was important for the EU to show that we are serious. It would be a very big mistake if we left the meeting without agreeing. That would be a very unfortunate signal to the outside world. That's what Sweden said. Sweden also said that it is important that we help each other. I pointed out, on the one hand, the possibilities – I usually prefer them here – with the new technology, the jobs and all of this. It's basically an opportunity. But I also realize that there are some who have a longer way to go. Then we'll have to help each other with it to make everyone feel comfortable. The objective as such has all been supported. Poland says that one cannot implement it and cannot commit to implementing it yet, but hopefully one returns. We got this in place, and it was important. Under the Treaty, it is up to each Member State to decide on its own energy mix. My intervention in this area was that we now had a wording that says exactly what the Treaty says. No Member State can drive anyone else to do something in this area, but it is up to each Member State. Now it became an add-on in the end, and it doesn't matter to me that some member states are indicating that they want to use nuclear power in their mix. It's fine, but it's up to everyone, and it was pointed out by almost everyone else.
i-60fa296f155a828a-81	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. I know it's up to every country, too. My question was more about whether the Prime Minister raised the need to include nuclear power in the energy mix for a great many countries. Now the Prime Minister says that, almost a little during the gallows, he accepted the wording, but apparently he does not follow the instructions of the Riksdag to raise this as an important part of the future in order for the EU to meet the challenge. One final point concerns what we raised in the run-up to the Prime Minister's trip to Brussels, namely the social pillar. Then I asked a question about this with minimum wages. There is now what I understand a directive in this area. Did the Prime Minister mention anything about this in the run-up to the future conference that you discussed on Thursday and Friday?
i-60fa296f155a828a-83	Madam President, I would like As far as energy is concerned, I have said exactly where we stand and what is laid down in the Treaty. No Member State can tell anyone else which energy is to be used by that State, but it is up to each one to decide. Let's do this. We have an agreement that gives that opportunity. It is therefore free to invest in nuclear energy and to use nuclear energy, and that is how it should be in other countries too. It's their decision, quite simply. Sweden has difficulty influencing other Member States in this respect. The social pillar was not discussed. We adopted conclusions on the future conference, and I will come back to what it will address in more concrete terms. We hear this far very clear signals both from the President of the Commission and from the Commissioner responsible that we do not want to implement anything that destroys our negotiating and wage-setting system. I assume that is the case.
i-60fa296f155a828a-85	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your opening speech, where I noted that you raised Russia and that it had been the subject of reporting back, that is, the four-party conversation that took place in Paris between Ukraine, Russia, Germany and France. I think it is good that the Prime Minister is addressing this. I would like to ask a supplementary question. After all, it has been a little difficult where the EU is going in relation to Russia. We all know that President Putin's biggest dream is a divided Europe. At the same time, Russia continues its aggressions in eastern Ukraine. Crimea is still occupied and so on. I note that the financial sanctions are still in place. That is also gratifying. But there are clouds of concern. Emmanuel Macron has raised the issue of dismantling bilateral relations and, in the longer term, creating better relations between France and Russia and, as I see it, between the EU and Russia. My question is whether the Prime Minister could develop the reasoning and tell us a little more in detail about the reporting.
i-60fa296f155a828a-90	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Nilsson, for the question. That is an important issue. There was no long discussion about the sanctions. There is a consensus, and that has been the case for the last six months. For every six months, sanctions are decided. A few years ago, we thought before a Council meeting that it would be a bit difficult and that some countries would like to remove the sanctions, but now there are no countries that want to. I myself visited Ukraine two weeks ago. It really underlined the importance of the European Union being there and the contacts and cooperation that we have, and not least the development aid that we provide, both bilaterally from Sweden and from the European Union. It's extremely important. President Zelenskyj is really actively trying to really get negotiations going. The exchange of prisoners has taken place, and what we thought could come out of this is further exchange of prisoners and moving the lines, that is, a withdrawal of troops. It is slow, but it is important that we continue to support Ukraine and are clear to Russia that this is a breach of the European security regime. As a small country, the European security regime is absolutely crucial to us. It is not okay to create new borders as Russia has done. At the same time, we want an exchange with Russia ourselves. We have an exchange from people to people. We have a joint effort to improve watercourses and so on. I think it is important to have that balance too. Most Member States have some form of bilateral relationship as long as they keep to the principle that it is the security regime and nothing else that applies.
i-60fa296f155a828a-95	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I am less optimistic about the bilateral peace negotiations between Ukraine and Russia. The so-called Steinmeier Formula could mean a great deal of built-in Russian influence. But it is not there that we should have our Question Time. Nevertheless, what the Prime Minister says is gratifying: the EU's line towards Russia is solid. That's how I perceive the Prime Minister. I wonder a little how the Prime Minister views Emmanuel Macron's initiative towards Russia.
i-60fa296f155a828a-98	Madam President, I would like What I have seen is that you want clarity in the decision. One cannot break the security regime and at the same time have some form of dialogue. Russia is where it is, and somehow we have to deal with both. But for us, it has been extremely important – and we are clear about this – that we should not discuss re-making the European security regime so that it fits a new situation. It's a sacred line for us. We need to stand up for the security order. You can't adjust the security order because someone's breaking it. There goes our line. But having a relationship with another country seems very reasonable to us.
i-60fa296f155a828a-100	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. It was gratifyingly the climate that was the focus of this meeting. I believe that not only I but very many Swedes see climate and environmental issues as the most important issues for the Union. In fact, we have a tool there to force those countries that do not want to take enough climate and environmental responsibility. We can also set a global standard by, for example, placing demands on new cars on the market: that they should emit less carbon dioxide. The Prime Minister himself is going to South Korea. There are several car companies there to testify that they are looking at what the EU is doing, because they want to sell cars to us. Then they'll adapt to our climate requirements. So we have a very important tool in climate action via the European Union that we should be careful of. Then it is very positive that the European Council was able to agree on climate neutrality by 2050 – the world is not up to any more failed climate summits – and that the Commission has presented the green one, which contains a wide range of proposals to be adapted to new climate ambitions. At the same time, one is very frustrated by the actions of Poland – and some other countries –. For many years, they have been resistant to climate change. To some extent, you can understand that. They have a very challenging situation with a lot of coal power and so on. But the problem is that they often also argue against the common solutions – in fact we all suffer as much. My question to the Prime Minister is: will Poland, if it receives some support from the EU budget for the transformation that it needs to make, be able to contribute more constructively to the other climate decisions that the EU will take in the future, or will it continue to oppose?
i-60fa296f155a828a-105	Madam President, I would like I fully share Åsa Westlund's view on the importance of the EU having actually taken this decision. It is important for ourselves but also for the outside world. We also put pressure on others. Unfortunately, the United States has another line. On the other hand, as Environment and Climate Minister Isabella Lövin pointed out, 70% of the American economy, if we count the states and the major cities that want to be in the Paris Agreement and what it means, is on the right side of this, so something is happening anyway. That's absolutely right. Green Deal will be a good support and practicalisation. Then there is Poland. Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, I think, have expressed a little different needs. However, there can be no question of such sums. I think it was EUR 500 billion that some country said it needed for the changeover. I hope that this will be seen as a negotiation offer, because it will not work that way. I cannot know, but it is likely that they will see that this path will nevertheless facilitate the transformation that needs to be done. If they get help with this and can begin to see how it will work for people, energy supply and all that it can be about, it should at least make it easier. That's what's our signal: that we help each other. We're not leaving anyone in the lurch in this case either. But you have to contribute yourself. You can't just wait for help, you have to contribute yourself. When you invest in the new, you also help yourself. That is the path we have gone. At the same time, we should remember an argument that I still think is viable. They themselves say that they have lived under a Communist regime for many, many years, and then nothing happened in this area. I hope that what we can do together will also bring Poland into a more positive spirit.
i-60fa296f155a828a-111	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your answer. Well, Poland also has the help of the legislation we adopt at European level on energy efficiency. It makes their everyday products draw less energy, their vehicles emit less carbon dioxide and so on. It is important that we help Poland and all of us to reduce emissions through tough common legislation. Nevertheless, I can be frustrated by the discussion that exists about moving to more decisions to be taken by qualified majority voting, not least in the area of taxation. There Sweden is a very strong opponent. If we are going to move to QMV in more areas, I think the natural discussion would be that this would happen in the climate and the environment. However, we already have opportunities in this area, and I think that a strategy forward is to use the possibility of qualified majority voting in the climate area even more and thus also to prevent some countries from being able to get in the way. Does the Prime Minister also see this as an opportunity?
i-60fa296f155a828a-113	Madam President, I would like I know it has been mentioned as an opportunity. There's going to be big discussions about that, I'd guess. We have not yet taken a stand in this way, but we must constantly push forward positions. There is one thing that will now be noticed. The fact that countries have their own energy mix is one thing. But those who want coal and want to sell coal will notice that fewer and fewer will import coal. Again, the Swedish steel industry will not need coal in the future. Then it is a very clear signal to those who now have coal. There won't be any of it. I believe that is also the driving force. I do not know exactly what the regulatory framework for decisions should be. But I think we need to push the process forward. At least we can think of such a line, but I think we need to think about it a little bit.
i-60fa296f155a828a-116	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your statement, Prime Minister. It is truly extremely gratifying that all Member States are now behind the objective of climate neutrality by 2050 and, of course, very boring that Poland is not on the boat yet in terms of implementation. But let us hope that they will change their position by June 2020. The conclusions state that a supportive framework must be established that benefits all Member States' work on climate neutrality. There is also, as we talked about at the European Council before the summit, that all relevant EU legislation and policies must be compatible with and contribute to the achievement of the climate neutrality objective while taking into account equal conditions. It is an extremely good and strong writing. As the Prime Minister previously told us, Sweden has been the driving force in getting that writing in. One logical conclusion, if I may say so, is that the proportion of climate action in the long-term budget must increase. It says so far that it is at least 25% that should go to climate action, so there could be an opening there. That's the one thing I wanted to talk about. The second is the energy issue, which has been discussed earlier today. The conclusions state that it is necessary to ensure energy security and to respect the right of Member States to decide on their energy mix. So far all is well, but unfortunately it also says that some Member States have indicated that they are using nuclear energy. As an environmental party, I see great risks with it. There are risks of final storage and uranium mining, as Moderate Tomas Tobé also says. I think it is very important that this wording does not open the way for money from the EU budget to be spent on nuclear – or future investments. And there is a discussion about future classification systems for green investments. To my questions, how does the Prime Minister view the work ahead in ensuring that all relevant EU legislation contributes to climate neutrality? How can we get a green energy and not some kind of transition energy?
i-60fa296f155a828a-122	Madam President, I would like Yeah, that's right. It felt good that the Commission had presented the Green Deal the day before, which will be what we are going to make concrete. It is about going through all the legislation, policies, financial incentives and whatever it can be to really pursue this and see that we are moving towards 2050. The Commission will come back to this step by step. But now the Commission has clear support in its work, and that is very important for the European Union. With regard to the long-term budget, it is, as Amanda Palmstierna says, at least 25% that is now stated. I would like to get it up, but I would say that it is now quite difficult to get 25 there. On the other hand, it says that the CAP, that is, agricultural aid, should also contain a substantial part. There's 40% there. So more is happening. However, we have every reason to do everything possible to ensure that the budget really is in charge and contributes to the 2050 target. As far as energy security is concerned, it is a national question of the mix. I think it is a good order, because then we will have to choose. I think we now see clearly that we have an even greater surplus with the agreement we reached three and a half years ago. It has meant that 80 billion have been invested in wind power so far, and I hope that we can continue to maintain a consensus here. That is because it is very important for investment. I think that is one of the most important things we can do, because with long-termism and stability, investment comes.
i-60fa296f155a828a-126	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister – and thank you for clarifying that energy is really a national matter! It is very important to keep coming back to this. It is also very gratifying that the Commission is in favour of changing this framework in its Green Deal. I would also like to mention Brexit. Last Thursday there were elections in Britain, and Boris Johnson gained his own majority. This will allow us to make a reality of the promise to leave the EU on 31 January next year. It is good that uncertainty is over, but it is also a great sorrow. Mr Michel described it as a divorce, and I can agree with that. Great Britain is an important ally for Sweden. After the withdrawal there will be a transitional period of eleven months in which the EU and the UK will negotiate the new relationship with trade agreements, as well as fisheries, security and research cooperation agreements and other things. My question to the Prime Minister is how he views the process between the EU and the UK in the future and how we can secure social issues.
i-60fa296f155a828a-129	Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, it will be a very complex process in a short time if it is not the case that Britain is requesting an extension. However, there is no indication of this; on the contrary, they have decided that it is eleven months. One can imagine – will only trade be completed in 11 months, plus all other questions? That is why Mr Barnier also says that we will very probably not have reached all parts, and the question is what kind of regulations apply then. Yes, if a trade agreement is not reached, it is the WTO acquis that applies. Trade is important, but it is also about the people living in the UK – and vice versa, that is, the British living in the EU – having predictable conditions. So it's gonna be really hard. However, we are well prepared on the European side and place great trust in the Commission and Mr Barnier.
i-60fa296f155a828a-133	Madam President, I would like Sweden has the world's healthiest population, but we still have a large number of sick leave. Before 2002, almost 900 000 people were on sick leave, and we will add all the people who were retired early by the then Social Democratic Government. There were a large number of people left in an alienation without any possibility of coming back. Thankfully, we have changed the regulatory framework, but now we can again see high levels – more than 600 000 people are on sick leave. The statistics show very clearly that women's sickness benefits are 89 per cent higher than men's. Madam President, I would like In the past, it was physical diseases, such as fractures and other types of conditions, that were dominant in the sickness statistics. Now these diagnoses have decreased, and unfortunately the number of psychiatric diagnoses has increased. In everyday terms, we call this ill-health, mental ill-health, and so on. The difference remains clear: Men are reported sick for physical diagnoses and women to a much greater extent for psychiatric diagnoses. It is difficult to give a clear reason why there are large differences in the number of sick leavers between counties and regions, but one of the reasons is that the Social Insurance Officer interprets the sickness leave certificates differently. There is an insurance medical decision support that the National Board of Health and Welfare has developed. From the beginning, this decision support was intended as a support to Försäkringskassan's administrator in the process of interpreting certificates and making the right decision. Now this decision-making support has become more of a law, and there is unfortunately a great deal of room for interpretation. This means that it is sometimes a lottery if a person gets their medical certificate approved or not. Moreover, there is no clear decision support for psychiatric diagnoses, often followed by co-morbidity. The administrator often requires the sick doctor to objectively describe the disability and level of activity of a person with fatigue syndrome, for example. The person can sometimes be so ill that he is not even able to get to his health centre, and to make an objective assessment of such a sick person I think is impossible. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has received SEK 4 billion for monitoring, development and evaluation of the medical decision support. We Moderates believe there is a need for a separate rehabilitation trail for psychiatric diagnoses. It is easier to judge when a person who has broken his foot, for example, can get back to work. The person may not even need to be on sick leave if the employer can offer other jobs at the workplace. To make an assessment of when a person with fatigue syndrome is back in employment is considerably more difficult, and there the assessment is highly individual. According to the government, the Social Insurance Agency's statistics on the situation show a stable situation and that it is moving in the right direction. At the same time, a petition has been launched against Försäkringskassan by people who have not received their medical certificates. We met some of this group here at Coins Square outside the Riksdag, and it was a large group of very frustrated, desperate and angry people. They have not received their medical certificates approved by Försäkringskassan because they are considered to have a work capacity. When they register with Arbetsförmedlingen, however, they are too sick to work. In my world, this is a situation far from under control. Madam President, I would like The difference between men's and women's sick leave is great. I believe that the feminist government has completely lost its grip on the issue of sick leave. From 1 July 2018, employers are obliged to make a rehabilitation plan for returning to work if sick leave is estimated to be more than 60 days. This is a positive measure. In the best of worlds we would have present and pay attention to managers and leaders who early discover that an employee is not feeling well and who can put in measures to prevent a sick leave. There is today an opportunity at Försäkringskassan called preventive sickness benefit. It is used far too little. Here an employer can offer his or her employee to participate in measures that could prevent a sick leave while the employer can review the employee's working environment and work situation. Madam President, I would like The Moderates want to introduce a longer deadline when we believe that there must be a target for the sick person to get well. There must be a clear rehabilitation plan to be followed by all concerned, and they will do everything to ensure that the sick person returns to some form of employment. The regulatory framework for health insurance has changed for many years. As the regulations now stand, the employer is responsible for the first two weeks; then Försäkringskassan takes over if a sick leave is deemed necessary. I have met a lot of people in my previous profession who believe that it is a right to be on sick leave for 14 days because the employer still pays salary. What many employers do not know is that they actually have the right to say no to pay sick pay for the first 14 days if, for example, they can offer other employment in the workplace that they think the employee could manage. The employer has a major rehabilitation responsibility. Here we have a duty to ensure that you can get all support that is only possible. In the opinion of the Moderates, offering early retirement, which was the response of the Social Democrats to reduce sickness rates, is not the right way to go. We believe that it is better to offer jobs that can be managed. As the majority of Parliament in this first step of the budgetary process has given budgetary policy a completely different direction from that we wish, we are abstaining from taking a position on the allocation of appropriations in Category 10.
i-60fa296f155a828a-149	Madam President, I would like We heard Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm begin with a passionate speech about how the sick people have it and how those with mental diagnoses struggle and have it difficult and sometimes even have it impossible to get to the health centre to see doctors. Then we came at the end of the speech, and the Moderates' solution to this came to light: a new withdrawal day at day 15 and more escalation in sickness benefit levels. From day 90, sickness benefit should now be reduced to 75% and from day 180 to 70%. We want to reintroduce the time limit. You want to lower the ceiling in health insurance. In the exercise we can also read that you want to tighten the qualification requirements for reimbursement in the sickness and activity benefit. The social contract should be tightened, the Moderates write. This is something I say myself. Madam President, I would like I wonder how Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm and the Moderates view the social contract.
i-60fa296f155a828a-154	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Björn Petersson for giving me the opportunity to describe exactly how the Moderates have planned for health insurance to work. Having a job is much more important than having a sick leave if you are able to work. We believe that one should be able to work to 100% of one's ability – if it is one hour per day it should be so. As I said in my speech, the reason why we want to introduce a Karen's Day is that the possibility of being on sick leave for 14 days, when the employer pays sick pay, is very often exploited. It is to mark that it is Försäkringskassan that takes over responsibility for any further sick leave. This is not given. We believe that much more should be spent on early rehabilitation, on early measures and on measures that prevent people from getting sick at all. A major rehabilitation responsibility rests with the employer. As I said, it is desirable to have a present and attentive manager who can make early efforts to prevent people from getting sick. This is where we see that there are social benefits to be made in order for us to have the social contract that we are seeking. It is important that we all have employment. Having an employment means more than having a wage; it means social association and coffee breaks.
i-60fa296f155a828a-159	Madam President, I would like The community contract was, yes. For me, the social contract means that those who work and toil should have the right to security on the day they have the bad luck of suffering illness or the bad luck of suffering from a permanent disability. For me, this means that the one of us who actually gets sick – because that's what we get sometimes – should not risk their financial security but should have a security that takes on. We see here that a moderate social contract is something quite different. It is intended to reintroduce the precipice, which secured people on 130 000 occasions. People came back time and again. It did not heal you – you became poor! So we're going to make it harder to qualify for activity compensation. How does it make you healthier?
i-60fa296f155a828a-162	Madam President, I would like I agree with Björn Petersson's description of a community contract where you should of course be entitled to sick leave if you have an illness or have an accident. But I cannot see that the solution of the Social Democrats to reduce sickness rates, which consisted of early retirement and leaving people excluded without any chance of coming back, was a way of building the social contract. I believe that people should be able to come back to some form of employment. I do not believe in leaving people out of early retirement without any chance of getting back into the labour market.
i-60fa296f155a828a-164	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the budget for Category 10 Economic security in the event of illness and disability. Since the framework is already in place and our budget extends across the framework, we have no reservation, but we put our draft budgets forward in a separate opinion. Madam President, I would like The development of the health insurance system is deeply worrying. The number of human fates in which the sick, the elderly or the disabled have been caught is innumerable. Christmas is approaching, and for many Christmas becomes more stress than Christmas efrid when you are ill and insured and may not have access to either health care or financial security. And the discontent is growing around the country. We see this not least through the Social Insurance Rebellion. Madam President, I would like Many hoped that the Social Democrats would do better for the sick. Instead, however, insurance has increased dramatically since the Social Democrats came to power. They are, in practice, taking a harder line towards the sick than the Reinfeldt government did. Many people today feel that there is an eating testup already after six months, well before the old time limit at three years and also without the possibility of recovering sickness benefit. Although we in the Swedish Democrats see the need for control stations to test people's work capacity and enable rehabilitation, so that they can get healthy and get back to work, we believe that today's insurance of severely ill people is completely unreasonable and that a change must take place. Madam President, I would like Today, severely ill people are insured. People feel so terrible. There are even examples of those who have chosen to take their own life. Around the country there have been various forms of light manifestations in memory of these people. It is amazing that what was originally intended as a rehabilitation chain precisely for rehabilitation has turned the Social Democrats into an insurance chain. Madam President, I would like Anyone can suddenly suffer illness or an accident that makes it impossible to work at all, at the same pace or with the same type of work. After many years of work and payment of taxes and as a citizen of Sweden and living in Sweden, it should be an obvious part of the social contract to have financial security and access to health care and rehabilitation even in such a situation. We therefore take it very seriously that the social contract today does not deliver, but is failing people now that welfare is under severe pressure. It is time to restore basic security in Sweden. Our starting point is that those who are ill should have the best possible rehabilitation and basic financial security, and those who are able to get well should have the best possible conditions and incentives to return to work. Madam President, I would like Today, sick leave increases due to mental illness at a frighteningly high rate and is the most common cause of sick leave. The Social Democrats have failed fatally to create good working conditions in the public sector. Those who pay the highest price for this today are, above all, women and especially mothers of young children who wear themselves out completely and suffer from burnout and depression and thus sick leave. It is a serious gender equality problem that the government should take much more seriously. Then I don't mean to make sure people are safe to improve sickness statistics, but to get to the bottom of why so many women feel so bad and have a strategy to strengthen mental health. On top of everything, many people who suffer from mental illness also face incomprehension in a rigid system that is not adapted for those with mental illness. We therefore invest in our budget 100 million annually in order to strengthen the competence of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency in dealing with them with mental health problems, in order to at least try to do something. Madam President, I would like The assessment to be made after 180 days of sickness benefit has generated a great deal of debate, and the insurance policies at this time have increased. We see it as deeply problematic that sick people lose their financial security because the Swedish Social Insurance Agency estimates from the current assessment that a person could in theory take some fictitious fantasy job on the labour market, while the Swedish Public Employment Service estimates that such jobs do not exist and that the person is not Employable. This has to stop. We therefore want, as we put forward in proposals and put money into our budget, that after 180 days of sick leave, you should be tested against jobs that are real and within your own area of competence and not tested against the whole labour market. But the Social Democrats have said no to that. We'll see what comes out in the next investigation. Today it is also very difficult to be granted sickness benefit. We want to reintroduce the possibility of temporary sickness benefit, because it could lower the threshold of basic financial security while not permanently getting stuck in sickness benefit. We also want to increase the guarantee level of sickness benefit by SEK 300 per month, as we believe it is far too low today. We also invest in strengthening the housing supplement in order to reach the most economically vulnerable. Madam President, I would like In the long term, we would like to get to the bottom of how the whole system of health insurance is designed. We have proposed a new parliamentary committee, to which the government unfortunately rejects it. However, until such basic work has been done, we believe that people should in any case receive better treatment and support in the sick leave process in the current system. A report from the Social Security Inspection shows that the assessments at days 90 and 180 in the rehabilitation chain are not of sufficient quality, as in many cases there is no basic investigation work. The contact between Försäkringskassan and the policyholder is usually via e-mail and telephone. Personal meetings are only exceptional. We believe that regular personal contact and reconciliation meetings and control stations involving the individual, employer, health care and the Social Insurance Agency must become more common. To remedy some of these problems, we invest SEK 100 million more than the government also in the grant for the sick leave process. In the long term, however, support for the individual in coordination between all the actors involved must be further strengthened, as it is very difficult for those who are ill to manage all their own contacts with all the actors involved. Today, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has a coordinating responsibility. But it is obvious that it does not work, since people fall between the chairs, between different assessments and different authorities. That is why I think it is a good thing that the government has produced the proposal for a coordination effort in health care. It is a step in the right direction, but I do not think it is enough. Several consultation bodies have also pointed out the risk that it will be unclear who will be the coordinator, whether it will be the coordinator in the new coordination operation or the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. We therefore want to explore the possibility of having a coordination responsibility in one place, which should really be able to support the individual. Today you often say that you have to be healthy in order to be ill, for that is indeed the case. It is very demanding to be the spider in the net and have contact with all the authorities. Here the government should look even more closely at how we can strengthen support for the individual. Madam President, I would like We also want to reform sickness pay. We want to change the regulatory framework to make it both cheaper and easier to hire and thereby reduce the burden on micro and small businesses. It could also make it easier for smaller companies to hire people who have a history of illness or who have been on long-term sick leave. These proposals, together with a series of other improvements, have been invested in our budget. In total, we spend over 5 billion more than the government on reforms in health insurance and on support for people with disabilities. Madam President, I would like We believe that it is time for the Social Democrats to speak clearly about what is a priority. Is it continuing a irresponsible migration policy where a Minister of Defence from Iraq can become a Swedish citizen, move back to Iraq and receive sickness benefit and child benefit, while cancer sufferers are put into poverty? Or is it putting people's well-being and access to health insurance, health care and rehabilitation first? Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats believe that those who are ill should also have the right to experience Christmas efrid. We are prepared to invest in a restored security in Sweden even for those who are ill or have a disability.
i-60fa296f155a828a-184	Madam President, I would like Christmas is at hand and many are planning a peaceful holiday. Some stress to get the patties bought. But in today's Sweden it does not only mean stress over having time for all Christmas activities, but for many it has been a trying year with poverty and disease and now a worry and stress about all the costs that the Christmas celebrations bring. Will there be money for Christmas presents for the children and grandchildren? Can we have food on the Christmas table and at the same time buy a Christmas tree? And how are we gonna get through the time after Christmas when the leftovers are over? However, I do not want to give the most to those who already have the most. I can honestly say to you with the biggest fortunes: now you actually have to stand back – now it's ordinary people's turn! I want to focus on pensioners and families with children. ..................................................... Here's another quote:. All children should be able to grow up in safe conditions. Every child has the right to grow and develop according to his or her own circumstances and wishes, regardless of his or her background and the family's finances. ..................................................... That is what Stefan Löfven and Ulf Kristersson said in their Almedal speeches just over a year ago – and you can never guess what happened then. Madam President, I would like The Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats reduced the tax by up to 20 billion for those who already have everything and did not invest a penny in sickness benefit. As if it were not enough, the government, the Centre Party and the Liberals' budget for next year means over 6 billion in Christmas presents to the absolute elite of society when the military tax is abolished. This happens at the same time as families with children become poor because of illness in the family. Parents cannot afford to buy skates for their children. It's completely unworthy. The 2 1⁄2 million you who Volvo CEO Martin Lundstedt earns annually from the tax reduction could have gone to winter jackets in poor families with children. But, Madam President, the Social Democrats and the Moderates do not work, no matter what has been said in the electoral movement. Reality looks like it does. There's gonna be bigger gaps and more poor people. The proportion of families living with low economic standards has doubled in the 2000s. Some children come back from Christmas holidays and talk about exotic luxury holidays, while others have not gone further than the children's playground. After the Christmas and New Year holidays comes the poorest month of the year. Many people find it difficult to make ends meet in January. It is particularly difficult for pensioners and long-term ills, for those who have worn out their bodies during a long working life and who are no longer able to cope, and for those who have had the bad luck of getting sick or having an accident. After the turn of the year, the new state budget will become effective. The effects of the 73-point group's priorities will then be clear. The government makes a distinction between those who have sickness and activity benefits, so-called sickness pensioners, and old-age pensioners. At the turn of the year, the guarantee pension is slightly increased, and the ceiling of the housing supplement for old-age pensioners is increased by SEK 1,400. The increases are welcome and necessary but far too small. Remarkable is that the government does not implement the corresponding change for those who have sickness and activity benefits. Why wouldn't the country's disability pensioners deserve the same terms? I've been living on activity compensation myself, and I know how impossible it is to make it all go together. People can't afford to pay the rent, so Christmas presents aren't even on the wish list. In SVT's Sick Stress Linda talks about how she stands for eight months without sickness benefit and gets to live on her husband's income. Her condition is aggravated by all the fighting with the Social Insurance Agency. She'll be discredited and humiliated. This is a recurring testimony and one of the greatest tragedies of our time. If the Left Party budget had instead been in place, the guarantee pension and the guarantee level of the sickness and activity benefit would have been increased by just over SEK 1 000 per month. The tax gap between those who work and pensioners and the sick had been closed. And, of course, the housing allowance for persons with sickness and activity benefits would have been increased in the same way as for old-age pensioners. Madam President, I would like The universal miracle cure in Sweden in 2019 seems to be called Försäkringskassan. Go over there and you'll get well right away! The time of wonder is not over. Instead of laying hands, we now have procedures. You'll be declared healthy right away. Jesus has played his part. Now only divine assessments of work capacity are needed. Praised be the Social Insurance Agency and the Government's directives! After a visit, ME-sickness can walk on the water, mentally ill feel excellent and cancer patients are healthy as nut cores. Hallelujah, work capacity is at the centre! The Left Party wants to repair the health insurance, which the bourgeois government began to destroy in 2008. We want to abolish the rehabilitation chain and make health insurance more personalised so that account is taken of such things as age, gender and previous work experience. Medical certificates should be given greater importance, and the employer's responsibility for rehabilitation should increase. In addition, the requirements for receiving sickness and activity benefits, which are currently the hardest in the OECD as a whole, need to be redeployed. Even if you have had the bad luck of getting sick, you should be able to live without stress and anxiety. One should, for example, be able to celebrate Christmas without constant stress that the money should not be enough. Madam President, I would like The growing gaps are due to political choices. In 2007, 41 000 people were granted sick benefits for the first time. In 2018, the figure was 5,500 persons, although the population had increased by 1.5 million. Fees have been around the same level all along, but payments have been reduced by over 100 billion. It is we wage earners who pay for health insurance through social security contributions, which is part of our payspace. But the money goes no further to the compensation systems, but to tax cuts right into the pocket of millionaires like Martin Lundstedt. The biggest cuts have been made for long-term sick people. There payments have even been halved, from 87 billion to 43. It's a scandal. At the same time, the government therefore chooses to abolish the military tax for those who earn the most. Charles Dickens's story about Ebenezer Scrooge is no longer just a Christmas story. A cooler Sweden is a reality in 2019. Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants a society where sickness and pension mean a continued good life with financial security. We want a society that stays together and where everyone can look forward to Christmas next year and all the years to come. That is why we will abstain in the forthcoming vote.
i-60fa296f155a828a-204	Madam President, I would like It was a fantastic litany from Ida Gabrielsson about the terrible society we live in. It is total disaster and great differences, and no one can afford to celebrate Christmas or be sick. Then it is surprising that the Left Party supports a Social Democratic-led government that lowers the taxes of the richest. It is also surprising that the Left Party supports a Social Democratic-led government which, in its regulatory letter, has entrusted the Social Insurance Agency with the task of denying as many sick certificates as possible. Instead of accusing the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats of being guilty of this great disaster, Ida Gabrielsson should look herself in the mirror and ask what party she supports and what consequences it has for the social contract we all agree that we should have. In a previous change of line, Björn Petersson and I agreed that it is a matter of being on sick leave if you are ill but that the important thing is to have a job. It is very boring that Ida Gabrielsson equates the Moderates and the Social Democrats, and I find it difficult to understand how Ida Gabrielsson thinks at all.
i-60fa296f155a828a-208	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are the party that spends the least money on sickness benefit. It's not harder than that. Although the Moderates have missed it, the Left Party comes to the House with its own budget with the proposals that I preferred. That's what we want to be the community contract. Neither the proposals of the Moderates nor the Social Democrats are good enough for us. That is why we are making our own proposals to increase the basic level of sickness benefit so that you get about SEK 1 000 more a month and to ensure that more people than today receive sickness benefit and have the right to be sick when they are ill and that people have the opportunity to celebrate Christmas, feel safe and not get sick more by arguing with the authorities. It is of course sad for me to hear that there is so little understanding of the situation that many people find themselves in and to hear the Moderates say here, perhaps right in the face of those sitting at home watching, how easy it can be to be on sick leave and that it is an exaggeration of me to tell you that people may not be able to afford clothes for their children. I can tell the Moderates that this is not an exaggeration. We can talk about which government is to rule and about tax cuts, but I know all about that situation. To raise money for the day when you are ill is not even possible with the levels of compensation and the system we have today, and this is what the Left Party wants to change.
i-60fa296f155a828a-212	Madam President, I would like I almost get upset when I hear that I don't know what it's about being on sick leave. I can inform Ida Gabrielsson that I know everything about fighting with and against Försäkringskassan when it comes to the fact that I have not received my medical certificates. I have full understanding and know exactly what I'm talking about on this issue, so I don't want to get it in my face that I don't know anything about it. However, we from the Moderates have said that we would rather see early rehabilitation and early intervention than people getting sick leave. This is much more important than allowing it to go as far as a sick leave. It is better that people are allowed to be healthy and may be in some form of employment than that they are sick.
i-60fa296f155a828a-214	Madam President, I would like I can certainly apologize to Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm. That is not what I meant, but what I meant was simply that the Moderates said that the level of problems that I and the Left Party previously raised did not exist. That was the beginning of her line. I can certainly apologise to Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm if she possibly has more knowledge of this than I thought. But then I also want Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm and the Moderates to look in the eyes of everyone on sick leave and apologize for the budget and policy they put forward.
i-60fa296f155a828a-215	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to listen to Ida Gabrielsson and Left Party politics. I heard from the speaker that money is the most important thing in this context when you are ill and that it is only a matter of bliss and that increased levels of compensation would solve the problems of everyone who is sick and anyone who is unable to work at all. Then I wonder, Madam President, whether Ida Gabrielsson knows that it is good to be able to work and to be able to take part in working life and the social community that exists when you have a job. It means rehabilitation. I did not hear a word from Ida Gabrielsson about rehabilitation or the possibility of returning to work. No, it should be easier to get compensation. Does Ida Gabrielsson possibly know where the money for our financial security systems comes from? They come from people working. I would like to hear what kind of rehabilitation efforts the Left Party rejects and does not mention a word about in the discussion on sick leave. But they want it to be easier to get compensation and that all the rules that exist at all for rehabilitation and return to work should be removed. Does the Left Party have any other proposal than the rehabilitation staircase that exists? What does Ida say about the need to give everyone the opportunity to return to work?
i-60fa296f155a828a-217	Madam President, I would like I'd like to thank Solveig Zander for the pass on where the money comes from. That is what I mentioned in my speech – that the money comes from abstinence, paid-up payspace. It is an insurance policy that all people who get sick should have the right to take part in. Instead, however, the Moderates and other parties in this assembly have chosen to use the money for large and extensive tax cuts – the money that people have worked and worked for and renounced in paid social security. There has been a dramatic difference between how much money there is in the system and how it looks today. When it comes to rehabilitation, the Left Party of course wants those who are healthy to work. There is nothing more important than that you should have the opportunity to get a job, says the Left Party. But it is quite another thing to claim that someone who is ill can work even if the person is ill and the doctor has said that it is. This is the question for us, not whether a person who has the capacity to work and can work should do this. We have therefore invested much more in rehabilitation in our proposal, which is contained in our parliamentary motion. It is about the fact that we want individualised rehabilitation instead of very rigid rehabilitation chains, which hardly lead to people entering into positive and good employment on the basis of the aspect of various disability problems that we see today.
i-60fa296f155a828a-220	Madam President, I would like What exactly is rehabilitation? Yes, it is getting help and support to get back to work. As Ida Gabrielsson and the Left Party think, we have given up pay for our security systems. That is what is important. But then we will have to work to the extent possible in order to be able to take advantage of the money invested in our security systems. This means that the most important thing of all is rehabilitation and enabling companies to contribute to the rehabilitation that exists. But Ida Gabrielsson has no suggestions on how to do this. I have to conclude by saying that Ida Gabrielsson does not know about the marriage code and that he is financially responsible for the person he is married to? I thought it was doubtful in that area.
i-60fa296f155a828a-222	Madam President, I would like Sickness insurance is an individual benefit, not as a subsistence benefit, for example. The beam is a little ambiguous there. There are other assessments you can make about, for example, housing allowances and such, but basically you are entitled to your own health insurance. I would like to say briefly that we have many proposals on how rehabilitation should be done, and this is very important. But don't try to mix up the cards, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm! You have ensured that people are assured that people do not get a level of compensation that allows them even to celebrate Christmas and that people are worried and become more sick by the system that we have today. Do not try to mix up the cards by claiming that the Left Party does not have rehabilitation proposals! We have far more rehabilitation proposals than are currently available.
i-60fa296f155a828a-224	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats' proposals regarding Category 10 Economic security in the event of illness and disability are detailed in a party motion. We also have a special opinion on this section. The Christian Democrats' starting point is that health insurance should be safe for those who lack the ability to work because of illness. At the same time, those who are able to regain their ability to work, in whole or in part, should receive help and good support to get back to work. Everything else is, in fact, a huge waste of both human and social resources. Man's value is not in how much he works or how productive he is. At the same time, however, we should not underestimate the importance of work for the individual. It can be about everything from self-esteem that you get to better opportunities to, for example, start a family and give your children good growing-up conditions. But not everyone has the opportunity to work in full or even in part. Those who have suffered from a disease or a reduction in performance resulting in a permanent loss of working capacity are entitled to sickness and activity benefit. In 2018, a number of important changes were made for those who have this remuneration. The guarantee was increased, the housing supplement was increased and the tax was reduced. Those were good measures. But we Christian Democrats want to go further. Therefore, we have in our budget option with a reinforcement of the sickness and activity compensation of SEK 2 000 per year and therefore allocate in our budget option almost SEK 1 billion for this over the next three years. For those who do not suffer permanent reduced working capacity, it is important that we have a functioning rehabilitation chain. We have deadlines and agreed reconciliation points aimed at ensuring that the sick leave process is characterised by early intervention, activity and clear rules. It shall also be ensured that the sick person receives continuous contact with Försäkringskassan and an early individual support. Not everyone can work 100 percent of a full-time job, but everyone should have the opportunity to work 100 percent of their ability. If work capacity, not incapacity for work, is the starting point, we Christian Democrats think it is reasonable to have more flexibility. We therefore propose that the fixed steps contained in sickness benefit, sickness benefit and rehabilitation allowance be abolished. Today, they are 25, 50, 75 or 100 percent. We believe that it must be possible for a person who, in consultation with a doctor, wants to increase his work effort by 10%, but who does not feel ready for 25%, to do so. We see that there are clear risks with a long absence. There is clear research in this area. It is about there being an increased risk of sequelae but also of social isolation and mental illness. We know that if you have been on sick leave for more than 180 days, the risk of sick leave increases. This is a development that we cannot accept. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that we also need to look at causality that may be outside health insurance in order to succeed. I have pointed out in this House on a number of occasions that we need a policy that helps to reduce stress and create the conditions for improving public health. The opportunities for each of us to put together our own unique life puzzle are important. They are, of course, influenced by policies in a number of different areas, not just what we are debating here and now. If it is the job that makes you sick, for example for psychosocial reasons, it is far from certain that sick leave from this job is the right medicine in the long run. This may be a necessary first step. But it is perhaps workplace measures that are the solution, or that it becomes easier to change jobs or that it becomes easier to move. Here I think we need to think much wider than we are doing today. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude this speech by mentioning two of the proposals included in our motion. One is about mentors, and the other is about work integration social enterprises. Although the vast majority of those who are sick are returning to work without needing work-oriented rehabilitation measures, there are people who are in a vulnerable situation or who, for other reasons, are not actually able to take advantage of this rehabilitation process. We Christian Democrats believe that there would then have to be personal support, so-called mentors, which could facilitate the interaction between the individual, the workplace and other actors. As Julia Kronlid wisely said, sometimes you have to be almost healthy in order to be ill. Mentors are then a means of receiving encouraging support to overcome the threshold that may exist for people to begin to exploit the opportunities offered. I know that many times people are unable or unable to see this for themselves. But a mentor could help these people to see and be a sounding board, a interlocutor, and a counselor. That is why we Christian Democrats want a system of mentors for long-term sick leave to be investigated. Madam President, I would like The second proposal I would like to mention concerns work integration social enterprises. They accept people who have obstacles to work but who, for example, Samhall does not work with. It is about people who are very far removed from the labour market. About a month ago I was in Jönköping and visited the Circular Centre there. It is a social work integration enterprise. It was a fantastic visit. I met staff, and I met women they work with. This company truly believes in every person's inherent power, ability and willingness to take responsibility. The CC, as I call them, has focused on helping women who are very far removed from the labour market and women who have suffered mental illness as a result of this. But there is now a successful job for women born abroad at CC. I felt hope after the hours there with the staff and these women, because they saw a potential in all people. The only thing that this company made sure to provide was the help needed to enable women to develop this. We Christian Democrats want these about 350 companies that exist today to double. Therefore, we allocate SEK 400 million each year for these work integration social enterprises to receive cover for costs that are sufficient to pay for managers and supervisors.
i-60fa296f155a828a-241	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating Category 10 Economic security in the event of illness and disability. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report. Then I would like us to reflect on the classification of expenditure: financial security in the event of illness and disability. It is about security for those of us who have the bad luck to suffer from illness or disability, security for us to be able to put our energy on becoming healthy, security when life is otherwise harsh and difficult and security when we are at our weakest. Economic security in the event of illness and disability is what these state expenses are for creating for our people. From one of the previous speakers, it has sounded like there would be an end in itself in reducing these expenses and that there would be another interest in superior security for the unlucky sufferer. That is not how we Social Democrats view the issue. Madam President, I would like For us Social Democrats, the goal is to have health insurance that means that those who are ill and unable to work have the right to rapid rehabilitation back to work and financial security during the time it takes and that those who are permanently ill and unable to work have a secure financial situation and not a constant lump in the stomach over how life should go together – a predictable and clear safety net and a strong society that is there for us when we are at our weakest. I'm sure there's some people listening back home who frown on their foreheads. And I'm afraid some of you will take more powerful expressions than that, because there are too many people around the country who bear witness to quite different experiences than the target I describe. Unfortunately, many people around our country are experiencing something quite different. I'm facing an outrage in comrades who are denied sickness benefit without understanding why. Comrades who, after 180 days of sick leave, are referred to the Employment Service are coming to me in anger and wonder if we Social Democrats did not abolish the longer time limit in health insurance. And yes, it has been removed. I can understand their outrage. It sounds quite unlikely that the person who has a permanent job that you can go back to if you get that operation that you are waiting for all of a sudden should be denied compensation and referred to Arbetsförmedlingen and the unemployment fund. But that's where we've obviously ended up. The rehabilitation chain, which was introduced in 2008, has several fixed deadlines. One of them is that one's work capacity at day 180 should be tested against, as it is said, normal work. If you are considered to be able to work to perform a normal job and there are no special reasons, you are denied compensation and are expected to make yourself available to the labour market. After all, it may seem reasonable that at some point in the sick leave process you should also be tested against work other than that of your employer. But as reasonable as it is that there should be a trial, just as strange may it seem to be that you should have to look for another job if you have a job you can get back to if you get that operation you are waiting for. This particular problem was highlighted in the del report No rule without exception – a safe health insurance with people at the centre that we had to present to us in January. The investigator points out that the requirements for postponing the assessment of normal work are considered too high. But there is also the question of what is meant by normal work. What kind of work should our ability to work be tested against? What jobs are we expected to pursue instead of those we already have? Here we have seen developments in application which, unfortunately, must be seen as anything but clear and predictable. Normal work seems in some cases to be anything, and yet it could not have been intended. The concept of normally occurring work is the main issue of the investigation. Safe insurance is predictable, and then it must be clear to us how our work capacity should be assessed and against what. When can we expect health insurance to cover for us? The final report of the inquiry will now be published in January, and I expect strong legislative proposals for us in this House to take on board so that together we can make health insurance clearer and more secure. Another aspect for us in this House to take forward is the sickness benefit. It would have been no wonder if the historically low numbers of new grants could be explained by an improved state of health in the population, but unfortunately this is not the case. Rather, it is because the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has become increasingly sharp in its handling and that the application of the 2008 regulatory framework has been developed so that fewer and fewer people meet the criteria and receive compensation. After the Swedish National Audit Office's review a year ago, we know that a large proportion of those who are denied sickness benefit remain with sickness benefit with ever lower compensation and that they do not actually have the ability to work. It is not a worthy order that those with permanently impaired work capacity should be forced to apply for a medical certificate over and over again, take up resources in the health care system and go with a lump in the stomach, uncertain about how to get your life together. We in this House need to ensure that those with permanently reduced working capacity are in the right regulatory framework. I sincerely hope that the review of the sickness allowance made at the Government Office will soon bear fruit. Madam President, I would like Now I have spent most of my speaking time telling you what we Social Democrats think should be done next and perhaps far too little time talking about what the government is doing. Let me therefore take a few examples. From 1 January onwards rehabilitation coordinators will be mandatory in the regions of the country. They shall, as necessary, support the sick person with coordination of the healthcare system and facilitate the return to, or entry into, the labour market. All our regions have had some form of coordination in the past. However, a uniformity structure is now being set up, and the regions are being compensated by 361 million in accordance with the municipal financing principle. We have heard that there has been some talk here about mental illness. It continues to increase, mainly among women. The large difference between men and women in this respect may be due to working conditions and duplication of work. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has been tasked with looking at working conditions, and we Social Democrats are continuing to work with parental insurance to create an increased equal responsibility at home. We have heard that the National Board of Health and Welfare will receive an additional 4 million for the development and evaluation of the medical decision support that is mainly used by doctors but also by the Social Insurance Agency's administrator. These are some of the things done by the government. Sweden deserves safe and well-functioning health insurance. I hope that we in this House and in the committee can come together in the future to increase the security of all those who need it most.
i-60fa296f155a828a-261	Madam President, I would like Health insurance – that's exactly what the word stands for. It's an insurance policy that should be used when you get sick. It's an insurance policy like any other insurance policy. Health insurance does not cover all permits. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency has made this clear but may not have communicated to such a large extent. As Björn Petersson mentioned, a lot is being done, but I would like to say that for the last five years it has been the Social Democratic Government that has written regulatory letters to the Social Insurance Agency. The Government has thus had its full opportunity to change the regulation letter so that Försäkringskassan can handle its business in a completely different way than it does today. Björn Petersson also talks about the rehabilitation chain, and there I agree entirely with him. But I'm missing a new rehabilitation chain for psychiatric diagnoses. As I said in my speech, one cannot compare a broken foot with a fatigue syndrome, as we are doing today. That is one of the reasons why we have the great mental illness that we are seeing today. Of course we should have a safe insurance policy, but that means an emphasis on insurance and that it should be safe for anyone who needs it. I would like to hear Björn Petersson's view on how we will continue to work in the future so that we can have a safe insurance policy.
i-60fa296f155a828a-265	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member asks me how we should continue to work for a safe insurance policy. I do not believe that it is by lowering the ceiling of health insurance, by stepping down on the levels of benefits or by reintroducing longer deadlines. I do not think that one way is to tighten the qualification requirements in the sickness and activity benefit. I think, however, that we need to work on the things I raised in my speech. The sharpest edges of our system today are sickness benefit at 180 days and normal work. This also applies to sickness benefits, which today have unreasonably low levels, as the Social Insurance Agency itself testifies to us in here. The Swedish National Audit Office also points this out in its report. To tighten up the requirements when both the national audit and the insurance fund state that the requirements are too strict today does not seem to me to be a way forward. Nor do I see that this is something in which we in this House can find common ground. On the other hand, I am convinced that in this House there is a will and a majority to work on rehabilitation and early action, to ensure that employers come at an early stage and take responsibility for their employees, to ensure that the Social Insurance Agency is involved and to keep people in employment. I am convinced that we can work for this together.
i-60fa296f155a828a-269	Madam President, I would like At the end came exactly what I was waiting for in Björn Petersson's line: rehabilitation. But there was a lot of talk about compensation levels, about money, about money, about money and about compensation, not about early rehabilitation efforts and to avoid a sick leave. I do not think that a sick leave will make you feel good. I think we should work with early efforts to avoid sick leave to the greatest extent possible. Björn Petersson also mentioned that on 1 January a law on rehabilitation coordinators was introduced. It is a good measure, but 361 million to 21 regions will not be many crowns per region. It's gonna be tough.
i-60fa296f155a828a-271	Madam President, I would like When I talk about health insurance, I talk a lot about levels, figures and allowances. That is what Sweden's workers expect from our system, what they see from our social contract. The day they suffer from illness, we will deliver a level that gives them financial security. That is the whole purpose of our health insurance system, as we Social Democrats see it. Sure, we'll work preventively. The entire work environment work is a parade for social democrats who are based on the labour movement and the trade union part I come from. Preventive work is done there.
i-60fa296f155a828a-273	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Björn Petersson, for your speech! I agree with what the honourable Member says about financial security and that we should be able to rely on the social contract. However, the aim of the Social Democrats has been to reduce sickness rates, and that goal has been above everything else. Previously, the goal was to get down to nine sick days. Although it has now been removed, it is still a matter of reducing sickness rates and improving statistics. I cannot interpret it otherwise than that this has been above everything else, and it has gone out on people who have been insured on inappropriate grounds and feel very badly treated by the health insurance system. My question to Björn Petersson is whether the honourable Member is prepared to really press the government to adjust the regulatory letters so that it is the social contract and people's security that stands first, not to improve and refine the statistics to make it look good and perhaps to save money for the state budget. I also have another question. Björn Petersson raised the assessment at day 180, and I really agree that it is a major problem that you should be tried against some fictional fantasy jobs that do not exist in reality. Here, however, we have a concrete proposal which we put forward in last year's budget and which we also put forward in this year's budget, namely that it should at least be limited to one's own area of competence and that it should be real jobs to be tried out against. Is there something that the honourable Member is prepared to include in the investigation and in the proposal to be presented, or perhaps even support already? I don't think it should take that long. This is a change that should have happened much more quickly. It is precisely at the time of the assessment of day 180 that very many are insured, and insurance has increased since the Social Democrats came to power. Here things must be done quickly.
i-60fa296f155a828a-277	Madam President, I would like The insurance policies have increased, says Julia Kronlid, and we removed the time limit. I am well aware that there is an announcement to the government to reintroduce it, which Julia Kronlid and others in this House have voted for. For us social democrats, there is no reason to reassure people of health insurance. People should have security in the health insurance system after the situation they find themselves in. When people go from sickness benefit to unemployment– as it is at 180 days, as I was talking about– they are actually only moved to another system. When compensation falls, as they do when the systems are intertwined, they end up on municipalities and the municipal income support. No money is saved anywhere here; only human suffering is created for nothing. Moreover, we do so at the expense of a system that we workers have already paid for. There is no point for a social democrat to move people around like that – absolutely not! Mr Kronlid asks me whether we should be on the government to change the regulatory letters in order to remove the targets. They're not here anymore. These were social goals, not targets at individual level. The Swedish National Audit Office has established that this governance had that effect, which was unfortunate. I didn't mean to. We strive for low sickness rates because we want people to stay in employment and be healthy. It's through rehabilitation we're going to get the sick days down.
i-60fa296f155a828a-280	Madam President, I would like The earlier deadline was three years. The idea of this limit has never been that severely ill people, such as cancer patients, should be secured on a continuous basis. The fact is, however, that today people are being secured sooner than with the longer deadline. At the time, it was also possible to return to sickness benefit. That possibility does not exist today. I would still like to say that the Social Democrats are pursuing a tougher policy than the Reinfeldt Government did. Then there is much to say about the earlier time limit. I am not in favour of re-establishing it as it was then, and we have not proposed it in the current budget. We propose a different system instead. Are the Social Democrats prepared to make sure that people actually feel better in Sweden and not just try to refine the statistics? I still want to say that that's what's above everything else. It is also about mental illness, which affects women in particular. This is a very serious gender equality problem that we need to get to the bottom of.
i-60fa296f155a828a-283	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member says that there is now another solution to this. But the truth is that at any given time the Swedish Democrats vote for the moderate solution when they get the chance – twice so far. One of them was the announcement I mentioned about re-establishing the distant parentheses, i.e. that, as Julia Kronlid describes it, on a continuous basis, secure severely ill people. Julia Kronlid also spoke in her speech about restoring basic security and now spending EUR 5 billion more on the sick than the government does. 5.3 billion goes to companies – an order job from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, one can guess – to take over sick pay responsibility, as Julia Kronlid described it. No, we work for the workers and for the sick, for their welfare and woe.
i-60fa296f155a828a-286	Madam President, I would like In the draft budget in the area we are now debating, Economic security in the event of illness and disability, the wording in the first sentence of the section entitled Appropriations and authorisation: ..................................................... I and several others get many reality descriptions from people who are rejected without knowing why. They are informed by doctors that they are sick and unable to work and a completely different one from the administrator at Försäkringskassan, and so they can be without compensation while Försäkringskassan investigates the matter. The administrator is not in contact with the applicant and does not cooperate with the employer. The list can be long, and I wonder if anyone agrees that this creates security for vulnerable people. It's a very long travel model. I can continue to list examples of the failure of the welfare model that we have today: when entrepreneurs do not know what compensation they will receive when they fall ill or when entrepreneurs and employers who are going to make a rehabilitation plan for returning to work receive blank sickness certificates. I've been discussing this with the minister lately. All these desperate people who do not agree that sick leave and sickness benefit help to provide security and counteract financial vulnerability should have something else to look forward to. It is high time we saw a result of what the report says about strengthening support for the individual at various stages of the sick leave and rehabilitation process, and it needs to be developed. As we know, sick leave, which we have not heard here before today, is a substitute for rehabilitation. You get a salary to be able to return to work. I and the Center Party expect to see a result in the near future. I heard Björn Petersson, from the Social Democrats and one of those who I believe belong to the government, list what he meant needs to be improved and what he sees in front of him will change. The Social Democrats have been running this country for a few years now. It is strange, Björn Petersson, that this has not changed. I have to agree with that. I sometimes wondered when I listened if Björn Petersson had changed sides. But to return to the Center Party, I and the Center Party are actually working for some very important and central points. The three most important are: The first is the introduction of e-income for all so that entrepreneurs also have a clear sickness benefit-based income and that other workers can know what they are getting. The second is to focus on preventive health care. By that I mean early intervention, as we have heard here earlier today, because they would reduce sick leave for all, especially for the long-term sick, of course. Even those with mental diagnoses would get help and support faster, before they get sick leave and need to experience the suffering they are going through. The third point is that it is not possible to continue with more people involved in the sick leave process, but someone must keep the tact stick and be responsible for controlling it. It must be made clear whether it is Försäkringskassan, Arbetsförmedlingen, the health care service, the sick person or the employer who must keep the takpin. There is a brilliant proposal in the Växjö region. There they have run a project for a few years called 4-Ess. This project has now been evaluated and very good results have been achieved. The secret, Madam President, is that the employer has kept the pace and has been convening in contact with all four or five parties involved. This means that you have reduced your health rate radically. There are no difficult changes. There are only changes, and we must have them now. I have three more points to make. The three points are quite old and well-known, and I have mentioned them before. However, since nothing has happened to these important points, I will refer to them again. The first point is that it must be easier to try to work without endangering sickness and activity benefits. The second point concerns the possibility of being on sick leave at different levels. We have also heard about this here today, and it is important. It must be introduced now. Not only can you be on sick leave 25, 50, 75 and 100 percent, but you can also be on sick leave 5, 10 or 67 percent. You must be able to test your work capacity and be able to report back to Försäkringskassan: This is how much I have worked. One thing is certain, and that would be easier to get back to work then. The third and final point that I am going to raise is also something that you have heard me say before. It is to be made clear that women receive fewer claims for injury. A recent report from the Social Security Inspection – this has also come from the Swedish National Audit Office – shows that there are doubts as to why more men than women are allowed to e-report. For me so m center woman and gender equalizer this is a very important factor, I would say. I expect that the government, which claims to be a gender equality government, I have heard somewhere, really gets to the bottom of this with the uncertainties of occupational injury insurance. Injustice depending on gender is no longer accepted. Madam President, I would like I support the report's proposal but expect that improvements and changes in financial protection systems in the event of illness and disability will be a priority in 2020.
i-Baq6ntg5NfasQM6nST3bXT	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the proposal in report SfU 1. As the previous speaker said, the health insurance system is supposed to be a cornerstone of our welfare and a hallmark of Sweden. It is essential for people's security and livelihood in the event of short or long-term illness or disability. In order to safeguard health insurance and trust that support comes when it is needed, as well as its financing and public finances, health insurance is required to be characterised by a high degree of understanding and acceptance from citizens. There must be transparency from the authorities on how it works. There must also be an explanation of why different decisions are taken. In addition, there must, of course, be cost control and sustainability over time. However, that is not the case today, Madam President. We have an authority that seems to have slipped, where trust is broken. Confidence in the entire insurance system is waning. We can discuss the abolition of the time limit for a long time, but it seems that the abolition has led to a much stricter assessment by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. In addition, there is much earlier during the sick leave process. This is serious. The insured person has come out of the ashes in the fire, you might say. The proportion of people who receive sickness benefit has increased very sharply without any major changes in the rules, either in this House or by the government. The social security inspection considers that this could jeopardise the entire legal certainty over time by different assessment of people with equal opportunities, even though it is the same regulatory framework. Confidence in the entire social security system is rocked. Liberals are behind the principles of the rehabilitation chain, but not behind the application as it has become. The rehabilitation chain must be as it was originally intended, namely more flexible, empathic and sustainable over time. The understanding of what is happening to those involved must be increased. Today, the different parts – health care on the one hand and Försäkringskassan on the other – are slipping apart. Without common approaches, individual people are being squeezed, while time-consuming administration is required with unnecessary costs as an ever-widening gap arises between the two bodies. They are very important for people's health and prosperity to increase and for people to return to work and employers to be able to regain their staff. The systems and their employees – on both sides – must regain confidence in and trust in each other. If the Swedish Tax Agency succeeds in being one of Sweden's most popular authorities, we must politically ensure that confidence in those who get the bottom note returns in ordinary people. That should be our next big task. Madam President, I would like In recent years, the right to personal assistance has been severely attacked. The media have been filled with stories about how children and adults with great needs through new decisions from Försäkringskassan have been deprived of their assistance. In five years, the number of people with personal assistance within LSS has decreased by approximately 1,650, with a government saving of approximately 3.3 billion. About 18 per cent of those who have applied for sickness and activity benefits have been denied it. Persons who have received sickness benefit have decreased by 4 per cent between 2016 and 2018 – not because they have become healthy but because they have been denied compensation or have been insured. This is a disastrous development which urgently needs a political solution. However, in the shadow of the question of who should be entitled to personal assistance, there is another issue that has a major impact on the ability of people with disabilities to have their needs met. It is about the erosion of the compensation given to the aid beneficiary to be able to hire personal assistants himself or to buy the service from an assistance provider. This is called flat-rate compensation. The issue is important and needs to be resolved urgently. Each assistance hour granted is replaced by a cash amount determined as a result of the government. At present, it is $29.80 (U.S.) an hour. It shall be sufficient for the assistant's salary, social security contributions, insurance, pension, recruitment, introduction, training, work environment, administration, overheads and more. This is the compensation paid. Point. Assistance providers' margins are now down to critical levels in order to be able to carry out their activities at all. Not only is the compensation of just under SEK 300 per hour low compared to other comparable services, it has also been depleted every year since 2014 by a very low number. That has been the case regardless of government. In relation to increased costs of wages and other things, this has not been the case. Future budgetary work must focus on and remedy as soon as possible. It may soon be too late, as it is the serious entrepreneurs and the serious operators and organisers who die first. This drives an unseriosity in the industry that is very dangerous. In addition, freedom of choice for the individual disappears. Madam President, I would like Let me point out a few other points. Persons with disabilities who need extended schooling and are students should have the opportunity to study part-time with part-time activity compensation. A series of studies and reports show that those who have received activity compensation for extended schooling then leave the activity compensation. Those who become dependent on the social security system at an early stage of life, Madam President, for their livelihoods, have lower economic standards from a life perspective and are at a much greater risk of financial vulnerability than their peers. This is set out in a series of reports, and the development is not good. The possibility of combining sickness benefit and sickness and activity benefit with work, with or without pay subsidy, must be increased. Our vision is that the level of remuneration should in principle be able to vary steplessly. It should be possible to work more certain periods and less others, according to what you can do. Even those with extensive disabilities have the right to individually adapted activities for development. A re-evaluation of work capacity should be able to be individualised so that it does not create a terrible worry for those who will so obviously need continued support. Activity and community should always be given priority over passivity and exclusion, also for those who are far from the regular labour market. We Liberals see the very vulnerable economic situation of some people with disabilities, especially those with intellectuals. We intend to do everything we can to correct this. This is an emergency, and it is not worthy of our welfare society.
i-60fa296f155a828a-322	Madam President, I would like Health insurance is a very important part of our common security system. You should be able to afford to be ill and to rest if you cannot work because of your illness or if the work risks aggravating the disease. The insurance system also includes rehabilitation back to work and back to a healthier life. It is important that this system works as optimally as possible so that those entitled to compensation receive compensation. Health insurance should be reliable. You should be able to feel safe about that. The health insurance system is large and complex, and it handles large amounts of money and many people. In large parts the system works well and as intended. If you become ill and report your illness, you will receive compensation for your lost income – from your employer and after some time from Försäkringskassan. If you are long-term ill and need help with rehabilitation, you will receive help and will gradually return. That's how it's supposed to work, and that's how it works in most cases. Yet we hear every day that people are being squeezed, that sick people are not being compensated, that the medical certificate is not worth anything, that people fall between the chairs, in this case between health insurance and unemployment insurance. Although this is not a large proportion of all cases, it is still a large number of people. And we won't have it. The government therefore has ongoing work to address shortcomings. There is a new management at the responsible authority, we have adjusted the directives to the authority and an investigation is under way to make proposals in a month or so. The Green Party is in favour of this and is hopeful of a safer health insurance. But, Madam President, the policy on which the Green Party was elected, the policy we are pursuing, is in fact a much greater change in the system. This is something that we want to implement in the long term and which takes a long time. In the meantime, we need to review the system that exists today. The Green Party's vision is what we call job security. It is a fundamentally new social security system. It should be a transparent, understandable and modern system aimed at closing the holes and gaps that we see today. It should be a system where it is easy to know what applies, what compensation we are entitled to if something happens – a system where we can feel safe in working life. The system that exists today has its advantages, but it is a patchwork. The system has been created through several reforms with the addition of several governments, including several authorities that need to interact. The system balls sick and unemployed between different authorities. It is a system that, unfortunately, by many is perceived to be full of chairs to fall between. Rehabilitation is good when it works, but it gets stiff and dysfunctional when it doesn't work. We meet people and we read in newspapers and on social media stories from people's everyday lives. It's sick people who don't get help. They have been diagnosed by the doctor but the authority makes a different assessment. It is often about the ability to work, especially at day 180. And it's often about mental illness. The Green Party has seen this for a long time. We need a secure labour market and a safe working life. We need security in health insurance, that is, a system that is understandable. It is not only about those who have applied for sickness benefit and have been refused, but also about all those who do not seek because the system is complicated and difficult. But if we were to combine sickness and unemployment insurance, create a common authority, introduce a common and equal level of remuneration, adjust the way in which the earnings base is calculated, allow the system to be tax-financed, change the way in which the authorities have been working today, and instead work on the basis of a holistic approach and an individual focus, then we have the basis for the system that the Green Party calls job security. We need to review the social security system, and then we need to look at the proposals. We would also have to look at what basic income or citizens' wages could do to remedy the problems that exist today. Madam President, I would like In anticipation of new systems, there is, as I said, a great deal to be done in today's social security system. Much has been done by the government. Here I would like to mention, in particular, that during the last parliamentary term we removed the distant parentheses. We have raised both ceilings and floors in insurance levels, and we have improved the possibility for students to be on part-time sick leave and removed the obstacle for students without student funds to keep their SGI so that they do not end up completely outside the system in the event of a possible disease. The government has also recently set up an investigation to review student health at the various universities, so that there will be equivalence across the country. We will now continue to strengthen the quality of the sick leave process. The increased mental illness is difficult to assess for all parties: doctors, employers, Försäkringskassan and the patient themselves. The system is complicated and needs to be explained better. Today, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is perceived as an authority that tests and controls, but it could be an authority to hold hands, which can follow and facilitate rehabilitation, which has a supportive role and better explains and guides further on, for example, a refusal. We would also need a softer and more flexible rehabilitation chain. The examination of the entire labour market after 180 days needs to be reviewed. It is not reasonable to be expected to look for entirely fictitious jobs. The definition of normal work needs to be changed. The 180-day limit is sharp. That's where a lot of people fall outside the system. It could be replaced by continuous reconciliation points, which gradually explore the possibility of changing jobs into something you can actually manage even though you have a diagnosis. In this way, you can get into the labour market faster and get better faster. Part-time sickness is also a way to get back. Today you can only get part-time sick leave in fixed steps of 25%. You also have to work as much every day. It's getting stiff. What is asked of both the sick and their employers is flexibility. If we remove the 25-percent fixed ladders – both Hans Eklind and Solveig Zander have dealt with this issue earlier today – and also allow the possibility to unwind whole days of work and whole days of rest would in many cases facilitate rehabilitation. These are some of the proposals put forward by the Green Party for better health insurance in the system we have today. Then there are some groups that have had a particularly difficult time for a long time. I mentioned former students, and there is still a lot to do. Cultural workers are another group that uses social security to a much lesser extent than others. A third group is people with disabilities. We talked about them earlier today. Among other things, a more personalised focus is needed to see the opportunities and potential of these people. Madam President, I would like After all, the important measures fall outside the report we are discussing today and this area of expenditure in the budget. Basically, we need to turn into a policy for long-term sustainable life. Probably we need to work less, allow ourselves to take breaks in working life, recover and rest. A policy that sees man and the individual, where confidence in society, the joy of life and public health are increasing, is crucial. With those words, I would like to express my thanks and support for the proposal contained in the report.
i-60fa296f155a828a-341	Madam President, I would like In the past, politicians and experts from all over the world travelled to Sweden to study the Swedish model. Today they are travelling here to study a failed migration and integration policy. In Sweden today, over 50 000 people are illegal, i.e. they are here for various reasons but in an illegal way. This means that there is illegal labour. People have come to Sweden and received a rejection of their asylum application, they have been tried, but still they are still in Sweden. What does this mean in the long run? This means that citizens, that is, Swedish citizens, are losing faith in the asylum system that exists today. It is an asylum system based on the idea that every person has the right to have his or her asylum reasons examined. It must be done properly and legally. But if you've got your case tried, there are two outcomes. If you get a yes, you're welcome. Then you should integrate into society and do your duty. If you've got a rejection, you've got to go back. That is the basis for a functioning regulated immigration. What we are seeing today, however, is a government that has gone completely in a different direction over a five-year period. The Social Democrats say that they want a tight migration policy, that they take responsibility for Sweden and have control of Sweden's borders and that the return process works very well. If you meet the border police and the Migration Agency or visit the detention centre, you get a completely different reality description. If you meet the border police, you're told they're understaffed. They do not have 100% control over our airports, ports and bridges. If you meet the Migration Board, you're told that the balances are increasing. Yes, the pressure on Sweden has decreased from 163 000 to 23 000 asylum applications. But afterwork has not diminished. It is not the case that once someone has their asylum application examined, it is clear. You have the opportunity to appeal. There are cases to be submitted to the Migration Court, which dates from 2015. So it has been four years, and we are almost five years away. What the government has done is that it has reduced the appropriations for the migration courts. They're on their knees. This is not just a matter of asylum. Let us not forget those to whom we have said yes. There are citizenship matters, ancillary matters and family immigration. Last summer, a narrow majority in the Swedish Parliament voted for a more generous family immigration on the grounds that it will facilitate integration. It's a little old cabinet food. We have had a very generous family immigration in Sweden in the 90s and in the early 2000s. How'd it go? What we are seeing today is first generation Swedes – I am not going to call them second generation immigrants – or second generation Swedes. They are increasingly leaving school with incomplete grades compared to their Swedish classmates who have at least one or two Swedish parents, i.e. those who have Swedish as their mother tongue. We have schools in areas where every other student goes out with incomplete grades and where they do not have Swedish as their native language. They can grow up in families where they have parents who have hardly any educational background. It is believed that a child growing up in a home where one or both parents cannot support themselves would facilitate integration, Madam President. Well, let us get out of this Chamber and into reality and see the result of a failed migration and integration policy. What Sweden needs now is a breathing room. We need to put a ceiling, a volume target, in migration policy. The Moderates want asylum cases to be examined outside the EU's external border, where we have a distribution mechanism within the European Union. Every person shall have his/her asylum application examined. But just because you are seeking asylum, you do not have the right to asylum. We have to be hard on that, too. Otherwise, we'll have the right to asylum. If someone receives a yes, the general rule is to be a temporary residence permit. In order to obtain a permanent residence permit, you can connect to supply requirements and language requirements. In addition, we want to extend the time to become a Swedish citizen from five years to seven years. There we link once again to language requirements and supply requirements. We do not say no to family immigration. If you bring your relatives here, you should also be able to support them. You have a duty to support your loved ones. Sweden provides refuge for those in need of protection. Once you are protected, however, you also have a duty to support yourself as best you can. Madam President, I would like All in all: Sweden's municipalities, regions, schools and health centres and all the functions of our welfare system need a breathing room right now. What this House has done is that it has taken hasty decisions, about more generous family immigration and about the High School Act, which is an accident. It is an accident because it gives the people who are most vulnerable in our society false hopes that they will be allowed to stay if they just wait a little longer. You take no responsibility, and you send them right to the knees of the municipalities. There is a lack of housing, and we have a shortage of teachers. There is an idea in this house that every teacher who works at any school has as a profession and expertise to be able to teach young people who may have a year's educational background to make up for 12 years of schooling in less than a year. Madam President, I would like There will be no more tweets and fine speeches in this Chamber. We are elected, and we have a responsibility. If we want first generation and second generation Swedes, that is, young people and children who go to our schools and grow up in our suburbs, to have a dignified integration, we must tighten up and limit immigration for the foreseeable future, because we have a debt to them.
i-60fa296f155a828a-357	Madam President, I would like In the alliance government, we were in complete agreement in the face of the current recession that labour immigration was absolutely necessary to meet the challenges ahead. Now we are again entering tougher economic times. The Center Party is absolutely convinced that labour migration is still crucial. Last year alone, labour migration contributed 34 billion to increased production revenue and 12 billion to increased tax revenues that can go to schools, health care and long-term care throughout the country. 90 per cent of labour migration was in shortage occupations. Labour immigration is crucial for Swedish competitiveness and for Swedish companies. Here we and the Moderates have long been in agreement. Five weeks ago Ulf Kristersson opened up to tighten labour migration. Since then, many companies have been in touch and worried. My question is: how do the Moderates want to tighten up labour immigration?
i-60fa296f155a828a-360	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonny Cato, for the question! The attitude of the Moderates is: We are in favour of labour migration, but it should be done in the right way. We must also combat illegal labour immigration. What we see is how to use track changes in asylum matters. Once the case has been examined up to the highest level, enforcement obstacles, such as a change of track, can be invoked. That's what we want to look at. As you know, the Moderates are more liberal than the Center Party has ever been and will be. But we're doing it the right way. You're supposed to follow the laws and rules that we've set up. We are in favour of labour immigration, but it should be done in the right way.
i-60fa296f155a828a-363	Madam President, I would like On the question of the change of tracks, we differ. I am absolutely convinced that the 700 who have only been employed this year by means of a change of track are extremely important for the companies they work with. We fully agree that fraud and organised crime do not belong in any part of society, nor in the case of labour immigration. However, there is an excuse when you want to remove, for example, the right to work part-time to curb organised crime. You have said that you want to eliminate cheating and organised crime, but you have not said how. I am concerned that your proposals will not protect labour immigration. How do you want to curb the crimes, and how do you want to get to the cheating? It's absolutely crucial.
i-60fa296f155a828a-366	Madam President, I would like As Jonny Cato knows, we're in the middle of a migration investigation, and Jonny Cato is in that investigation. All parties go in with their entrances. It's going to land somewhere in August next year. What we have said is that we are prepared to look at this. We see the problem of using the very idea of a change of track. The idea of a track change was to simplify the integration process. What we are seeing now is that some are using it to use it as an enforcement barrier. Initially, asylum was sought, but there was no reason for asylum. Then you use a change of track as a reason. That's a problem. We must distinguish asylum immigration from labour immigration, and that is what we Moderates want to do.
i-60fa296f155a828a-368	Madam President, I would like The Moderates have made many political upheavals in recent years. These have concerned infrastructure, energy policy, labour migration, justice policy, public services, alcohol issues and more. This is not a complete list but a number of examples. Some reversals can be quite all right. When reality changes, you want to develop your policy. Sometimes it can go a little fast. Recently, the Moderates have made a major shift that is more to be regarded as a serious breach of promise and which has received a great deal of attention. It's about the Holocaust survivor, Hédi Fried. Prior to the election, party leader Ulf Kristersson visited her at her home with a group of journalists and promised her that she would never cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, I would like My question to the Moderates is: What does Arin Karapet have to say to Hédi Fried on this issue?
i-60fa296f155a828a-371	Madam President, I would like I think it is tasteless and shameless to use the Holocaust in a discussion of how some parties in this House sit down to discuss substance politics. I can inform Rasmus Ling that I myself am the descendant of survivors of the first genocide in the 20th century, that is, the Armenian genocide. The current government promised in 2014 that it would recognise the Armenian genocide, seyfo. That has not been achieved. But the fact that the Moderates sit down with the Swedish Democrats to discuss gang crime, migration policy and nuclear policy is clearly scandalous. I think that Rasmus Ling should go back to school, read his story and learn what has happened in Europe. It's not just the Holocaust. And by using the Holocaust as a bat, you reduce what happened in the '40s. Madam President, I would like Before answering Rasmus Ling's question and before you can even raise this as an argument in this House about what the Moderates want, I think the government should acknowledge the Armenian genocide, seyfo.
i-60fa296f155a828a-375	I would like to remind the speakers that this debate is about migration and nothing else.
i-60fa296f155a828a-376	Madam President, I would like I think it is a startling response – in fact a total non-responsive response. It is clear that there are many other relevant issues to raise relating to the history of Europe, but not being able to answer the question of the clear promise made in this incredibly central issue of Swedish politics, I find remarkable, Madam President. We will continue to review the Moderate positions. For our part, we have a message that is solid now and will remain firm in the future: we will not cooperate with the Swedish Democrats on migration policy. I regret that the Moderates have chosen to break their promise.
i-60fa296f155a828a-378	Madam President, I would like It can be seen from Rasmus Ling's answer that you want to shift the focus from what this debate is about. The Moderates are entering the Migration Investigation as a party. We are in favour of setting a volume target and making demands on family immigration. If there are more parties in favour of this policy, we will sit down with them and talk and form a majority in this House on this issue. If Rasmus Ling is so concerned about which parties sit with which parties, I think he should bear in mind that his party is sitting with the Left Party. The Left Party has supported Communism, which has caused 100 million victims. I think you should do your homework before you use bats against your opponents. I was expecting an honest line change. It was dishonest, but thank you for me.
i-60fa296f155a828a-380	Madam President, I would like In an interview in Svenska Dagbladet's podcast The editorial board answers Timbro's CEO on whether the debate on immigration has made it easier to talk about shrinking welfare. Then she answers: Yes, it is a group that is easier to go after. I think about this when I hear Arin Karapet. As a rather bad magician, he now tries to divert attention by pointing with one hand at those who have just arrived while, as usual, he and the Moderates continue to fill the pockets of the richest in our society. The trick is completely dependent on the Swedish Democrats as a unit. That is why, Madam President, we are now seeing the ties between the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats getting stronger and stronger. They need each other. The same moderates that removed SFI from day one now come with demands for language testing and punishment for people who do not learn Swedish. The same Moderates who have allowed companies to suck billions of profits out of an increasingly segregated school are now complaining of increasing crime and exclusion among young people. The same moderates who have reduced the tax burden on the richest and drained our common assets pretend that the deficits are the fault of refugee reception. It is exactly the same in this debate. The Moderates blame others for the inequality they themselves have created. Sweden needs a breathing space from Moderate inequality, Madam President.
i-60fa296f155a828a-384	Madam President, I would like This shift does not concern Category 8. I will therefore be very brief. It is not my party that has released a prime minister who wants to remove the defense tax. It is Christina Höj Larsen's party that has released Stefan Löfven in this Chamber.
i-60fa296f155a828a-385	Madam President, I would like It is funny that Mr Arin mentions this. In 2014, the Moderates, together with the Alliance Colleagues, launched a Social Democratic and Environmental Party government in exactly the same way. Does that mean that you supported the budget and the very important welfare reforms carried out by the Left Party? I'm starting from that in this case. But back to the question! This is, in fact, a question of refugee policy. It is about the consistent blame of the Moderates for others for an inequality and a class society they themselves have been involved in creating. My message is clear. We see what you're doing-- one hand goes down in the pocket, the other points to those who just arrived. The clearest example is that one has now gone as far as breaking a promise to an Holocaust survivor. That says it all, Madam President.
i-60fa296f155a828a-387	Madam President, I would like The Left is the party that is best at being and playing upset in this House. The truth is that they are the ones who advocate an irresponsible migration policy. You basically promise a covert amnesty. The Moderates are a party that wants order. But again, Christina Raise Larsen: You can't blame me for Stefan Löfven wanting to remove the defense tax for the most wealthy. It is your party that has released Stefan Löfven. Then you'll have to take responsibility for it. I cannot bear that responsibility because I voted against Stefan Löfven.
i-60fa296f155a828a-389	Madam President, I would like I will try to take the debate back to the budgetary area in question, but first I would like to mention a few brief points. Firstly, it is another thing to support a prime minister when there is a ready-made programme that will go through. Secondly, it is interesting that the Green Party is afraid to cooperate with us on migration policy. We have quite clearly promised not to do such a thing. We did so in 2014, and we have maintained it ever since. The Green Party is not a party that needs to worry that we will want to cooperate with them on migration policy. To the budget area! I would like to begin by calling for the reservation in this report to be approved. Those who are following every budget debate in this House – I hope there are a few – will certainly note that there is something unusual that there are reservations about spending areas. But this is something that we in the Swedish Democrats have used quite consistently since we entered the Riksdag just when it is of particular importance and it is still within the framework. Migration policy, if any, is one of those areas where it is of particular importance and particularly serious to prioritise differently from what the committee proposes. But I have full respect for the fact that politics and the budget are often seen as a whole. It is precisely because we too see politics and the budget as a whole that we choose to try to make changes. One of the most important changes we are proposing in our reservation is to actually give the migration courts the budget they are asking for. Regardless of where you stand in the context of migration policy balances – I will come back to that in a moment – most in this House should agree that the system we have, with the rules we have and the decisions to be taken, should be made as effective, smooth and correct as possible. Last year, we committed more funds to the Migration Agency. That was where the heavy burden, the long balances, was put on and needed more resources to work effectively away from what was left and left behind. Now, as we heard in the previous speech, it is the migration courts that have been given the great burden. After the first decision by the Finnish Immigration Service, appeals are pending. The Migration Courts have made a clear explanation of what they need for funds. But it doesn't follow the government. We are not giving the means that the immigration courts want. It is not just the courts themselves who say they want more money. The Migration Board has also been clear, both in forecasts and in presentations to us in committee, that it is concerned that the courts do not get the funds they need and that this will ultimately burden much more than it saves in the short term because people who are still waiting for final decisions remain in our system and continue to live here at our expense. Thus, it is a complete hole in your head that does not provide the resources needed. I sincerely hope that reason will come to light in the run-up to future amending budgets. In our reservation and in our politics in general there are a couple of things I want to push a little extra on. We invest in more detention sites and have done so for a while. Work has already been done – there are more detention places already today. However, I note that the budget proposed by the government and subsequently the committee do not provide the Migration Agency with sufficient resources to further strengthen. Something has been done to keep the number of places at the same level as now, but the Migration Board has also presented forecasts of what they would need to expand in the short term. We're firing resources for this. We also invest a lot in outbounds for rejected and expelled. We are making an extra contribution there because we believe that if we had implemented the policies that we advocate, we would also have speeded up the exodus considerably faster, both those that take place forcefully and those that take place voluntarily by people withdrawing their application because they know that the rules that exist in Sweden are those that apply and that the decisions will follow the rules that exist. Perhaps the largest single investment we are making here is a specific and targeted investment in return migration that takes place with aid funds. Sweden already has a grant that can be applied for for re-migration. It is a modest contribution; it is between 30 000 and 75 000 per family, depending on how many people travel and what age they have. This is something you get directly in your hand when you leave Sweden on your own after a rejection. It is not quite as long-term and perhaps not as effective as it could have been. In fact, the money that we are spending can be seen as a grant for a pilot project to greatly develop the entire migration system. It is about enabling more people who receive or are expected to receive rejection or who simply feel that this was probably not the right country and want to withdraw their application themselves to return home with support for perhaps a little longer, better network of contacts on the spot and start-up efforts. But it is also a question of enabling more people to feel safe and secure to return home. I have spoken in this House before that, in contacts with, for example, Somalis who have lived here for a long time, we have been told that they are grateful for what they have here but also long to go home. They feel that they would have been happy to return if there was only the opportunity for the children to continue a sensible schooling and they were confident that life could continue in a good way. This type of aid effort is part of this pilot project. I assume that these efforts would need to be further developed in the future, but it is, as I said, efforts that enable more people to live where they want to live and for more countries on our earth to actually be worthy, active and fruitful places to live. Madam President, I would like Anyone who looks at our figures will note that we are also making major cuts. Of course we do, otherwise we could not have a reservation and redistribute funds. It is about us calculating that you will be able to see the impact on how many of our systems remain and what different things cost to invest in. It is about everything from the fact that a little older unaccompanied minors may not need on-call staff around the clock in the same way that younger children make more people leave the country and fewer people come here. We have an investigation in place, a migration committee, to review a long-term sustainable migration policy. Had the Swedish Democrats been in power, such a committee would certainly have been appointed, but as soon as possible we would also have reduced the rules that already exist to minimum levels to give the investigation peace and quiet to work in real life. We had quickly gone through all the international conventions and agreements that we are bound by and looked for: how can we make the interpretations? Have we done the strictest possible interpretation? How have other countries acted? We had rather quickly come to the conclusion that there is more to be done if you are serious about what you say about being at minimum levels. We had intervened there at first in order to be able to properly develop policies that are sustainable in the long term. This is what Sweden needs, not continued patching and repairing, quick investigations – whatever you say, there is a lot that will come into place by next summer – or continued uncertainty and ambiguity or legislation that gives the opportunity to stay even though you have been rejected. Sweden needs another government and a completely different migration policy.
i-60fa296f155a828a-409	Madam President, I would like In the Left Party Budget Movement A plan for equality and green transition, we take a holistic approach to the growing gaps. We want Sweden to become the world's most equal country. Over the past few decades, social inequalities have increased and the tax system's redistribution has deteriorated significantly. Relative poverty has doubled in less than ten years. At the same time, the economic elite have improved in Sweden. At this point, the government is presenting a budget that primarily benefits rich men, at the expense of welfare. The necessary efforts on welfare are lacking despite the fact that around Sweden there are alarm reports of major cuts in schools, child psychiatry, elderly care and health care. We see it every day in the country's municipalities. The Left Party wants to invest in general welfare, investments that are central to a more equal society. Instead, the government's budget widens the gaps in society and leads to under-funding of welfare in a situation where the needs are, to be honest, great. We in the Left Party know that by investing in society and each other we can build a stronger, safer and more inclusive Sweden. This is the realistic and solidarity-based way of defending and developing the welfare model that has such broad support in Sweden. The struggle against racist forces to develop well-being in a more open Sweden where we are more closely interwoven with the struggle for a dignified reception of refugees in harmony with contemporary needs. It is the intention of the Left Party to take responsibility for this solidarity-based realism. For the Left Party, robust and solidarity-based welfare is the key to successful integration. This integration includes all of us, not just recently arrived. Through tax-funded welfare and security systems, we are all given the opportunity to develop from isolated satellites to part of community and community-building. It is about solidarity between generations to finance education and pensions, between the healthy and the sick, between the working and the unemployed and between those who live in abundance and those who live on the margins – all to build a safe and equal society with health care, culture, infrastructure and housing. We assume, Madam President, that everyone in society wants to contribute by working and that the state has a responsibility to make it possible. It is on this basis that we have drawn up our draft budget in the area of expenditure M igration, which we are debating here today. Our proposals in this area focus mainly on two things: to shorten processing times in order to create a better asylum process and better integration, and at long last to allow the lonecomers who have been so ill to finally have a secure future in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The unaccompanied people we are now talking about came to Sweden as children. They sought refuge here from war and oppression. Most came before the migration policy turned, before right-wing politicians and bourgeois leadership sides began shouting about system collapses and before the Riksdag decided to introduce the strictest asylum legislation possible. When the austeritys were presented, the Prime Minister promised that the children would be excluded. But that promise was broken. The Finnish Immigration Service changed its practice with the result that the 18th anniversary meant expulsion for those who have been granted a residence permit on grounds of enforcement barriers. So those who could not be expelled because they were children would have to wait until they turned 18 and then have to leave the country. There was a ruling from the Migration Court of Appeal that stated that a large part of the group under 18 would actually be assessed as an alternative need for protection and get a residence permit. However, the long processing times allowed many to reach 18 before the asylum decision was taken. The sole beneficiaries were also given priority in the Migration Agency's case management. Thousands of unaccompanied minors had their age recorded through legal uncertainty of age assessments using methods that have been challenged from a great many quarters. We're still waiting for the promised investigation. The High School Act would give them a new opportunity. But the law was so poorly constructed that much of the uncertainty and concern that the group suffered persists. The Left Party saw the shortcomings and tried to remedy some of them. Ideally, we had seen another solution already then. So basic things like which courses to count are still unclear. The government was not interested at the time, and now many unaccompanied people live with the consequences. In the debate, they are called adult men without asylum reasons. The truth is, Madam President, that it is about children and young people who sought and needed protection in Sweden. They have been treated terribly badly as a result of political decisions, and they have grown up in the meantime. Madam President, I have spoken many times in this House about the difficult situation in which many unaccompanied minors find themselves. I have raised the self-harm, suicide, homelessness and a despair that leads on to a life of homeless people on the streets of Paris to get a second chance. I have also talked about the power and commitment of all those around the unaccompanied ones, who support them every day in school, in housing and, if homelessness has affected them, in finding a bed to sleep in, food for the day or support. I have also stressed the will and abilities that many of the young people actually show – how, despite all the challenges, they struggle with the school, work extra at the retirement home and are an inalienable part of their new Swedish families. In the long run, Madam President, after their education, they are an important part of the generational change that must now take place as the population ages rapidly and, not least, welfare is facing a huge shortage of labour. Young people are in many ways part of Sweden and Sweden part of them. It is therefore high time to realise that their situation needs to be normalised and to replace the patchwork of insecurity they have encountered with long-term and security. That is why the Left Party has budgeted for permanent residence permits for these young people. Our initiative involves around 11 000 people, both those who have been granted temporary residence permits under the new secondary school law and those who have not succeeded in doing so. Based on estimates from the Parliamentary Investigation Service, we estimate that such normalisation would cost 800 million. This would lead in the short term to savings by the Migration Board and the courts and to costs being moved to establishment instead. Sweden has already invested in these children and young people, and a secure future means that in the longer term they will be part of the construction of society. We have chosen to call this amnesty. But for me, you can call it anything. In fact, it is rather a recognition that we in this House are responsible for when people get caught, not least when it comes to children and young people. Madam President, I would like Years of uncertain waiting break people down. When the possibilities for Swedish education and work during this long period are usually extremely limited, the waiting time is also untapped. The Left Party wants to increase the funding for the Migration Agency and the Migration Courts and for legal assistants in court. In this way, we reduce processing times, which is beneficial for those seeking asylum, for society and for the economy. A long waiting period for asylum decisions is very stressful and bad for mental health. This makes it difficult for a person who receives a residence permit and the conditions for the effective return of a person who is refused a residence permit to be established in society. According to a study from Delmi from 2018, shortened processing times are among the most important things we can do to improve the asylum process and asylum seekers' health. In the long term, our proposals also mean significant savings on housing costs for asylum seekers. Finally, Madam President, we are abstaining in today's vote because we see our budget as a whole. We refer to the special opinion of the Left Party.
i-60fa296f155a828a-432	I would like to remind you that the President and our group leaders agree that speaking time should be limited to a maximum of eight minutes.
i-60fa296f155a828a-433	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats' proposals on this area of expenditure, migration, are detailed in our party motion. We also have a special opinion in this section. Migration policy must take into account our ability to integrate. When this does not happen, we get overcrowded suburbs, parallel communities, exclusions and settlements with thousands of people. We need to see the link between immigration in excessive volumes and the very serious social problems with which we are struggling. In Sweden there are residential areas where there is actually an alternative legal order – where religious police harass people who deviate from what is considered to be a right. This takes place despite the fact that all of us who are in Sweden have an obligation to comply with Swedish laws. The explanation lies in the fact that standards and customs do not change because you cross a national border, but through meetings and by living with, not next to, the majority population. How, then, can we create a community where integration is not to live in the same country but to live in the same society? Let it be crystal clear – a tight migration policy has no intrinsic value in itself, but is a prerequisite if we are to cope with the problems and challenges ahead of us when it comes to integrating people that we have actually received. The difference between immigration and integration is that in the former one enters a country, but in the latter one enters society. Unfortunately, the debate has been too much about immigration and too little about integration. Sweden needs a Christian Democratic integration policy, where there are both rights and obligations. It is based on good values and aims at community for all people. The reason we want to see a tight migration policy for a long time to come is because we believe that it will take many years to overcome the integration debt that we have built up. In working on this migration policy, we can and will look at each individual legislation and also at the design of the social security system. Some of the issues that we Christian Democrats have highlighted are: we should have temporary residence permits, not permanent ones. We want the asylum process to have a clear start and a clear end. Therefore, we think that the possibility of a track change should be removed. It does not work in the way the intention was, and the Migration Agency reports that the regulations are being misused. We need to find more detention sites. We have directed funds towards this in our budget. As we see that it will take time, we propose electronic monitoring as an alternative to detention when there are no places. We have been exercising on the establishment of a safe-countries list. Here I know that an investigation is in its final stages. Such a list should be drawn up after a decision by the EU Court of Justice in July 2018 to enable us in Sweden to reject a person with immediate effect when an asylum application is unfounded. We want to see livelihood requirements for everyone, except for children under the age of 18. In short, we Christian Democrats want to see a reduced search pressure to Sweden. In principle, all parties in this House agree that migration policy needs to be coordinated within the EU. It is based on the free internal movement of the EU and on a common external border. We Christian Democrats would also like us to look at the Nordic neighbours for the reason that they are countries that remind us of our own country. Welfare is general, democratic institutions are strong and the rule of law is high. The level of corruption is comparatively low in these countries, and trust between people and public institutions is strong. But despite the similarities between the Nordic countries, Sweden stands out in a comparison regarding migration policy and the number of asylum seekers. During the five years 2014 – 2018, more than 320 000 people applied for asylum here in Sweden. During the same period, more than 150 000 people applied for asylum in Norway, Finland, Denmark and Iceland combined. This means that more than two thirds of all asylum applications made in the Nordic countries are filed here in Sweden, despite the fact that Sweden makes up just over a third of the Nordic countries in terms of population. Sweden, on the other hand, is the most populous country in the Nordic countries. It is therefore perfectly reasonable for Sweden to have a reception that is in fact higher than that of neighbouring countries. On the other hand, it is not reasonable that the Swedish reception per capita is more than three times higher than in all other Nordic countries. The Christian Democrats defend the right to seek asylum. We believe that Sweden can never or should back away from the responsibility of offering people who flee, under well-founded fear of their lives, a refuge from oppression. We also believe that those people who are deemed to have protection reasons and are offered protection here must be given reasonable opportunities, with livelihood requirements, to be reunited with their immediate family. Madam President, I would like If we get a tight migration policy, which is now being worked on in a committee where I have the opportunity to sit, both can, should and must be the focus of integration. We Christian Democrats had just over a month ago a congress, a national parliament, as we call it, and there we adopted an integration bill with 36 sharp proposals on integration. Those of us who had the privilege of being part of the group who worked up the bill had a word that guided us in our work, and that word was It's a word that binds people together. We're making the stranger a neighbor. The social community of Christian Democrats is based on one that applies to all people. As this is the last debate before Christmas and Christmas leave, I wish the President, my colleagues in the Social Security Committee and everyone else a truly blessed and Merry Christmas.
i-60fa296f155a828a-449	Madam President, I would like I have also noted that the Christian Democrats have turned on several issues in the area of migration, in most cases in a direction that I and the Green Party do not like. On one issue, however, I sincerely hope that the Christian Democrats will remain in the view they have had historically when they have worked for vulnerable people. What I am thinking of is whether the seriously ill, not least the elderly, should be able to stay for humanitarian reasons. We have previously seen and were upset by cases where demented elderly people have been expelled without having an orderly reception, i.e. no relatives or family that are present and able to receive. My question is this: will the Christian Democrats think that in the future we should have a humane protection base that can help in these painful cases when, for example, severely ill elderly people are at risk of being expelled without an orderly reception?
i-60fa296f155a828a-452	Madam President, I would like I must respect the fact that Rasmus Ling and the Green Party do not like the migration policy that we Christian Democrats advocate. It is designed to enable us to deal with the problems we have in Sweden. The position changes that we have made I like very hard, because they enable us to deal with integration, which I think is the most important thing if we are to have a country that lives according to the motto that I personally had on my election poster: We are going to live with, not next to, each other. I have somehow promised myself that I will try to analyse every single proposal put forward in this House, regardless of which party it comes from. If the proposal leads in that direction, we will certainly discuss it further. I think it's also a mature and adult way of reasoning. As far as the humanitarian protection base is concerned, Rasmus Ling and I are on a committee that has been tasked with investigating it. We both know that the proposal is not finished. We Christian Democrats, on the other hand, have said very clearly that we think we should investigate a new humanitarian protection base, because I am absolutely convinced that Sweden, like a number of other countries in Europe, needs a valve. Not all people fit into the template that you otherwise put them into. The people who fall between the chairs and do not fit into the template must be able to test according to the valve. We do not yet know what the humanitarian protection basis will be, but we Christian Democrats have been involved in calling for such a basis to be investigated.
i-60fa296f155a828a-456	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Eklind, for the answer and the information about the stickers on the election posters! It's nice. It is also something to live up to. I am pleased that the Christian Democrats have wanted this particular issue to be clarified. I hope that they will stick to their tradition, where in the past they have worked very well for not least the elderly and the sick. The Committee's desire to have the matter examined is an important and first step. I have hopes that we will move forward in this so that it also meets vulnerable groups, not least the seriously ill elderly and children.
i-60fa296f155a828a-458	Madam President, I would like Like I said, it's pretty obvious to me. If we now stand up for a right of asylum for people fleeing for their lives, there may also be other reasons. One may not fit in with the existing legal framework or wording. For us, it is important that we get the search pressure down to Sweden. That is why we do not use expressions as a volume target. For us, it is not quite consistent with the way we see that we need to protect the right of asylum. That's why we choose the expression search pressure instead. If we are to bring down the search pressure to Sweden, we must adapt to our surroundings. We need to review the existing regulations. But in this particular case, with regard to the humanitarian protection base that Rasmus Ling lifts up, this valve is in a number of other countries. Then I mean that it should be perfectly possible for us to bring down the search pressure and at the same time have a valve so that we pick up these.
i-69QHWdQfH8WiiH8WAJb7rx	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the committee's proposal in the Social Security Committee's report No 4, Expenditure Area 8 Migration, and rejection of the reservation. This means that I support the Government's proposal for funding for 2020 in the area of approximately SEK 11.4 billion. In recent years, the number of refugees and migrants in the world has been large, even record high. According to the UNHCR, the number of refugees in the world is over 70 million. The number of asylum seekers in Europe is also high, although the level has fallen in recent years. The distribution of asylum seekers among EU Member States is uneven. Sweden is one of the Member States that has taken, and is still taking, a major responsibility in relation to its population. Many of the years 2014 and 2015 have previously been referred to. In 2015, 163 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden – this is the largest number so far during the same year. In order to deal with this situation, the then government and four opposition parties reached an agreement in October 2015 on measures to ensure the ability of Swedish reception of asylum seekers and strengthen the establishment of new arrivals. We have heard previous speakers go back historically, but then they have stopped at 2015 and pretended that nothing happened since then. In November 2015, the Government presented further measures to limit the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden. The measures resulted in the Act on Temporary Restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit – the so-called Temporary Act – which entered into force on 20 July 2016 and would remain in force until 19 July 2019 at the latest. These decisions have had an effect. There are fewer asylum seekers – it is now at levels around 20 000 per year. In the Riksdag, we have subsequently decided that the duration of the temporary law will be extended until 19 July 2021, with, among other things, the adjustment that alternative protection needs are granted the right to family reunification under the same conditions as refugees, which I think is very good. There is something I have talked about several times here. That's why I think it was a good change. A number of motions indicate that the appropriations may be increased or reduced as a result of changes in the rules on residence permits, or that migration should be governed in other ways by major changes in the regulatory framework. We have heard about this in previous speeches. On 14 June this year, the government decided, among other things, to set up a parliamentary committee: the Committee on the Future of Swedish Migration Policy. We had a long meeting yesterday afternoon. We who sit on this committee were commissioned by the government to investigate precisely the future Swedish migration policy. The Committee shall take a position on policy formulation with a view to establishing a long-term sustainable regime. An investigation report must be submitted by 15 August next year, i.e. 2020. Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that the work of the investigation should be postponed before proposals for major changes to the regulatory framework are submitted. We can also note that the Finnish Immigration Service's statistics show that in recent years the number of applicants has not varied significantly and that the countries of origin of the applicants do not show much variation either. As several speakers have mentioned, it is important that the processing time is kept as short as possible, not only at the Migration Board but also at the Migration Courts. In 2018, the Finnish Immigration Service continued its work in examining a large number of asylum applications. The trend of a relatively stable number of new asylum seekers and a declining number of people enrolled in reception continued. The decommissioning of housing and the reduction of the workforce thus continued. At the same time, we would like to draw attention to the proposal that we decided on in Parliament a few weeks ago. It was about reforming the EBO Act or rather limiting the possibility for asylum seekers to arrange their own accommodation during the period of asylum. The Government believes that this will mean that more asylum seekers will live in the Migration Agency's accommodation instead of in their own arranged accommodation and that the costs of the housing stock will thus increase for the Migration Agency. The change in the direction of migration policy that has taken place in recent years has, of course, led to a great deal of redeployment within the Migration Authority. It has taken power from the organization and has also been challenging when it comes to the knowledge and competence of employees' administrators. Nevertheless, the number of open asylum cases continues to decline, and it is now the lowest since 2011. The number of open matters concerning residence permits for extensions, work and studies also continues to decrease. The trend of increasing processing times for connection cases has been broken. As a result, more effort has been made to develop the business. This means that the conditions for 2019 and 2020 have changed significantly. As far as detention is concerned, which several have highlighted in the debate, I agree that, in the face of the enforcement of expulsion decisions and return decisions, it is important that the asylum process has a clear conclusion for the proper functioning of the asylum system. A well-functioning return is a prerequisite for Sweden's asylum system to be sustainable in the long term. It is also an issue, I can reveal, which is being discussed in the M igration Committee. If a decision on expulsion can be enforced, this shall be done as soon as possible, and a tool for enforcement is the possibility of detention. Or it could be; it doesn't always have to be so. The Government is paying attention – and has paid attention – to the issue of detention in a regulatory letter to the Finnish Immigration Service. The number of detention centres has also been increased. And the government states in the budget bill that funds are being provided to maintain the current capacity. Madam President, I would like The problems we have in Sweden today can only be solved through a stronger society, where we take greater joint responsibility for our security and cohesion. We have restored order in public finances and also made several fundamental decisions in the area of migration. In this way, we have equipped Sweden for worse times. We have also equipped Sweden for better integration. In the good years we have built up a welfare reserve by paying off on the public debt. The government debt ratio is now at the lowest level since 1977. And 300,000 more go to work. This means that we have better conditions than we have in a very long time. Once again, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-60fa296f155a828a-477	Madam President, I would like I have two questions relating to funds here and which are also addressed in the committee's deliberations. One is about detention places. My very simple question is why they have chosen to lie down and approve the level that the government has laid down and which basically only maintains the number of detention places that exist now. There is, of course, a forecast that shows that you could provide quite little resources but still create more places. Today we have a situation where it is in principle 98 or 99 per cent of the population at all times and where the police basically immediately release people they find in the country, because they know that they still cannot take them into custody and execute decisions. I understand that much more is needed to build more sites, but there is therefore a concrete proposal to provide resources to operate more detention sites within existing stocks. I wonder how the majority leader in the committee has reasoned when it is considered reasonable not to increase those resources. That was question one. The second issue is closely related and concerns the migration courts, which I also mentioned in my speech. There too, there are clear forecasts from the Authority as to what it needs to be able to do something about the imbalances that exist today – and which are expected to increase. I have noted that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and all of us have provided the resources to provide the authority with the funds it requests and claims to need. The committee's report simply says that the possibility of handing over files has actually been extended, but that is not quite enough. We have also had draws in committee after that law was passed, and the Authority continued to press for this need. I wonder, then, how to discuss this issue.
i-60fa296f155a828a-481	Madam President, I would like I also lifted the detention points in my speech. Nevertheless, we and the government are clearly saying that these places must be maintained. There have also been more places during the time we have been in charge; the number of defensive positions has doubled. But, of course, it is also a question of expulsion and people leaving the country voluntarily, which I also talked about. It is therefore not just one thing, it is about working with many different tools at the same time and also having a collaboration between different authorities – both the Migration Agency and the Police Authority and other things. It is a shared responsibility when it comes to expulsion and expulsion. But of course we must follow the question, Madam President. As Paula Bieler says, it is also not possible to build as quickly as if you were looking at the 2020 envelope, but you will have to look at the possibilities to interact even more and make it even more effective. When it comes to judicial review, I can agree that this is a challenge. We have an increase compared to the previous budget, but of course I see and know about the proposals of the Swedish Democrats and others, which have made a greater allocation to the courts. This is therefore an issue that we must follow carefully to ensure that there are no longer long and extended processing times. That is a challenge; I can agree with that, Madam President.
i-60fa296f155a828a-484	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your answers, but I have to say that I find this a little difficult to understand. We get a lot of evidence from the authorities – we get forecasts, and we get requests – which are well-founded. As far as detention centres are concerned, as I said, we were talking about what we would need in order to be able to speed up operations rather quickly. Only with the operating needs would you get to even more places. It's good that the government finally changed its mind and provided the resources needed to at least maintain this – it didn't look like the original figures – but it could have done a little more. Then we would have been able to get even more places quickly and without having to build, according to the forecast made by the agency itself. The same applies to the courts. It is true that we should invest more in the migration courts now than in the previous budget, but we have a different situation. The Migration Agency has handled its cases, so there are more cases that are now at the Migration Courts. That's why it's more there now. These forecasts have existed for a long time, and they existed when the budget was being prepared. Why is it that the funds requested and needed by the authority are not provided?
i-60fa296f155a828a-487	Madam President, I would like The budget is, of course, a whole, and we can look at other grants where parties like the Swedish Democrats cut down on, for example, the Migration Agency's opportunities to work based on the situations that are now. I also raised housing costs and so on, which we know will increase with the decisions we made when it came to partially changing the EBO law. This is therefore a whole. We see it as having efforts in some areas but also major challenges, which we are prepared to follow. This applies, for example, to what Paula Bieler raises, i.e. detention and judicial review. We must follow it closely so that there are no further long processing times.
i-60fa296f155a828a-489	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. Two months ago, I was given the opportunity to become a migration policy spokesperson for the Center Party. I can see that migration policy is an extremely complex issue that really affects people, and opinions are spreading widely. It is a political area that is extremely sensitive, because it affects people. That is why political courage and responsibility are needed to dare compromise and agree on a long-term sustainable migration policy. One might ask: Why is a broad and long-term migration agreement so important? In 2015, Sweden received just under 163 000 asylum seekers, of whom just over 35 000 were unaccompanied children and young people. It was an unprecedented situation in modern Swedish history and created a strained situation in which responsible authorities, municipalities and voluntary forces were put under tremendous pressure. This press was handled very well on the basis of the conditions that existed, which we should be proud of and grateful for, but it became quite clear that Sweden was not prepared for such a large reception. The large number of asylum seekers in Sweden in 2015 put heavy pressure on the reception of asylum. At the same time, the number of asylum seekers has fallen sharply in recent years. We now need to find sustainable and long-term solutions to make reception more flexible and to be able to deal with both an increased and a reduced asylum seeker. The temporary laws of recent years can no longer be extended, and we need to get away from a hatful and short-term perspective on migration policy. A broad and long-term migration agreement is now required, as the Center Party has long sought. We are therefore pleased that, within the framework of the January agreement, we have now set up a parliamentary committee to look at the future migration policy. We in the Center Party are prepared to compromise seriously in order to achieve a broad migration agreement that will last for the long term. Of course we have clear entrances to the talks. We want to see a migration policy based on humanity and humanism combined with order. We want to take a holistic approach and make major structural changes. People are risking their lives in rubber boats on the Mediterranean and on trucks around Europe, and there are those who do not even get that far but die while hiking in the desert. We need to switch from unsafe to safe roads. But we also think that there is a need for increased ownership in, for example, the reception of those who come on unsafe roads and should be able to qualify into welfare. We also want to see greater legal certainty, the possibility of family reunification for children in particular and a new humanitarian protection base. Perhaps the most important thing, however, is that we want a broad agreement. We are prepared to take our responsibility for that to happen, and now we hope that others are too. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say a few words about the important immigration of labour, which has again begun to be discussed hotly in Swedish politics. Within the framework of the January agreement, we agree that the problem of skills deportation needs to be resolved, that a special visa for highly qualified people who want to seek a job or start a business should be introduced and that the current rules on labour immigration should be safeguarded. At the same time, there have been disturbing reports of fraud, exploitation of the systems and organised crime linked to labour migration. Cheating, exploitation of the systems and organised crime do not belong anywhere in society, nor in the case of labour immigration. The Centre Party therefore sees it as important that we overcome the problem so that the systems are not exploited and so that people do not get caught up in it. But that is what we are going to do at the same time as we are seriously protecting the current system of labour immigration. Proposals such as demands for full-time and higher pay do not address the problem or protect today's so important labour migration. Last year alone, labour migration contributed 34 billion to increased production revenue and 12 billion to increased tax revenues, which can go to school, health and social care throughout the country. 90 per cent of these jobs were in jobs where we have a shortage of labour in Sweden.
i-60fa296f155a828a-503	Madam President, I would like I was going to start just where Jonny Cato left off, namely by talking about labour migration. The first reply he made to a committee colleague earlier was about this, so I thought I should start there too. Just as Jonny Cato mentioned, the January agreement promised to do something about the skills demonstrations. This has been a long matter in committee, to say the least. This year is almost over. It was, in fact, said that the investigation was to be set up already this year, in order to overcome the skills deportations. At the same time, both the government and the committee's assessment refer to the fact that this is not an urgent problem. Judgments came almost on the day of two years ago, i.e. on lucia – many good lucia decisions have been taken in the area of migration over the years. This is considered sufficient at the moment. I have two questions. The first is: How does the Center Party work for this investigation? How soon can we expect it to be on our table? It is, after all, something that the Center Party has had as one of the reasons for supporting agreements on this issue and for pushing them forward. The second is: if it has been a little murmuring and has not really been able to get there, why does it not have a specific opinion, for example, saying that it supports this and that it is assumed that it will soon be in place under the January agreement? Or is what the government expresses and what the majority of committees, including the Center Party, thus expresses – that these judgments have basically solved the issue, so we don't have to rush into investigating it – also the Center Party's meaning?
i-60fa296f155a828a-509	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Paula Bieler, for the very relevant questions, I must say! I also feel good that I can clarify and explain when it comes to them. I still think this is a relevant problem, and we should get to it urgently. The reason why this has been delayed is the joint report presented by the authorities, which highlights a number of problems linked to labour migration. We also need to look at whether we may need to adjust something. I am the first to say that it is regrettable that this has not arrived yet. It'll be in place as soon as possible. I can also say that we are approaching New Year's Eve with very rapid steps, but this will happen in the next few weeks. That is at least the clear picture of the Center Party, and I hope the government will agree with it. Why don't you ask a certain minister who's in this room?
i-60fa296f155a828a-512	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I think there are a lot of questions to ask to the minister mentioned when it's his turn. When Jonny Catos predecessor Johanna Jönsson stood in this speaker's chair, I debated with her. I asked a number of questions about how much the Center Party is willing to accept that it is ruined on dates, that things are moved around and that you lump things together and thus push other things into the future to wait for it to become a whole. These questions remain. What happens if the investigation is not in place before New Year's? It is certainly very positive that we want to take the problems of excessive legislation in this area seriously; it has been lacking in the policy of the Center Party in the past. But where is the limit for the Center Party, and what if the investigation is not in place on New Year's Day?
i-60fa296f155a828a-516	Madam President, I would like We think it is important to curb crime, fraud and organised crime linked to labour migration, but we should do this so that we also protect the current system. Labour immigration is extremely important for Sweden, for Swedish competitiveness and not least for our companies. I can only regret that the Center Party seems to be one of the few parties in this House to see it. According to the January agreement, we are to return urgently with an investigation in this area, and we will do the same. I don't have an exact date, but it will happen as soon as possible.
i-60fa296f155a828a-518	Madam President, I would like We have heard today that the Left Party wants to grant amnesty to those who have been granted temporary residence permits under the Upper Secondary Education Act. My question to Jonny Cato is: do you say yes or no to an amnesty for those covered by the High School Act?
i-60fa296f155a828a-519	Madam President, I would like I hope the Moderates know that. But I think you should put this question in a slightly bigger perspective. The Center Party was faced with very difficult decisions when the issue of the High School Act was to be voted through in this House. We think that the secondary school law was poorly designed; we said that then, and we still say that. We had a choice: to give these people a second chance or not to do so. We chose to give these young people a second chance, despite the fact that the law – as was already noted at the time – had very serious shortcomings. The Center Party does not believe that an amnesty is the right way to go, but we think that other solutions need to be found in order to give these people – these young people – a good chance and a second chance. We can see that there are very large groups that put these young people at risk in a way that is extremely regrettable, but we do not think that an amnesty is the right way to go.
i-60fa296f155a828a-523	Madam President, I would like I didn't get a good answer; I got a classic politician response. The only thing I can say is that it is right now the Left Party that is most obvious – that they are in favour of an amnesty – on this issue. So if the law was so ill-designed, you voted through a law that was ill-designed and sent these young people out in uncertainty. My question to you is, how are you going to sort it out? Are you in favour of an amnesty, or are you closing the door for an amnesty? I did not ask for any other proposal or alternative, but the question is: are you for or against an amnesty?
i-60fa296f155a828a-525	Madam President, I would like I understand that the migration issue is rather black and white for Mr Arin. For me, however, it is not – many questions often have more than one answer. I think I have been quite clear: the Center Party does not see amnesty as a solution to this issue.
i-60fa296f155a828a-527	Madam President, I would like I think it is almost impossible to deal with the challenges we face in the area of migration without deepening European cooperation in this area. After all, the explanation for this is quite logical. We have the Schengen area, and we have a lot of EU law and directives and regulations in the area of migration policy that already bind countries together a lot. This means that there is not really a country in the European Union that can decide its own migration policy. There are no isolated islands like that. This means that the tragedies we have seen on the Mediterranean, with people drowning, and the huge waves of migrants, asylum seekers and refugees who have come to Europe in recent years and who are seeking along trodden paths – mainly north – are a matter of concern to all of us in Europe. This is a common challenge. I am very concerned about the xenophobia, hatred and intolerance that exist towards refugees and immigrants in many parts of Europe today. And I am very concerned about those countries that do not want to take any responsibility for these issues at all. Now we have a new Commission in Europe, and it can hopefully mean a fresh start. Our Swedish EU Commissioner Ylva Johansson will have to go round to the Member States during the spring to discuss and try to anchor a sustainable model of joint responsibility in Europe. It's going to be very difficult. It has, of course, come across patrols in recent years, and it will of course continue to do so. Ylva Johanson will be assisted by the Greek Commissioner, who also has some responsibility for migration issues. Madam President, I think it is very important from this point of view that Sweden has high ambitions for a dignified reception, but also for not letting go of something that is very important for us and for Europe, namely that we take greater joint responsibility. I think it is unfortunate if Swedish political parties step away from the position that even those countries that do not take responsibility in Europe should actually start to do so and take greater responsibility. Madam President, I would like Of course, these issues cannot be resolved only at European level. We are seeing the disintegration that is taking place in parts of the Middle East, the Arab world, the Horn of Africa and North Africa. Large groups of people head north across the African continent in search of a better life. This means that the EU must be able to build partnerships with countries outside Europe. But it must, I believe, be done in a more equal way. It is not possible to be arrogant on the part of Europe and seek agreements just so that we can deport people back. The countries of North Africa and other countries around them will not be very keen to enter into this type of partnership. Rather, I believe in a broader policy with a great deal of investment in development, infrastructure and so on to help the areas outside Europe in different ways so that they can help people build a life in those countries too. We know that not all people who seek a better life cannot come to Europe either. With regard to Sweden, Madam President, our view in the Liberals is that Sweden should protect the right of asylum. This means that a person seeking asylum should have his/her case examined individually. You have the right to appeal the decision in court. If you are refused your application and a final judgment, you will have to return. The right of asylum is now under attack from various quarters. It is undermined both by strange legislation and by those who advocate that Sweden should not in practice comply with the Geneva Convention. We in the Liberals are very concerned about this debate. At the same time, we cannot have a reception that is taking place in a way that our society cannot cope with. Basically, there is a contradiction between a very large refugee immigration and the welfare state. I think we need to be aware that this conflict may exist. This is something that some people choose to take out on immigrants, which is, of course, totally unacceptable and terrible. We in the parliamentary committee must be able to create a regulatory framework that is responsible and sustainable in the long term and which means that Sweden receives, in order to refer to what my colleague from the Christian Democrats said, a search pressure that is at a reasonable level and that our society can handle in terms of school, social services, housing, the opportunity to get jobs and so on. The basic value of liberals in the work of the Parliamentary Committee is that we should now have the opportunity to reach a broad agreement and reach a goal. I am convinced that this is also what the Swedish people want. People expect us sitting in this House to pull ourselves together and formulate rules that are reasonable. I am also convinced that the vast majority of Swedes do not think that we should close our borders and that the vast majority of Swedes do not think that we should have wide-open borders. People are basically behind a reasonable order in which we help people in need of protection, but that we do so in a way that our society, our authorities, our core functions in society and our economy are capable of. Finally, Madam President, it is not reasonable for us to have an order in the world where very many countries with a strong economy and functioning institutions – sustainable societies – do not stand up and become programme countries to the UNHCR. Sweden is one of the countries that receives the most quota refugees, 5 000 each year. It is a great commitment for our country. The figure of 5,000 sounds rather small, but there are many people involved. It is often people who are very broken as a result of wars, conflicts and so on. There are also many women and children. It's a tough process to get those people integrated into Sweden, so it's a big commitment we make. I wish that more countries take responsibility, conclude agreements with the UNHCR and receive quota refugees. Even if they go from zero to ten, it's better than they stay at zero. I also think that the Swedish Government in the field of foreign policy should make greater use of diplomacy and put pressure on countries with which we have bilateral relations in order for more countries to stand up and take responsibility.
i-60fa296f155a828a-543	Mr President, I would like to It is noticeable that Fredrik Malm is passionate about foreign affairs and sits on the Foreign Affairs Committee. And I'm glad, because I was able to agree with him for the first four minutes or so but not all of it so clearly. When it comes to which countries take responsibility and not in the EU, we clearly have different views and how responsibility is to be implemented. It is about international efforts and giving neighbouring countries support in being worthy of the recipient countries at a direct stage, whether they are transit countries to which they will not be able to return, if it is a country that might become a permanent home or a country that is being rebuilt so that you can return to your home country. I, of course, moved on to insinuations that we are not behind the right of asylum, the Geneva Convention and such things. What is being talked about and aired in connection with the Migration Committee is that it stands behind the right of asylum. The question is how to get a policy that allows people to apply for asylum in the right place and at the right time, because it is a fact that we have had an unreasonable number of asylum seekers in Sweden. It is also a fact that, although we have much of the legislation at European level, different interpretations can be made. There is room for tightening up within the agreements we are bound by. It is also a fact that the Geneva Convention clearly states that, for example, it should be possible to expel people if they pose major risks, regardless of what they risk in their home country. There is another convention that stands in the way, which I am fully aware of, but it was just referred to the Geneva Convention. My questions are: Does Fredrik Malm mean that, within the agreements we have, we should tighten up as much as possible, or should we just wait and see where joint decisions may eventually arrive in the future?
i-60fa296f155a828a-547	Mr President, I would like to It is very positive if the Swedish Democrats are behind the right of asylum. In that case, it is a position that Paula Bieler and the party might be a little clearer with and highlight in the public debate. This is not always the picture you get when you listen to Swedish democrats and follow the debate, but it is very gratifying in that case. Mr President, I would like to It is important to emphasise that the right to asylum is an individual right based on the Geneva Convention. We Liberals think it is very important to protect individual rights. That is why we support the right of asylum. Asylum law does not mean that all people can stay, as there are sometimes misconceptions in the debate. It is a question of examining applications based on whether or not there is a need for protection. Paula Bieler's question to me is whether the Liberals want to tighten up migration policy. Yes, in some parts we do. We realise that if Sweden is to have an asylum right and protect people in need of protection, people who are not in need of protection may not be able to stay in Sweden, and if you want to bring their family here, it is reasonable to have a livelihood requirement without all the exceptions of today. There are some elements to migration policy that can be turned on. Liberals' basic position is that Sweden should continue to be a country that welcomes people who want to move here and live here and a country that helps people who are on the run.
i-60fa296f155a828a-552	Mr President, I would like to I thank Fredrik Malm for his answer. It is positive that we at least want to tighten up certain parts. However, the introduction to the answer shows that Fredrik Malm has not listened clearly to the Swedish Democrats over the years. Ever since I started discussing these issues, even before I was a spokesperson, I have been clear that the right to asylum is being eroded by the policy being pursued. Asylum law means that you should be able to seek protection close to where you are and not oppressed by transit countries as soon as possible. No country should be able to avoid taking on its responsibilities. But that is exactly what has happened. That is why I was pleased when Fredrik Malm spoke in his speech about how to help countries nearby to be a better place. I am curious to know what the Liberals want to do more specifically in this area so that people do not escape half the world. Moving on via quota refugee systems or resettlement systems must nevertheless be considered as stage two. The right of asylum means that you should be protected as soon and as close as possible, and no country should have to face up to its responsibilities.
i-60fa296f155a828a-555	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit difficult for Sweden to decide how Kenya should use its asylum law. What we are responsible for are people who come to Sweden and seek asylum. I agree that it is not reasonable for people to zigzag through many countries in order to seek asylum in a specific country, but it is reasonable to seek protection in the first country to which protection is provided. I agree with that. We also have the Dublin Regulation's principle of first country of asylum and other things. So it's not weird. However, there will be problems if the right of asylum is replaced by an idea that everyone should be accepted on quota. Should a Russian independent journalist drop off at a literature conference in Copenhagen and seek asylum there be sent to a fenced cape in Tunisia and line up for quota? Then we have no right to asylum. I am glad that Paula Bieler is not in favour of this approach.
i-60fa296f155a828a-558	Mr President, I would like to The 2010s are coming to an end, and we have soon completed a fifth of this century. We live in an exciting time, and things happen quickly. However, some changes are still taking place more slowly. In the early 2000s, the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center took place. I think we all remember that and where we were when we found out. After that, there were wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and we can still see the consequences of that in various parts of the world, not least in the area of migration. Migration has always existed, also to Sweden. Until about a hundred years ago, however, it was more about people leaving Sweden than coming here. Only in the 1930s did more people come to Sweden than left Sweden. As a result of world wars, refugees also came here. Since then we have had labour migration, and these people have been involved in building and strengthening Sweden while improving their own situation. Man's drive to create a better existence for himself and his family seems to be constant in time and space. Even today, people come here to work or study and to create a better future. This is of enormous benefit to us, and I am proud that Sweden has one of the world's most permissive regulations for labour immigration. But yes, Mr President, there are problems of exploitation, and we need to curb this and put our energies into preventing it. That's what I said. Mr President, I would like to World wars not only created flows of refugees to Sweden. At the end of the Second World War, the right of asylum was created, that is, the right of people to seek protection from persecution and a refuge in a peaceful, democratic country. The right of asylum is absolutely essential, but as with other rules that man has created, it cannot be taken for granted. Since it is being called into question, we must continue to protect it. Right now, a committee is working to review the future migration policy. It is no secret that the parties in the Swedish Parliament have different views on where we are going and that we are far from each other on many of the issues that are being dealt with. Some people want to set a roof while others want to go another way. For the Green Party, working towards a new humane protection base is an important issue in the Committee. It has previously existed in different forms in Sweden and is also available in a slightly different way in many other EU countries. It is unreasonable for severely ill children or elderly people to be expelled to countries where they cannot receive the care they need. Mr President, I would like to The Migration Agency is an authority that has been tried in different ways over the years, partly through international changes and partly through political decisions. Last year there was less funding, and even now the budget is tight with tough priorities. We shall have expectations that the Migration Agency will be a well-functioning authority, and the assessment is that you can be so with the conditions you get. You also manage your goals in a good way, despite tough conditions. Several speakers have raised the migration courts. They're in a tough position, too. They are being added to the budget and, of course, we will be following them carefully in the future so that we can see that they are working well. Mr President, I would like to We're about to enter the 2020s. In ten years' time, we will hopefully have a situation in which we have fewer wars and conflicts in the world, when we have come to grips with most climate change, at least emissions, and then fewer are on the run but more have the opportunity to voluntarily travel and discover new parts of the world. Mr President, I would like to I wish the Presidium of Presidents, the committee, the committee office and everyone else a Merry Christmas with a lot of Christmas must, mulled wine, gingerbread and rice porridge. I support the committee's proposal.
i-60fa296f155a828a-569	Mr President, I would like to Today we have heard that the Left Party is in favour of an amnesty for those who have been granted temporary residence permits under the Upper Secondary Education Act. My simple and straightforward question to Rasmus Ling is therefore: Is the Green Party for or against an amnesty for those covered by the High School Act?
i-60fa296f155a828a-571	Mr President, I would like to I am incredibly proud that we worked out the High School Act so that some 8,000 unaccompanied persons were given the opportunity to be heard according to the rules that would have applied when they arrived. Due to long processing times they were 18 years old or registered in age, it was therefore very important to get this legislation in place. We will work to ensure that those covered by the Upper Secondary Education Act meet the conditions as far as possible. We in the Green Party want a solution so that those covered can stay. I think an amnesty is thinking of something else. These people who have come and who have rooted themselves in Sweden should be able to continue to build their lives here. I and the Green Party will work for this.
i-60fa296f155a828a-574	Mr President, I would like to Among others, the Green Party voted for the High School Act. In retrospect, we know that it does not work, so what is the second solution? Is it that some should wait four or five years, as some have had to do? All those covered by the Time-limited Upper Secondary Education Act have had their asylum reasons examined. So my question is: What is the solution? Is that an amnesty? If it is not an amnesty, you can answer no to the question and say that the solution is not an amnesty. I do not understand that it can be so difficult to answer yes or no to a question.
i-60fa296f155a828a-575	Mr President, I would like to It depends on what is meant by an amnesty. I'm very glad we got through the High School Act. I would have liked it to have been designed in a different way so that we would have had a situation in which those covered would have been granted permanent residence permits and it would not have been delayed in this way and rendered clear the problems that we are now seeing. At the same time, I see that the solution that was the best possible. It has given about 8,000 people the opportunity to continue living and working in Sweden. I'm glad we got this through. If it had been what the Moderates wanted, we wouldn't have had that situation. I'm glad we got to it in the best way possible.
i-60fa296f155a828a-580	Mr President, I would like to This autumn it is four years since Sweden went through the most difficult refugee crisis since the Second World War. In the autumn of 2015, more than 100,000 asylum seekers arrived in Sweden within four months. At most, it was about 10,000 a week. The root cause, of course, is the terrible war in Syria – that which had raged since 2011 killing tens of thousands of people and driven millions of people to flee first to the immediate vicinity, to rapidly overcrowding refugee camps in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan and then on to Europe when desperation and despair became too great and there was no end to the war. We were a newly-responsive government. We had inherited the Moderate-led Government's refugee legislation, the EU's most generous. This meant, among other things, that Sweden received 15% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU despite the fact that we represent only 2% of the EU population. I think everyone understands that it was untenable in the long run. We worked intensively in 2015 to try to achieve a more even distribution across Europe so that all countries could share responsibility. But when it did not work, we had to act nationally to take control of the situation. And we acted forcefully, with border controls at ports and on the Öresund Bridge from November 2015, with ID checks on ferries between Sweden and Germany at about the same time, with ID checks between Denmark and Sweden from January 2016 and pushing forward a new asylum legislation that we brought down to the EU minimum level. The Act entered into force in summer 2016. When I hear how cocky the Moderates are at this point and in the debate here it is almost so that I am a bit amused. Now the Moderates are trying to seem tough in the debate, but I know what it was like when it really was. First of all, it was the policy of the Moderates that led us into the crisis. You had been in charge of migration policy for eight years and had already taken generous legislation and made it even more generous. Then when we faced the crisis, what did the Moderates do? I stood here myself-- I think it's almost on the day four years ago-- and pushed through the ID controls. We were then promised by the Moderates that they would back up the ID controls. But once we were in this Chamber, the Moderates couldn't do it. I was then suddenly told by the representative of the Moderates that you would not vote in favour of the ID checks, but instead you would abstain. Tobias Billström, who has previously been Minister of Migration, wrote a recent famour's article calling the ID checks devastating for integration into the Öresund. The strange thing happened that the Green Party was able to back up the ID controls, but the Moderates couldn't handle it. When the crisis came, you couldn't stand it. You pressed a yellow button. When it really came to it, Mr President, the Moderates were not much to hold in hand. The proposal went through anyway, and it was absolutely crucial for us to be able to control the situation. Without ID checks, Sweden could well have received perhaps a few hundred thousand more asylum seekers who were not registered in Germany during this time. That's not what happened. With the decisions that Social Democrats and environmentalists pushed through – indeed difficult but absolutely necessary – we took the grip on migration policy, and we are not going to let that go. We took Sweden out of this crisis, and I do not intend to contribute to us ending up there again. We then created the breathing space that we needed to take care of all these people who had fled the war and come to Sweden. There were those who said: It will never go! The state finances are going to collapse. The unemployment rate is going to rise. These people will never get a job. Then the question is, did that happen? We know something about that now, four years later. After five years of a red-green government, unemployment is lower, employment is higher and public finances are stronger, while we have received tens of thousands of asylum seekers during the period. How, then, has this happened? I think it's about two things. The first is, of course, that we stopped the influx. Now we have the lowest number of asylum seekers in 13 years. But it is also a question of changing the distribution. As I said, in Moderate time Sweden received 15% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU. Today it is 3%, and Sweden has, as has been said, 2% of the EU's population overall. So now we're about where we're supposed to be. This is one thing: we stopped the influx. The second is that we have had a very good development in the labour market over these years. Since the government took office in 2014, employment has increased by over 300 000 people. About 200 000 of these were born abroad. We now have just over 5 million people in total labour force. So many people work in Sweden. Of these, over 1 million, Mr President, are born abroad. Almost 20 per cent of those working in Sweden are born abroad. We meet them every day of the day. They are teachers, nurses, doctors, carers, construction workers and industrial workers. We meet them everywhere in everyday life. They sit in the register at Konsum, and they help disabled people as personal assistants– they are everywhere. 1 million foreign-born people on the Swedish labour market work and work as workers, as officials and as academics with all of us for Sweden. They deserve respect for it. I will never join, Mr President, in the voices that constantly pick on immigrants and portray them as some kind of worse people. They make them guilty of any kind of problem our country may have. I will never join these voices. History teaches us that such talk, which selects scapegoats and incites against minorities, never ends well. Sweden is our common home. We build this together, both we who have lived here and have our roots here for generations and those who have just come here. Then we are through the refugee crisis. It is now a matter of continuing the integration work so that people can continue to get jobs, housing and education. I am convinced that we will be able to do so. However, with regard to asylum policy, we learned an important lesson in those years, and that is that Sweden cannot have a policy that differs significantly from the other EU countries. It is so important that it is not just something that we have decided on at the Social Democratic Party Congress – for we have done so – but we think it is so important that we have entered it as a fundamental starting point for the Migration Policy Committee, which is now sitting and working. All parties participate in this work. The Committee is due to present its proposals this summer, and I look forward to that. Our hope is that it is possible to create a long-term sustainable policy with a broad foundation in Parliament, but then everyone must be prepared to compromise. We are convinced that it will be possible if the will is there. It would be a decision of strength if we could create such a consensus. Last: We had some turbulent years 2015, 2016 and 2017. This is what we are now essentially through. It's so very easy to get stuck in details, and I think we should never forget the people that it's basically about. Since the war broke out in Syria in 2011, Sweden has provided shelter for 178 000 Syrians. It's men, it's women, and it's children who may have seen their homes bombed and their relatives killed. These are people who otherwise very well could have perished in a bomb plot in Homs or Aleppo. Today they are creating a new home in Sweden. We help them to learn Swedish, to validate their grades and to establish themselves in the labour market. The children are hopefully beginning to push away all that terrible things that they have experienced during their initial years of life, and instead they may begin to dream of a future in Sweden. We must never forget this. Refugee reception 2015 and 2016 is Sweden's largest humanitarian operation in our generation. We should be fundamentally proud of that.
i-60fa296f155a828a-602	Mr President, I would like to Let me remind the Minister of Migration how it sounded when Stefan Löfven stood here and read his first government declaration on 3 October 2014: Sweden should have a humane asylum policy and be a haven for those fleeing persecution and oppression. A broad commitment to migration policy is a strength for our country. All Swedish municipalities must assume joint and several responsibility for the reception of refugees. The reception is reinforced with additional resources for SFIs and opportunities for newcomers to complement their education. The agreement on migration policy is solid. Broad settlements in Parliament in the area of migration policy will be sought. ..................................................... So you accepted the policy of the Alliance. Now you're pointing the cape at us. Where's your own responsibility? The refugee crisis began in the summer. In October, the government gave in, under pressure from the opposition. Mr President, I would like to I think it's very interesting. In debate articles, social media and television interviews, the Social Democrats are advocating a tight and limited migration policy. But every time they come to this House, they press the button that leads to more generous refugee policy. What does the Minister of Migration want?
i-60fa296f155a828a-607	Mr President, I would like to I find it hard to understand what Mr Arin wanted to say with the first part, where he read out what Stefan Löfven said in the government declaration. What he said was that we intend to invest in increasing integration and make sure that among other things, we educate those who have come to Sweden. The first thing I did when I took office as Minister of Migration five years ago was to invite the other parties, including the Moderates, precisely to ask the question: Is there anything about politics that we need to develop and change? That was when this deal was settled. We joined it initially, but it was you who created it. When we saw that the situation was as it was and that this was not sustainable in the long term, when in autumn 2015, we saw that it was difficult to get more countries to take responsibility – in the end we were there alone with Germany – we changed the policy. But when we changed politics, the Moderates weren't there. Then you couldn't help. You pressed the yellow button for the ID controls, and that is exactly what I pointed out. That is the concern of Mr Arin in this debate. Then Mr Arin says that every time it goes in a liberal direction. It's just the opposite. We took responsibility in autumn 2015. We are the only government, at least as I know, that has brought the legislation down to the lowest level in the European Union. There is no other government that has done so. It is therefore completely wrong, Mr President, to say that we are in some way only going in one direction. However, once we had grasped migration policy, we could begin to look at what different parts we could change. Take, for example, the discussion on family reunification, where we could ensure that women and children who remained in the refugee camps could be reunited with their husband and father in Sweden, perhaps after several years. We could take that step because it did not compromise politics as such. This also shows the result. No, Mr President, Mr Arin is wrong in substance here.
i-60fa296f155a828a-613	Mr President, I would like to I will read the penultimate sentence again: the agreement on migration policy is solid. So you accepted that policy. It took four party leaders from the opposition to come and knock on your door and invite themselves in for the government to take hold of it. I do not think it is easy to sit in the same government as the Green Party. There will be more internal meetings than meetings where one should carry out something. But again: We got the High School Act, and we got more generous family immigration. It's patchwork after patchwork. Now we have a migration investigation. Stefan Löfven has gone out and said that the Social Democrats are in favour of a tight migration policy. It still says on your website that you went to elections on it. Will you contribute to a tighter and more limited migration policy than we have today? Is that what the investigation will result in? Or will it be a more generous policy that goes the Green Party and Left Party way?
i-60fa296f155a828a-616	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that, when the crisis was approaching, it was the Green Party that delivered. They were prepared to stop behind the emergency response that we had to make at the time in the field of ID controls. You Moderates pressed a yellow button – abstained, ran and hid from the question, did not want to be there – because you yourselves were divided on that particular issue. If we had not made this effort, we would not have pushed this through, our entire asylum system would have collapsed. As a matter of fact, that's the way it is. Now it didn't. We handled the situation in 2015 and 2016. What about the Migration Committee? I look forward to the outcome of those negotiations and that report. What I want is a long-term sustainable migration policy that has as broad an anchor as possible in this House. I hope the parties can sew it together. I would like to see and hope that the Moderates are constructive and are in such a deal in the end.
i-60fa296f155a828a-619	Mr President, I would like to Now it has been a few hours since the last speech was made, so it is in the past just like much of what was discussed in it. My questions will remind you quite a lot of those in a previous change of line, then with Carina Ohlsson. They stem from the fact that at the moment I find it difficult to understand how the government relates to authorities under it. There's another matter about what's up right now, but it's not on the table here. On the other hand, in both my speech and in the past, I highlighted the rather strange relationship that one has with the basis that one has received from the authorities for the preparation of the budget. After all, it is a budget report that we are dealing with here. As far as detention centres are concerned, the government prides itself on the fact that it has budgeted more than in previous years and has actually increased the funding. But the fact is that they do not at all give the resources they want to keep the capacity properly and certainly not as much as they could give to increase the number of places they operate. It is not about expanding more places, but about the authority itself having said that you could run more places if you actually decide to do so. Given that we have a 99 percent coating, I might think it would be a pretty good idea to do that. As far as the immigration courts are concerned, they have also not received the funds they are asking for in order to be able to pick up all the cases that have been put on their table at the moment. The possibility of handing over cases to others has certainly been extended, but this will hardly cover the needs of the migration courts. My question is simply: how does the government reason when it does not listen to these requests from the authorities?
i-60fa296f155a828a-625	Mr President, I would like to That's exactly what we've done. As far as the migration courts were concerned, the fundamental problem was that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats underfunded them. When you pushed forward the budget that you pushed forward last autumn, the migration courts had requested SEK 940 million. Of you, they received SEK 691 million. The Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates therefore underfunded the migration courts by 25 per cent. The first thing we had to do, Mr President, when we came back in January, was to pour another 200 million SEK into the migration courts so that they could do their job. Now you pick a case for a case. I see how the balances are decreasing – I think we have almost a halving of the balances now from 2018 to 2019. Although we still have long waiting times, the balance is gradually decreasing. Because of the budgetary decisions of the Swedish Democrats, Christian Democrats and Moderates that you pushed through, we actually had quite a lot of problems, and as I said, we had to try to correct that in the spring. When it comes to detention, it is similar. We have twice as many detention places as we had a couple of years ago. We have 520 seats. We opened a new detention as late as last spring in Ljungbyhed– I was there myself to visit – and there were another 40 places. We continue to go in with more money, but there had M, KD and SD allocated SEK 100 million to, as you said, 100 seats. It's just that each detention center costs about $1 million, so 100 million is not enough for a few hundred seats. That's how it usually is when you have a shaky basis and push for a budget that you might not have correctly calculated. We will continue to expand this business. We have done so already now, and we will also see to it if we can get additional seats for this in the coming years, because that is what is needed.
i-60fa296f155a828a-630	Mr President, I would like to I note that I did not receive an answer to the questions relating to the requests made by the authorities. I did not ask about previous budgets and who has or has not been voted through. As far as detention centres are concerned, I myself said that more places have been created, but more could also be created to run more places. Only in terms of operation can we budget for an extension. It is stated in the forecasts, and it has been chosen not to do so. I still do not understand why this priority is being made when, as I said, we have almost 100% occupancy and the police are forced to release people because they simply do not have defence sites to place them in. The same applies to the immigration courts. I do not think it is right to say that we were underfunded it then. We had to prioritize as best we could. In fact, the balances at the time were absolutely highest at the Migration Agency. Now they've moved on. Now it is the migration courts that need the most. In addition, both the detention centre and the migration courts can see that the costs per case have risen, and in that remark it is reasonable to reduce slightly but still increase overall, because that is what is needed.
i-60fa296f155a828a-633	Mr President, I would like to Yes, you're a priority. The Moderates, the KD and the Swedish Democrats were prioritised, one might say. The biggest effort that you made in these three parties when you voted through the draft budget that you voted for was not on the judiciary or on welfare or anything like that, but it was 20 billion in tax cuts. That was the priority M, KD and SD did. As I said, it went over other areas of funding. You underfunded the migration courts, and the first thing we had to do when we got back was to pour in another 200 million so that they could make it. As for detention centres, Paula Bieler may forget to mention that what the Migration Agency has said is that by densification they could produce additional places from 2021, not from 2020. I am, of course, prepared to continue to have a dialogue with the Migration Agency during the coming year. They have a mission to review accessibility in Norrland to create more detention places in the coming year, for that is needed.
i-60fa296f155a828a-635	Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd try to find out a little bit about the philosophical question: When is now? I do so on the basis of the medical age assessments and the investigation promised by the government on 9 April this year. Then the government said to set up an investigation into medical age assessments. After six months, in August, I thought it was time to ask how the investigation was going. Then I got the answer that the government will set up an investigation now. As a parent, I'm quite used to that kind of answer, so I thought that now can be right now, but it can also sometimes mean never in life. But I thought I'd wait a little bit. I waited more than a month after the answer and asked the question again. Then I received a reply that decisions can be taken as soon as the preparation is completed. Then I thought, Mr President, that I and the Parliament also understand that this is the case. My questions today to the Minister for Migration are: How is it going? Can we expect the investigation to be set up within at least a year after it was promised, or what? When is now?
i-60fa296f155a828a-638	Mr President, I would like to We will set up the investigation once the preparation is complete, and we are in the final stage of that preparation. Nevertheless, I think we can say a few words about what the issue is about. The problem was that when we took office once five years ago, Sweden was in practice the only country in our world that was unable to make medical age assessments. That is to say, it was very difficult to determine how old the asylum seekers were when they came here. This led to major problems, including the placement of adults and children in the homes with known results. For example, we had some rather serious cases of abuse when grown men were put together with teenage girls and boys. It was not at all satisfactory; on the contrary, it was a very, very big problem. We therefore made sure to launch the system that had existed but had capsized already in 2013, under the old alliance government. And the alliance government had done nothing to try to restore it. We commissioned the Swedish Agency for Forensics to develop a system that we in Sweden could use. And it would be as modern and legally secure as possible. These are methods on which there is no consensus. I don't know if Christina Höj Larsen knows what method she would like to use. I've never pointed out any particular method. I have said that it is important to ensure that the methods are consistent with the level of legal certainty that we need and that it is carried out in an ethically correct manner. Then the authority has had to design the methods itself. At the same time, those who criticise the method that we have in Sweden today find it difficult to say for themselves what they would like to have instead. I certainly do not want a situation in which we will once again be the only country in our world that is unable to make medical age assessments. That would be very serious.
i-60fa296f155a828a-643	Mr President, I would like to I note that I still do not know at what end of the scale the government is, in relation to now and never in life. But I hope that we will have clarification and that it will come soon. In the meantime, children and young people are judged by these methods, which are not reliable. Of course, I don't know exactly what medical methods are to be used either. But what I do know is that there is a broad consensus among pediatricians and others who deal with children and young people that it needs to be an age assessment that takes psychosocial factors into account. And for the assessment to be good, it needs to be done in full by a pediatrician. So it should not be possible to pick individual parts from the certificates to say that this knee is that age and this tooth is that age. This is an overall assessment. There's medical knowledge united. I look forward to the investigation finally being set up soon.
i-60fa296f155a828a-646	Mr President, I would like to Such an overall assessment is, in fact, what is being done today. The medical age assessment is only part of the basis. Other assessments are also made, including those of a psychosocial nature. But it's part of it. I say again that this works in the vast majority of countries in the world around us. If, because there is criticism of a method, I should say that we are abolishing it again, I fear we will find ourselves in a situation where we alone cannot do so. I note that during the refugee crisis in 2015, 35 000 unaccompanied young people came to Sweden in a single year. About a third of all unaccompanied minors who came to the EU came to Sweden. I will not say that it is the whole explanation, but it may have recorded that Sweden was the only country that was then unable to make age assessments. I don't want to put us back in that situation.
i-GemgAUzHkFgjcPpmsi5UxQ	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start this debate on labour market policy by calling for the approval of Moderates' reservation 7 in paragraph 3 of the AU4 report on Employment Services for time. My colleague, Mrs Quicklund, will later in this debate report on our moderate approaches to issues relating to health and safety at work and Samhall. Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a country where everyone does their part and where diligence and effort pay off. The Moderates are a party for those who work, for those who want to work and for those who have worked. Full employment is central to our present and future prosperity. But it's more than that. It is also a question of what society we want. When it pays to work, it becomes clear that it is right to strive to create a better life for oneself and for others. As we lower taxes on labour, more people get into jobs, and we get more money for welfare. When you increase taxes on labour, more people get caught up in and return to dependency and exclusion. We also get less money for welfare. Every dollar that goes to the allowance is a penny less to the welfare and to the police. Experience shows that reducing taxes on labour and making it more profitable to move from contributions to work is the most effective measure, by far and away, to reduce unemployment and get more people to work. If you are serious about getting more people into work, you can never ignore this simple and obvious fact. We Moderates want to continue to lower taxes for those who work. We are doing it because it is right; it increases employment. And we do it because it's fair; effort should pay off. Mr President, I would like to Total taxes in Sweden remain high for people with low incomes. For single women, they are among the highest in the OECD. Both Swedish and international experiences show that a policy that makes it more profitable to work is important to permanently increase employment and reduce absenteeism in the labour market. The job tax deduction has been evaluated by the Ministry of Finance, among other things, and the results show that the employment effects of the reform are very large. We Moderates propose a further reduction in taxes for everyone who works. But it is particularly noticeable for those who step into the labour market from exclusion. Everyone who earns more than $15,000 a month receives a tax reduction equal to $3,200 a year. Together with the step that we Moderates took together with the Christian Democrats in the budget last autumn, this would mean that all employees in Sweden get between SEK 400 and 500 more in their wallets every month. Mr President, I would like to The problems that stand in the way of Sweden reaching full employment differ over time. Between 2006 and 2014, the alliance government's main task was to break the widespread exclusion that affected people who were retired early and sickly removed from the labour market. To break the negative trend, major structural reforms were needed which increased labour supply, strengthened the chances of returning to work and made it more profitable to work. As a result of the Alliance's reforms, exclusion also decreased by a quarter. Mr President, I would like to Now the challenge has shifted. It is mainly non-European born and less educated people who end up outside. Despite several years of economic boom, unemployment is now back at the same levels as four years ago. Stefan Lövven's promise that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020 has now changed in its opposite. On the contrary, Sweden is now one of the countries with the highest unemployment rate in the EU. Only countries such as Greece, Italy, Spain and France are worse off. These are countries, Mr President, which we usually never want to be compared to. This is untenable. Mr President, I would like to We need to reform the Swedish labour market fundamentally and across the board. We need to tackle everything from too high thresholds into the labour market to major recruitment problems, a dysfunctional LAS that does not benefit anyone, a continued reform of conflict law and a change in unemployment insurance to effective conversion insurance. Furthermore, we need to facilitate and stimulate transition and skills development in the labour market in general and reform an employment service worthy of the name. These are just a few measures in a number of huge challenges for the Swedish labour market. With regard to the dysfunctional Employment Service and the need to fundamentally reform one of the country's largest agencies, I now note that we have forced the government, the Liberals and the Centers to back off those parts of the January Agreement that threatened a successful reform of the Employment Service. We do not share the government's view on how the Public Employment Service should be reformed and note that there are obvious contradictions between the parties in the January Agreement and directly conflicting information about how this should be done. This applies, among other things, to the role and conditions of municipalities, to just mention something. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I wonder what the government is doing to face the rise in unemployment. Well, its single largest investment in the field of labour market – 1 billion a year – is about re-establishing the free year in a changed form, now called a development year. The single largest investment in the labour market is therefore about paying people not to work. This is the last thing Sweden and especially the unemployed in Sweden need. Let me give you what LO has said: over 700 000 people lack permanent jobs – many of them women – and they are left out of this proposal. You miss those who are insecure in the labour market. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise notes that the company chooses to invest a lot of money once again in giving those who already have jobs paid to be absent from work. That is hardly what the Swedish labour market needs today. ..................................................... I could quote critical consultation bodies indefinitely, Mr President. Of course, it is not only unacceptable but also untenable that the single greatest effort in the labour market is about those who already have jobs being able to take time off instead of an effective and ambitious job policy worthy of the name being created as unemployment is now increasing. It is not in this way that Sweden's major challenges for the future are solved.
i-60fa296f155a828a-666	Mr President, I would like to I've had to sleep some of the Moderates' suggestions, because there's a lot to shake my head at. The Moderates, especially in this part of their budget exercise, may show the very strong belief of the closest religious nature that they have in how market mechanisms should work even when they face reality and real people. They also show a very strong reluctance to relate to statistics in a reasonable way. For example, Mats Green did not seem very well-versed in the difference between the proportion of the population working, which is very high in Sweden, and the figures relating to unemployment, which are counted as a proportion of those seeking employment. I was going to focus on unemployment insurance. It is an insurance policy that the Moderates have for a long time disliked and that at different times they have been very successful in destroying. It is interesting to see that these want to go back and reintroduce a Karen's Day and abolish the part-time restriction that most agreed on led to very strange effects. Furthermore, they also want to make a sharper cut in the amount of insurance that is already quite tight today. My questions concern the following: Why are the Moderates such opponents that people have security within an insurance system when they happen to be unemployed? And why are the Moderates so uninterested in the facts and statistics of the labour market? There are also other areas where they are, but now the labour market is concerned.
i-60fa296f155a828a-669	Mr President, I would like to As for the lack of interest in facts and statistics, I feel, Mr President, that this is actually my line. I'm the one who should tell Ali Esbati. Furthermore, Ali Esbati had views on the employment rate when I wondered why the government's employment target has so completely failed. It is true that Sweden has a high employment rate. All I'm doing is demanding responsibility from the government for the job goals it itself has set itself. It was about having the lowest unemployment in the EU, nothing else. If you look at the facts and statistics of the unemployment insurance fund, you will definitely see that when the current government introduced changes for the unemployment insurance fund in 2016, labour force participation decreased. This is the last thing Sweden needs and welfare needs. Of course we also need to reset the unemployment fund. I have noted that most people in this House agree on this. Moreover, the unemployment fund is not part of our social security system, as Ali Esbati is trying to show. It's not. But, of course, people should be able to be safe when they are in unemployment. Above all, however, we need to redirect the unemployment fund so that it encourages a rapid search for another job and takes greater responsibility for its own adjustment. I note that it is really only the Left Party in this House that does not share the view of the very obvious need for a stronger focus on the conversion of the Swedish unemployment fund.
i-60fa296f155a828a-674	Mr President, I would like to As for which line was whose, I'll let that mirror-- the star-stop thing go and leave it there. I note that the Moderates want to change part-time restrictions. Next n all agreed that they led to the effect that it did not pay off to work. It was one of the few political proposals that actually led to it. So the Moderates want to reintroduce that. They want to lower the unemployment fund in a situation where we know that there are countries with a high level of employment, including Sweden historically, that have managed to have good conditions for those who become unemployed. It contributes to the transition, not the opposite. Instead, the proposals put forward by the Moderates contribute to increasing poverty associated with unemployment. My question is unanswered: Why are the Moderates so interested in making more poor people instead of creating a better labour market?
i-60fa296f155a828a-678	Mr President, I would like to What Ali Esbati really says is that I should not torment him with too much factual knowledge. It is proven that after the government changed the unemployment benefit in 2016, people's period of exclusion and unemployment was extended. The government also extended the period when people depended on subsidies. The only real security you have is, of course, if you get another job as quickly as possible. Again: We will of course have a secure and flexible unemployment insurance fund, but stop standing and idolizing the current system we in Sweden have for unemployment insurance! I note once again that I can sympathise with the wording agreed by the parties to the January agreement with regard to the unemployment fund. I also note that perhaps the party of Ali Ali is the only party in this House that does not want those changes. But the only security is about more safe jobs.
i-60fa296f155a828a-683	Mr President, I would like to After a year and a half for me in the Labour Market Committee, a lot has happened in Swedish labour market policy. My feeling is that much more will happen in the future, which makes it exciting to work with our own committee. Sweden has major challenges in many ways, not least in the labour market. With the greatest segregation between foreign-born and Swedish-born in Europe, we believe that it is time for a new political direction, especially since everything indicates that the situation will get worse in the future. According to the latest forecast from the Employment Service, unemployment continues to rise and long-term unemployment is expected to rise to the highest in 20 years. So this is happening before we have reached a recession, and it is remarkable. Stepping in the same footsteps as we have been doing for a long time will not lead us to new results, but new constructive measures need to be implemented. Creating real jobs is a prerequisite for maintaining a secure and stable labour market over time. When we have public and private employers in need of labour, who both require high skills and do not require skills, while there is unemployment, something is fundamentally wrong. Either it is the matching through Arbetsförmedlingen that is flawed or people have been forced into an unsound dependency on benefits. I think it's both. To continue investing in investments that are barely profitable is headless, irresponsible and a waste of tax money. That is why we want to see a shift where we stop pumping money into establishment measures that make a difference to people depending on where in the world you come from. All people who can contribute to our welfare should do so – whether you are born here or not. It is a policy of democracy in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to At a time when insecurity is growing stronger, shootings and explosions are everyday and the welfare we have taken for granted is eroded, it is the ordinary citizen who pays the price. When the Swedish Democrats grow in public opinion, it is because of a falling social project. While our political opponents believe that it is we in the Swedish Democrats who paint with black brushes and spread a negative view of Sweden's image, it is the ordinary citizen in reality who has a strong sense of insecurity. It is a feeling that unfortunately all too often turns into an experience. No, Mr President, this is part of reality, and unfortunately it is enough to open the daily press to realise that it has gone too far a long time ago. Why am I addressing these issues in today's spending area? Because this is all connected. When we have for a long time released the obligation and taught only about all the rights that each individual has access to, it becomes wrong. A strong society places a clear demand for duty in order to create a sense of belonging and the collective context. This was understood by the early Social Democrats, but in the last four decades we have increasingly released the principles and morals that built our country. Each individual citizen must take his or her own responsibility to study and learn a profession and the Swedish language in order to apply for the labour market – each according to the conditions. There, the government will offer tools, but responsibility must lie with each individual. Mr President, I would like to We believe that a well-functioning labour market policy should include few but effective measures aimed at regular employment for job seekers. I believe that quality and process accounting should be at the heart of our prosperity, and therefore the use of short-term, inefficient and costly solutions must cease. Labour market policy must therefore be reformed in such a way that less money is spent on labour market measures, while companies are given better conditions. We believe that there are good reasons to move resources away from many of the costly and inefficient programmes and interventions that the Public Employment Service administers. At the same time, we want to increase funding for municipalities in order to increase incentives for matching with real jobs. According to our draft budget, municipalities receive compensation for this in Category 25 in the form of a significantly higher increase in the municipal compensatory allowance. We also believe that unemployment insurance should move towards full state funding and should be taken over administratively by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. This is what I made a longer statement about in my speech last time we had this debate a year ago. However, the requirements for receiving benefits should remain in their current form, but the requirement for membership of unemployment funds should be phased out. Our proposals to increase the level of compensation and national unemployment insurance mean that we want to see a higher level than the government for the grant. Mr President, I would like to I would argue that none of us sitting in this House has all the answers to all the questions for the challenges ahead. During the 1990s, Prime Minister Carl Bildt appointed an expert commission to analyse the economic crisis and propose measures. The aim was to analyse and propose guidelines for future policy formulation in the light of the problems in the Swedish economy. Sweden is again in crisis. The government, like the previous government, should appoint an expert commission to analyse the problems of integration policy and propose future solutions. Such a Commission should be designed in such a way that it does not have to take into account previous political positions or prestige, but rather based on science and proven experience. We propose this to the government in our committee motion. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, of course, I would like to support all the reservations expressed by the Swedish Democrats, but I choose to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation in AU2 and reservation 16 in AU4. Finally, I would also like to wish all my colleagues in the committee and our office staff a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-60fa296f155a828a-698	Mr President, I would like to I'll take the formal part first. The Left Party has a coherent draft budget. Unfortunately, when our framework has not been approved, we refrain from taking part in decisions on the distribution of expenditure within the areas of expenditure, which means that we have a specific opinion and not a reservation in the AU2. As far as the AU4 is concerned, we also have a number of specific opinions there, due to the fact that we have strong proposals on these issues in budgetary terms. But we also have some reservations that I support. I support one of them, namely AU4 reservation No 10. I shall begin by addressing a matter that has attracted some attention in recent times, namely the question of the Employment Service. We have had to deal with a kind of expected breakdown that has taken place in a few different acts with partly different lead holders. It was something that was raised even before the election where there were different ideas about closing the Arbetsförmedlingen. Then we have a napkin drawing budget from the M-KD-SD, and then there has been a fatal neo-liberal chaos agreement in January. Since then, the Government has been responsible for the functioning of labour market policy and the main authority to manage it. Unfortunately, the government has been disheartened at taking that responsibility. First, although it was clear at the time that something had to be done, there was a confused governance of an authority in crisis, it was not enough to add resources to the supplementary budget. The draft budget for 2020 has also essentially avoided providing the necessary resources. Only a few sentences in the budget affect this situation. From the Left side we have definitely seen this coming. We have raised the issue in this House, in the general debate, and we have initiated an up-to-date debate. We have provided funds in our draft budget, for operations and for administrative appropriations. Furthermore, we have notified the government's handling of the KU because we believe that a government cannot pause its responsibility pending the interpretation of the January agreement. We have tried to put an emergency stop through an initiative in the Committee on Employment. In the meantime, we have noted that heavy actors in and around the Public Employment Service, including the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, have expressed great concern on the basis of actual developments, which the January parties have not wanted to know. It was in that situation, in the light of office closures, increased transition to municipal support and alarm reports on in-depth problems for people with disabilities, that we said we were prepared to initiate a motion of censure against the responsible minister unless the government could put in a kind of emergency brake. We formulated a number of scaled-down demands, and after some pirouettes the government eventually backed up. Now it is said that a future system should not be based on free drawing rights for commercial operators, what is called the LOV, the Freedom of Choice Act, and implementation is postponed. That's a good step. I want to make it clear that it is just an emergency stop and that the government bears and must continue to take responsibility. We will closely monitor how this is handled in the future. Mr President, I would like to In our budget exercise, A plan for equality and green transition, we in the Left Party take a holistic approach to the growing gaps in Swedish society. In recent decades inequality in our society has increased. Relative poverty has doubled in less than ten years, while the economic elite has improved. This is due, among other things, to the systematic and politically determined financial punishment of people who, for various reasons, have not been able to work. This is because the redeployment of the tax system has greatly weakened. This is due to the relative impoverishment of public services through constant pressure that has shifted resources from the common to the private and commercial. The Left Party knows we can do better in this country. We want Sweden to become the world's most equal country. That is what characterises our entire budget exercise. It is about implementing the changes that give greater freedom and greater potential for human creativity and for a kinder and warmer association, which equality gives. It is a policy for inclusion, a policy that counteracts segregation and facilitates establishment in society. In the budget motion, we also clearly show how our proposals are financed, above all, by raising capital taxes and by increasing taxes on them with the highest incomes. In the field of labour market policy, the proposals of the Left Party are generally more ambitious than those advocated by the government. We believe that it is necessary if we are serious about the goals of a sustainable working life with room for more people. That is why, as I mentioned, we have allocated more money to labour market policy programmes. But we also want to see a different composition of those measures. We want to see more of knowledge-raising efforts and of functional support aimed at those individuals who most need them. This therefore means more of high-quality measures that are more likely to cost than mass efforts with unclear aims or which seem to be more aimed at disciplining the unemployed than better equipping them for the needs of the labour market. In the same spirit, we reject some of the line choices made by the government with the neo-liberal support parties in which the pushers have landed. Among other things, it is about the management of the so-called start-up jobs. It is very gratifying that the social partners have been prepared to work out an agreement in principle to support the establishment of new arrivals without contributing to the creation of an entirely independent, isolated and poorer labour market. In this situation, it is strange that the government wants start-up jobs to be introduced also in temporary agencies and in companies without collective agreements. The whole point of those jobs is that they are based on agreements between the parties, that is, collective agreements. On the Left side, we regard it as unacceptable that the state should open up a new opportunity for dumped wages and conditions in the labour market in this way. We are very surprised that the Social Democrats have been able to contribute to such writings. The same type of concern also means that we have our reservation no. 10 in AU4. There we present several proposals to combat the abuse of subsidised employment. These are proposals which, unfortunately, are rejected by the Social Democrats in government. It is a question of imposing obligations on employers who employ people with subsidies to issue a certificate of service after employment. It is a question of reintroducing the requirement for employment benefits to comply with collective agreements on new start-ups and so on. It is very regrettable that the important problem in the labour market is not being dealt with by the government and even risks being exacerbated by the proposals it makes. Mr President, I would like to I would also have liked to have spoken much more about our draft budgets as tax deductions for unemployment funds and union contributions and our efforts in the field of health and safety at work in order to overcome deaths and injuries in working life. But I realize that time is running out, so I'll stay there. I wish everyone, and perhaps the cabinet in particular, a Merry Christmas with contributions and gifts made and given according to ability and received as needed.
i-60fa296f155a828a-714	Mr President, I would like to I felt that the Left Party would like a reply to the speech. I won't disappoint them. I thought I'd use the line to ask you a few simple questions. I put them to the President, but they touch on the Left Party. I wonder whether the Left Party is aware that the Center Party has in fact been consistent for five years against office closures in rural areas. We feel that it is neither effective, works with reform, nor saves any money. We think we are right about this. I also wonder whether the Left Party is aware that both in the supplementary budget and in the latter budget proposal for 2020 we first added hundreds of millions and then more than 1 billion in resources to the Employment Service's work. I wonder whether the Left Party is aware that there has never been a free drawing right for some independent intermediaries without, on the contrary, always insisting on very strict entry requirements and certification of all actors in a way that has already been developed in many countries and in Sweden within, among other things, the organisations of security organisations. Above all, I would like to ask, and that is the big question: what is the alternative plan of the Left Party to offer more effective help than it is today when only a small fraction, a few percent, is helped to find a job through the Employment Service? What is the alternative plan to get effective help for the unemployed, and not to leave them out of it today, and in practice not to give them the help they need, despite a lot of fantastic efforts from various employment agencies?
i-60fa296f155a828a-719	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I have great respect for the experiences of the Center Party and Martin Ådahl. I guess it's a good thing we're getting this line shift. As far as office closures are concerned, we can only conclude that it was the direct effect of the policy that Marin Ådahl was involved in pushing forward with the government. I am delighted that the Center Party has now come to its senses, including after pressure from various councillors in the Center Party. I'm always very happy when it happens no matter who it is that changes their eyesight for the better. As far as the budget is concerned, we can see that in the budget proposal it is about the billion that it expresses the desire to give more. I assume that it is not a question of what came about after the press conferences from the Government, but of what was given more to programme actions in 2020. In particular, it has been pointed out from the Public Employment Service that the problem has been that, due to the chaos that has been experienced, people could not be assigned to the programmes and actions that exist. It has very clearly called for better governance and more resources for the administration itself. It is not so difficult to understand, I think, that if you have a situation where people are dismissed and quit themselves, and where you do not know how to act, it will also be difficult to assign to the various programmes that exist. When it comes to alternative plans, if Martin Ådahl has not managed to google or looked at Parliament's website, I can send over the motions that we have in this area. I think that is easier than I will do it in the two seconds remaining of my speaking time.
i-60fa296f155a828a-725	Mr President, I would like to I would like to see a little more than two seconds spent on the alternative plan. For I have Googled your plans, Ali Esbati, and have not found them. You are therefore welcome to express in a few sentences how the Left Party thinks that this employment agency, which for so many years – despite the efforts of all the good employment agencies and many successful local projects – has not, on the whole, actually provided jobs. You're welcome to say something more. On the other hand, I would like to say that the Left Party sometimes, perhaps influenced by its own internal ideological debate, speaks of another reality out there. Therefore, I would just like to ask: have the Left Party and its representatives missed the reality in which we in the Center Party have been opposing the closure of offices for five years? However, when, after the January agreement, we continued with the failed digitalisation and office closure, we made it very public and clear that we wanted a new management of the Employment Service, including a new Director-General. Has the Left Party missed the little bit that happened earlier in the year? Incidentally, I fully agree that this has been a failed policy, but the continuation in two years' time – to reform it – is a completely different matter.
i-60fa296f155a828a-728	Mr President, I would like to No, I have certainly not missed the surprise that the Center Party has shown about the effects of its own policy. I didn't. The Left Party's view of the Employment Service, briefly: We want a comprehensive public employment service that is able to lift people and that is capable of interacting with other social services in order to offer people just the help they need. It should focus not primarily on strict control and punishment, but on seeing the people who are in need, and it should have the opportunity to meet them and talk to them. Job intermediaries should also have the opportunity, time and resources to keep in good contact with the local business community. We know that it is when it works to do what is the job of the Public Employment Service – not to have a job in the drawer that is presented, but to ensure that in collaboration with society and the unemployed find good places where people can grow instead of being pushed down.
i-60fa296f155a828a-730	Mr President, I would like to In each person there is a need to feel fellowship with others, take responsibility and develop as a person. That is why labour market policy is about more than socio-economic efficiency in public finances. It is also about ensuring that everyone gets a chance to develop their abilities. The Christian Democrats want to see a society that is just taking advantage of people's opportunities and innate abilities. Jobs are created when individuals find it worthwhile to start or develop a business, realize an idea and risk their savings. Four out of five new jobs are created in SMEs, which is why it is important that initiatives and creativity are encouraged in society. This is done, for example, through a good education system and a good business climate. Creating the best possible soil for increased employment is one of the most important tasks of the policy. Mr President, I would like to The government's goal was for Sweden to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. The budget we are debating today applies precisely to 2020, and the government has realised the fact and has chosen to leave that objective. In 2019, Sweden is in 24th place, according to Eurostat. So in five years, we've lost 14 positions. But this is not really about abandoned objectives or how to interpret statistics, it is about people. Behind the fiasco and behind the figures there is far too much alienation in our country. Many find it systematically difficult to get a foothold on the labour market, while there is a shortage of labour in an increasing number of sectors. The employment gap between native and foreign born is marked. Another group in difficulty in the labour market is young people with a lack of education. The costs and risks of hiring a person with a lack of experience or short training make it difficult for many to get that first opportunity. It'll take new ways to get to work. Lower thresholds are needed, and increased driving forces are needed to get companies to dare to hire. The fact that the labour market does not work for the most vulnerable groups is actually one of Sweden's biggest social problems. It is quite clear that thousands of new jobs with low or only basic training requirements would be needed, but Sweden belongs to the EU countries with the lowest proportion of such jobs. In order for more people born abroad to get a job to go to, for more children to see their parents go to work and for more young people without work experience to get a first chance, the risk and cost of hiring must be reduced. In order to improve integration and young people's opportunities and to ensure that more and more people can move from grants to work, we have proposed a simplified form of employment – entry jobs – for newly arrived and young people up to 23 years without a secondary school degree. I'll give more people the chance to learn the job at work. The salary amounts to 70 per cent of the current collective wage in the industry, and 30 per cent of the working time is estimated to go to learning the job. The parties to the Swedish labour market have now agreed on their labour market reform – start-up jobs. The government, together with the Centre Party and the Liberals, has chosen to support the parties' proposals and is now funding a start-up of this in the budget proposal we are debating. Start-up jobs mean a lower wage cost for companies through the removal of employers' contributions and a lower salary sum, which the government then covers for the employee. The target group is the same as for our reform, that is, new arrivals and the long-term unemployed. The Christian Democrats in government had made the entry jobs a reality by now, but that was not the case. We therefore believe that the agreement on start-up jobs now concluded by the parties is actually worth examining. However, we will closely monitor the implementation and outcome of the form of employment. It is essential that such a new structure in which the State pays out the subsidised part directly to the employee does not open up to fraud. Should the start-up jobs not prove to work in practice, we will push for the introduction of entry jobs, which we basically consider to be a wiser construction. Mr President, I would like to People basically have their own responsibility to become Employable and seek work, but employment intermediaries have an important job in supporting, matching and coordinating job seekers with employers around the country. It is clear, however, that the current structures of the Employment Service are not adapted to today's labour market or the problems we face. A better functioning employment service is important to improve employment and to match, in particular, those furthest from the labour market with jobs. We Christian Democrats maintain that reform of the Employment Service is an absolute necessity, but such an important reform cannot be achieved without ensuring that a robust control system is in place. We therefore welcome the fact that the government and its co-operation parties changed the timetable and that they also withdrew from designing a system based entirely on the Freedom of Choice Act. It is a system that would risk creating an uncontrollable situation. For the Christian Democrats, it is important that the regulatory framework is tight. There must be strong quality criteria and a solid competence in terms of both control and follow-up. Operators shall be measured and ranked according to results. We believe that the state should continue to have responsibility for labour market policy and the establishment of newcomers, but there are so many examples of municipalities that have shown that they have the capacity and ability to get newcomers to work more quickly. They should therefore be given greater responsibility for new arrivals' job creation. So there are still issues here where the government needs to return to the Riksdag in the usual form. Mr President, I would like to Policies can and should do a great deal to create both better conditions and stronger incentives for older people to stay longer in work. One objection to encouraging more older people to remain is that they would stand in the way of young people who want to enter the labour market. However, there is nothing to suggest that the labour market works that way. On the contrary, different comparisons between OECD countries and US states show that with a high employment rate among older people there is also a high employment rate among younger people. The number of jobs is not fixed but increases when more people want to work. We in the Christian Democrats propose in our budget option a new tax reduction for those who are 69 years of age or older. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats, of course, suggest much else wisely in this area of expenditure, but since our budgetary option should be seen as a coherent package where some or some parts cannot be broken out and dealt with in isolation, our proposals are instead presented in a separate opinion. On the other hand, with regard to the AU4 report, I am in favour of the Christian Democrats' reservation 11 in paragraph 4, which relates precisely to labour market policy programmes.
i-60fa296f155a828a-743	Mr President, I would like to Working is more than just a salary. Being able to contribute and feel needed creates a self-realization and a community and gives people a purpose. It gives women economic freedom. It's the cure for alienation and involuntary loneliness. If all people had an equal opportunity to get a job, we would not have had to have this debate today; the state would not even have had to have this spending area in its budget. The objectives of liberals in labour market policy are clear: everyone should have equal opportunities to work and to be self-sufficient. However, for this to be achieved, untimely laws must be phased out, regulations simplified and labour law made more flexible, and it must be cheaper for companies to hire. That is why all these important changes are now being made within the framework of the January Agreement. Mr President, I would like to However, I would like us to raise our eyes and talk about all those people who are in too bad a position and whose results are often cemented in an alienation characterised by low self-confidence, where skills and life dreams are lost. It is in this exclusion that freedom is usually at its lowest, and that is where society's efforts must be at their greatest. I would particularly like to address the work situation and exclusion of persons with some form of intellectual or physical disability and of persons born outside Sweden. These are two groups which, taken together, dominate the number of unemployed in the Employment Service and are categorised as particularly vulnerable. In a two-tier labour market during a booming boom, these two groups, in particular, lack the ability to get a job. The exclusion of these hundreds of thousands of people from the labour market not only creates segregation and exclusion, but is also devastating for Swedish economics. Mr President, I would like to What these two groups have in common is that they are marginalised in the Swedish labour market. They have few things in common, for example when it comes to their needs in order to get a job. It is strange, against this background, that some of our labour market measures are allowed to pit these groups against each other. In this connection, of course, I am talking about Samhall. Samhall is an actor who has been an invaluable support for many people over the years. The business has been constructed by offering meaningful tasks which would otherwise never be considered profitable in a competitive market. Samhall's activities have been made possible by public funds. It goes without saying that it can only offer non-marketable tasks if it does not compete fully in the free market. Although the Liberals are a market economy party, we have supported the concept because of the positive effects it has had on people far from the labour market. Today, however, the situation is different. Samhall's profit requirements have increased, the instructions have been refined and the company competes with companies on the regular market. At the same time, public funds in the billions continue to roll in every year. When Samhall changes its marketing strategy, the target group also changes with regard to employees. When the requirements are raised, Samhall must recruit more competitive staff. Lack of clear directives and follow-up have led to a degree of arbitrariness and ambiguity regarding the instructions of the Public Employment Service to Samhall. Of course, this development cannot only be burdened with Samhall. The owner of the state, that is to say the government, is also responsible for the development, as I pointed out earlier today when the committee called Samhall's CEO for a report. According to a report commissioned by the Liberals from the Parliamentary Investigation Service, half of Samhall's employees are people born outside Sweden – newcomers who often find it difficult to get a job because of language confusion. This means that Samhall will have a favourable workforce that can compete in the regular labour market while the government can trim its unemployment figures. The structure testifies to a human view characterised by low expectations, where language is included and lack of professional experience is seen as a disability. I want to be very clear on this point: we Liberals will never accept that language confusion is considered a disability. Of course, some of the new arrivals have some form of disability at Samhall, but it all falls to their absurdity that the number should be as large as half the target group at Samhall. More people born abroad are currently in need of labour market intervention and training, but Samhall's work is not only wrong for a job seeker who needs language learning, but also for people who really need sheltered employment at Samhall. Mr President, I would like to I am not referring to this because I am misappropriating new arrivals of a labour market effort. On the contrary, I address the question because I know how important it is for integration that people who come here get the right education and work to get into society. The tragedy is that, in parallel with this evasive effect, training places for shortage professions are left empty and sfi classes may be closed down, despite the fact that almost all sectors are now crying out for labour. Being sent to Samhall because of matching problems instead of being offered regular work, competitive language teaching or a professional programme is not only a waste of people's time but also of society's resources. Mr President, I would like to Samhall's activities may be profitable, but it must never be at the expense of those who give Samhall its raison d'être. I am therefore pleased that, together in this House today, we are taking joint responsibility for the fact that Samhall can once again become a refuge for those who need this in order to be able to work on equal terms. I therefore support the committee's proposal that the Parliament announces to the government that Samhall's activities will be reviewed and that the company will return to its core mission. We do this to show that equal opportunities often require different efforts, so that Sweden can become a country of opportunity even for those who currently lack the conditions. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to support the Liberals' reservation 2 in the AU4 report. With this, I would like to wish the President, all the office staff of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs a really happy Christmas and a government-free and peaceful Christmas so that we can really enjoy it in the coming weeks!
i-60fa296f155a828a-769	Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of the committee's proposal, but I also support the specific opinions that we have made. I will give a background to this. Mr President, I would like to We cannot turn a blind eye to the dualization of the Swedish labour market. Over the past year, and especially in recent months, I have been privileged, as politics calls, to travel around the country. There have been many sunshine stories and many stories about small companies finding new skills from a person who may have been new arrivals or long-term unemployed and about small towns where development is reversed and working very hard to open up the labour market. But there have also been many meetings with the unemployed who are desperate and who, after so many years of prosperity, did not get a job. There are many foreign-born unemployed who are desperate after so many years in Sweden, so many efforts and so many different programs. Many times they have asked me to do something! Please, do something! Don't just let this go on! ..................................................... Three quarters of the unemployed – a quarter of a million – are vulnerable unemployed at the peak of the boom. A majority of the unemployed are born abroad. As researcher Andreas Bergh stated today, it takes 16 years for half of the refugees who do not have a high school degree to get a job – 16 years before half of them get a job! It is a wall between those who have and those who do not have jobs in Sweden, and that is what drives inequality in Sweden. This was noted by the long-term investigation when they presented some of their conclusions yesterday. Mr President, I would like to We cannot turn a blind eye to this reality. It is clear that many of these people are low-skilled, and we need to do everything to strengthen their skills. That is why we have negotiated with the government to strengthen Komvux, AVX and the University of Applied Sciences. You have to be able to learn your whole life. You have to be able to study higher up in your age. But, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that education cannot be our only solution. All adults who have not gone to college and universities, all who do not have upper secondary school skills, all who have not finished full primary school, we cannot put on the school bench year after year. It can't take 16 years before you finally get the chance to work for real. Then we cannot turn a blind eye to the walls for which we are responsible in this House. We cannot have among the world's highest taxes on hiring low-income people. We cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that we have, in principle, the smallest proportion of jobs in the Western world without educational requirements, what is very simplistic and falsely referred to as simple jobs, because they are often difficult to do. 50 000 or perhaps 100 000 jobs would be created if we had a situation more similar to that in Germany, Denmark or the Netherlands. Although we are a typical economy with very large structural change, where almost half a million jobs are created and half a million disappear each year, we have a very sluggish labour market with a very bureaucratised labour law. Unfortunately, small companies do not dare to recruit others than the ones they are most sure of. We cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that, despite skilled and committed employees, the Public Employment Service and, I would like to stress, brilliant local initiatives only provide jobs to an extremely small fraction of the unemployed. In addition, after a long boom with hundreds of thousands of vacant posts, we have a job agency which, despite all the efforts, does not provide jobs. Then we must dare to do something about it. We must dare to break this wall so that we can start to counter the rise in unemployment that it will be during the recession. Then we must dare to see what has worked in Sweden and in the rest of the world. We need to see what those countries are doing that are based on 3 – 4 per cent unemployment during the boom instead of 6 – 7 per cent as in Sweden. Sweden must be given a new direction, and with the January agreement we are beginning to reduce the barriers to finding work. We are cutting taxes to hire those who are new to the labour market. They will not have to pay employers' contributions for two years with the start-up allowance, in addition to the compulsory old-age pension contribution. It's a powerful drop. We are broadening the parties' start-up jobs, which several have been involved in here, so that they also reach the non-collective small businesses. It is small companies that create four out of five jobs in Sweden. We are broadening support for the staffing industry, which is recognised to be good at creating jobs for those who are born abroad. Finally, we are modernising and liberalising labour law, including the rules of rotation, and reducing the cost of redundancies for personal reasons. We do this in order for more people to have the courage to hire, while at the same time strengthening competence development. Ideally, we want the parties themselves to come up with a solution to modernise it. In that case, we'll take it. And, yes, we need to reform the Employment Service so that it works throughout the country. We need to bring in the independent, idea-based, private intermediaries who, in any case, meet very tough quality requirements. There have always been ideas about this. From our side and everyone who has wanted to reform the Public Employment Service for real is the view that they should be able to come in and convey and be rewarded according to results. Anyone who helps an unemployed person who has the toughest starting point of ever entering a job should receive the highest remuneration. We cannot just accept, as we do today, that people are moving from action to action. This help should be available throughout the country. The unemployed should be able to meet both authorities that make decisions and provide support, not least for people with disabilities, and also the more efficient intermediaries throughout the country. There must be an end to centralisation, as we discussed earlier, which has affected so many parts of the country. In this way, we must gradually open up the labour market. Then the January agreement will not be enough. We need to break the deadlock in the suburbs. Then it is not just a question of breaking gang violence with the present police and the rule of law. It is also a question of giving a dream of a future so strong that those who toil, aspire and create, not those who steal and threaten, can dominate the areas and recruit young people. They can build on a dream created by brilliant schools, owned homes, port codes that work, garbage cans that are emptied, urban planning that is made for people and businesses and ultimately jobs and entrepreneurship. None of these efforts will solve the problem of the dualisation of the labour market individually, but together they can do so. Then we can start breaking the division. Then we can give the unemployed who are fighting so hard an honest chance to get a foot in. Then we can give the growing companies that I've met a chance to hire more. Then we can have a real work line in Sweden in the future. But then you can't swerve here and there in every little populist gust of wind. Then you cannot slip into the ditch without making alternative proposals. Then it takes courage. It is a courage that we must be able to show, because we cannot leave the unemployed in the lurch.
i-60fa296f155a828a-789	Mr President, I would like to The European Commission annually evaluates the economic development of all EU countries. This year's report states that the Swedish labour market is strong. We have the largest proportion of employees in the EU, and the Swedish model is highlighted as an example by the European Commission. Unemployment has fallen significantly, including youth unemployment, and gender gaps in the Swedish labour market are among the lowest in Europe. The overall employment rate in Sweden is 82 per cent. No other EU country has had such a high employment rate during this millennium. Mr President, I would like to We have a lot to be proud of, but of course there are also big and serious problems. We are now leaving a boom behind and the economy is slowing down after a few years of strong growth. A major challenge is now, and will be in the future, that many companies and many actors in the public sector find it difficult to find the right skills. This is an area where we will have to work very hard for a long time to come, not least if we are to ensure that the public sector is able to deliver public services to the whole country. The labour market is changing rapidly. Digitisation, automation and globalisation mean that jobs will disappear or change. That is why we need to invest in people's skills development throughout their lives. Another extremely important challenge is to lower the thresholds into the labour market for those groups which are currently far from working. In recent years, many people have fled to Sweden from threats, violence and war to seek a better future here. Now it is up to all of us to create the conditions for them to be integrated into Sweden and our labour market. Overall, the Government proposes nearly SEK 1.3 billion for more to be equipped for work and for better integration, a continued expansion of the Knowledgelift and an active business policy. Finally, I would like to highlight the investment in development time in this budget. It is one of many initiatives to meet the skills and livelihoods of the future. With a labour market undergoing strong change, it is our responsibility to offer many people the opportunity to acquire knowledge in the middle of their working lives and be able to take a step aside. A stagnant labour market is the last thing Sweden's economy needs, and that is why this is an investment in time. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal.
i-60fa296f155a828a-798	Mr President, I would like to An environmental party in labour market policy is a bit like an atheist on the bishop's bench. We are discussing on the basis of completely different conditions, and frankly I wonder what reality the Green Party is living in. At the very end, Karolina Skog entered the development year, i.e. the single largest labour market policy effort made by this government, at a cost of 1 billion. Now we are told that this is being done to facilitate the transition in the labour market and, above all, to fill the country's shortage professions. I have asked the Minister for Labour a number of times, for example, and have never received an answer to the obvious questions. If it is a question of filling up the shortage professions, can Karolina Skog list all the shortages that can be completed within the period of development year, i.e. three to twelve months? Can Karolina Skog give all those examples? So far, we have not received a single example of a shortage profession where you can be trained in three to twelve months. But I look forward to the answers I receive today. If it is about filling up the shortage professions, because it was so Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin justified it, why is there not a single focus on shortage professions in the government's proposal for a development year?
i-60fa296f155a828a-802	Mr President, I would like to There's no alexander. We live in a moving time and in a reality that is characterised by globalisation, automation, digitalisation and new demands on the labour market, there is no one solution that spells out the skills that Swedish companies and Swedish welfare will need tomorrow. A series of measures will be required. One of the environmental party's basic ideas is belief in diversity. We also believe in individuals and in man's ability to see for himself solutions that are good for him. I find it difficult to see what is so provocative about a measure that is about offering time. What distinguishes this labour market measure from others is that it gives something more power to individuals to identify for themselves the step they need to take during their working lives. Otherwise, it's quite similar. It's about education. There will be clear counter-requirements and fairly well regulated what to do with your time. We have a huge number of good employers who help their employees further. But we also have many employees in Swedish companies who say that they do not get the right help from their employer. To them we want to offer an opportunity to move forward and give them the power to decide which step to take. That is what this measure is about, and I do not understand how it can be so incredibly provocative for bourgeois politicians.
i-60fa296f155a828a-807	Mr President, I would like to The environmental party's basic idea is that no one should have to work at all. I have to ask the obvious question again because the Green Party has justified the year of development at a cost of 1 billion by filling the country's shortages. In other words, what are the shortages in which you can complete a training course within the time frame of the year of development? Mr President, I would like to I didn't get a single example. I have to admit, it's quite provocative. We're talking about 1 billion. Speaking of the importance of a more equal labour market: how does Karolina Skog view LO's position on this? According to LO, over 700 000 people are missing permanent jobs, many of them women, and they are left out of this proposal. You miss those who are insecure in the labour market. How do you defend it?
i-60fa296f155a828a-811	Mr President, I would like to I also note in the social debate that several trade unions, representing many of the employees in the Swedish labour market, welcome our efforts, precisely because they see that there are quite large groups that are not getting the right help from their current employers to move forward. They are therefore in danger of remaining on the move of the labour market. I want to stand by them and offer them several opportunities, of which development time is one. No one has claimed that this solves all the problems. This is not about those furthest from the labour market. This particular measure is about helping people in the middle of working life. This will be a good tool for many and will strengthen the Swedish labour market and increase mobility. I'm proud of that.
i-60fa296f155a828a-813	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. It is people's hard work – employees' and entrepreneurs' – that has built and builds Sweden's competitiveness, prosperity and welfare. On a regular Tuesday, like today, about 4.3 million employees in Sweden go to work. At this late hour, many of them have also had time to go home for the day. It is these people who, through their work, make sure that Sweden is one of the world's best countries to live in. It is the assistant nurse who helps the elderly to take a shower and look nice in the hair. It's the engineer who's taking a new order. It's the police investigating a burglary, and it's the sheet metal worker who's laying a new roof. It is all these people, all working people, teachers, programmers, doctors and restaurant assistants, and their efforts that make Sweden the country we are. Madam President, I would like We are facing an exciting time. The labour market is changing rapidly. This offers great opportunities for a country like Sweden. New technological shifts, digitalisation, automation, robotics, a necessary green transition, demographic development and globalisation mean that the labour market and conditions for entrepreneurs and employees are shaped and developed. We see how our jobs and tasks change. Sweden should be the best in the world to seize the opportunities of digitalisation. We have good conditions for this, because we are a country with a well-trained, technology-friendly and connected people. Our greatest asset to make use of the possibilities of conversion is that Sweden has a good conversion capacity, that the Swedish model basically means that we can quickly reset and take advantage of the new opportunities that come with the development I have just pointed out. Madam President, I would like The key to safety in conversion rests on four important legs. Firstly, we need strong unemployment insurance that provides financial security between work and waiting for a new job. Secondly, we need a training system for education, training and lifelong learning in order to meet future compensatory requirements and to enable people to take up the new jobs that are emerging in the economy. Thirdly, active labour market policies are needed to equip people, to match and to ensure that we prevent and prevent people from falling into long-term unemployment. Fourthly, strong, independent and responsible parties are needed in the Swedish labour market, namely trade unions and employers. All of these four legs are important for ensuring security in transition and for us to be a successful country in the future. I'd say they're the key. Everyone must be given the opportunity to develop throughout the world of work and to keep up with the new knowledge requirements of the various professions and the labour market as a whole. We have initiated a new knowledge boost that is expected to cover approximately 100 000 training places in 2022. The transfer of knowledge has enabled more places to study in higher education institutions, universities of applied sciences, folk high schools and regional universities of applied sciences. This gives people a chance to be able to train to get a new job, retrain, stay in their job if they want to, gain higher education qualifications or further train for better career opportunities. While people want to develop and have the opportunity to do so, the opportunities for both the public sector and the business community are strengthened in terms of the skills they need to develop their activities. Skills provision is a focus area for the government's new industrialisation strategy and also a priority area in the important regional growth efforts or regional growth policies. Madam President, I would like Active labour market policies are important for our adaptability, as I mentioned. Based on knowledge of future and current skills needs in the labour market, labour market policies should equip job seekers with women and men, facilitate employers to recruit people with the skills needed and contribute to faster job creation. Therefore, the government proposes to add funds to the 2020 budget for labour market policy interventions. We invest in matching services so that more jobseekers in need of support to apply for a job can take part in efforts that increase their chances of getting a job. We invest in extra services and introductory jobs. Research shows that subsidised jobs, properly designed, are effective tools for getting the unemployed into work. Extra services and introductory jobs are also important for the long-term unemployed and newcomers to have a job and a link to the labour market. We want to see more and better labour market training. More jobseekers will be given the opportunity to improve their skills in order to get a job, and more employers will find the right skills where they have a shortage. We intend to introduce start-up jobs, as proposed by the parties, in order to stimulate employment for newcomers and long-term unemployed. We are going to introduce an intensive year for newcomers within the framework of the establishment programme to enable those who are particularly motivated to acquire language and professional skills quickly. We are going to introduce development time, which was recently discussed in a replica shift. For us Social Democrats, jobs always come first. I am proud of the efforts that we can present in the budget. As a Social Democrat and Minister for Labour, I will always want even more, but I am very proud of the information we have been able to give. More people will have the opportunity to have their own work and to have a livelihood and the freedom of self-sufficiency. This is central to our labour market policy. Madam President, I would like An active labour market policy requires a well-functioning authority that can interact with other actors that have an impact on the functioning of the labour market. Due to the drastic cuts made in the previous budget for the Public Employment Service, this has been a very tough year for the Public Employment Service. Many have been laid off, and many have left their work voluntarily. We are now providing funds to give Arbetsförmedlingen the opportunity to prioritise long-termness and at present avoid further reductions. I have recently given information on how the government intends to strengthen Arbetsförmedlingen's activities throughout the country. In the regulation letter for 2020, Arbetsförmedlingen will be tasked with ensuring an appropriate local presence. The signs are going up all over the country. Arbetsförmedlingen is also tasked with explaining how the authority ensures the necessary competence and effective support for people with disabilities. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about the important work environment. Everyone deserves a safe and secure workplace, and no one should be harmed or ill at work. The Government's work environment policy should contribute to a working environment that prevents ill health, prevents people from being excluded from working life and prevents accidents, of course. During the previous term of office, the appropriations for health and safety at work policy were increased by more than SEK 100 million annually. This has meant that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has been able to employ more than 100 new occupational health and safety inspectors. In next year's budget, we propose an increased effort on inspection activities, this time focusing on more inspections to prevent death accidents at work. It's a bitch that people die at work. No one should have to die on their job. Today, so far this year, it is on average one person a week who dies at work in Sweden. I would like to say that nothing but a zero vision can apply to fatal accidents at work. Every death is a failure for us in this House, for the employer and for society at large. We are now expanding efforts against fatal accidents with more occupational safety inspectors and inspections and assignments to the Swedish Work Environment Agency to produce analyses and knowledge base. We are increasing the fines for companies that commit serious occupational health and safety offences, to name but a few measures. I am not ruling out further measures. No one should have to die at work. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to highlight and emphasise the importance of active work environment management. We live in a time where we have greater time pressure and increased delivery requirements at work. Tasks should be solved much faster than in the past and often with fewer resources. It is important that this does not lead to increased ill health or accidents. The employer is always responsible for the work environment at the workplace. The employer is responsible by law for planning, managing and controlling the work environment. In addition to the responsibility of the employer, other actors also have an important role to play. The trade union safety representatives and also the state have an important role here. After the turn of the year, I intend to put a proposal on Parliament's table to give greater access rights to regional safety representatives. I know that many of you, like me, are very concerned about the developments that we have seen with an increasing number of fatal accidents at work and also an increase in working life crime. I hope that you will support this important proposal. The Government's strategy for health and safety at work will contribute to a more sustainable working life and increased well-being at work. In close consultation with the social partners, I will start work immediately after the New Year to discuss the future strategy on health and safety at work, which will apply between 2021 and 2026. We shall have a working life and a working environment where everyone can feel safe, safe, development and, not least, job satisfaction.
i-60fa296f155a828a-845	Madam President, I would like There are quite a few issues in which we need to demand responsibility and advice from the Minister for Labour regarding labour market policy, not least regarding the January agreement parties' experimental workshop around Arbetsförmedlingen. That is also the reason why we now regularly call the Minister for Labour to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to report on the new and sometimes completely contradictory information that is being given. We will undoubtedly have to come back to this issue quite a lot during this parliamentary term. I have two other questions. The first concerns the government's own target for unemployment, i.e. that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. Now we have the EU's fifth highest unemployment rate. Behind this failure for the government is, of course, hidden much suffering and frustration among those who stand without jobs and self-support here in Sweden. In view of this objective, which is no longer valid, I wonder: does the government have any other target for unemployment that it wants to share with this House and ultimately the unemployed? Are there any other goals and ambitions following the failure of the EU's lowest unemployment target? My second question concerns reduced taxation on labour. This government has abolished the military tax but refuses to reduce the tax on labour for low and middle wage earners. I would like the Minister to develop the moral reasoning behind that very thing.
i-60fa296f155a828a-849	Madam President, I would like Mats Green has asked me on several occasions about the government's unemployment case. It is gratifying to be able to say that we used it as an important steering year during the last parliamentary term. With the January agreement and the agreement we reached between the four parties, we have not set ourselves an objective in this way. That's what it looks like. The second question that was asked concerns the tax on labour. In this respect, I would like to say that some of the things that we agree on in the January agreement, and which I think will be very important, are that we should eventually start work on a new tax reform for a new time.
i-60fa296f155a828a-852	Madam President, I would like I have heard this answer before. But perhaps it is not an answer, in other words that the government had this target for unemployment as a steering year. But there was nothing of it at all. Now they say you have ambitions. But can we then have an account of what these ambitions and goals consist of? It may not be a very unreasonable issue when it comes to unemployment. In particular, this is not an unreasonable issue for those who are outside the labour market. The government therefore has no quantitative targets in this context at all. Finally, as far as the defence tax is concerned, yes, it is stated in the January agreement that the defence tax should be abolished. It is perhaps worth its own fair and discussion, and it may be that the Left Party will get into it. But there is nothing in the January agreement that prohibits the government from reducing taxes most for those who earn the least. Again, one can think a little bit about the government's moral entry into this.
i-60fa296f155a828a-855	Madam President, I would like It can be said that we are in a situation of historically very high levels of employment. We have an increasing participation rate. But there are a number of challenges that we need to address. Among other things, we see a slowdown in economic activity. Then it is important that we jointly take responsibility, both the government and of course the Swedish parliament, to ensure that we have the tools in place to meet this slowdown. We know that one major reason why many people today are out of work is, among other things, the lack of education. We have a situation where about 75 per cent of the job seekers enrolled in the Employment Service are far from the labour market. An entry ticket to the Swedish labour market today is that you have an upper secondary school education. Among other things, we need to take joint responsibility for this.
i-60fa296f155a828a-856	Madam President, I would like I wasn't going to bring up the defense tax. But I am reminded that the Left Party proposed to the Moderates that we could break the defence tax out of budgetary management if they wanted to vote against it. But the Moderates didn't want that. It might be good to know. I was going to raise the issue of the working environment. The Minister mentioned in a good way that a work environment that prevents ill health and accidents is an important issue for the government. I think it is. However, I can say a few things that we know are the basis for increased risks to health and safety at work. Perhaps the government's policy does not point in the right direction. As far as labour migration is concerned, we know that there are people who are exploited and end up in very dangerous work situations. It has been signed in the January agreement that it does not want to change the rules that apply now. With regard to long entrepreneurial chains which may lead to unclear responsibilities, I do not know whether the government has any intention of changing policy. With regard to the type of employment that we know gives rise to increased occupational health and safety risks – precarious jobs that give quiet jobs where discretion prevails – the government has rather signed up to the January agreement that it really wants to do the opposite of modernising the labour market, even if it is called modernising it. So we want a development with more insecurity for the employees. I really wonder how the Minister thinks this is going to be connected, that is to say, the view that one has on the working environment and what one now chooses to go about in terms of labour law and security in the labour market.
i-60fa296f155a828a-862	Madam President, I would like First of all, we need to make a real effort to combat labour crime. We need to ensure the work that several authorities do jointly in carrying out inspections – I myself have been out on such inspections and seen how it works – against unfair competition and against crime in the workplace. It's a very important effort. We need to ensure knowledge and competence about health and safety at work. What I have heard when I am out meeting many trade union representatives and employers in the workplace is that it is not really more legislation or regulation changes on the political side that one wants to see first and foremost, but that it is primarily about creating a safety culture. I intend, as I said, to come back with proposals regarding the access rights of regional safety representatives. I believe that this is a very important measure to prevent people from being exploited and to ensure that no one should either be harmed or die at work. Then it may possibly be that we talk past each other. I didn't quite understand the connection. What we agree on between the four parties in the January agreement is to review labour law. We've set up an investigation into labour law. But we have also said that if the parties agree and make their own proposal, that is what we will proceed with. It is about the fact that we already have a very flexible labour market today, but that it is possible for the parties here to come up with new proposals. Basically, it is also a question of maintaining the balance between trade unions and employers. It is an important part of the wording of the January Agreement.
i-60fa296f155a828a-866	Madam President, I would like Regional safety representatives are good. We have been asking for this for a long time, both in motion and in interpellations. I am pleased that this proposal comes. However, it is regrettable if the Minister for Labour sees no connection between the security of employment and the work environment. I believe that this connection is very strong. It is also well documented in research. The wording of the January agreement clearly points to the fact that the balance that it claims to want to maintain will not be maintained if it is followed. It has also enabled us in recent days to see the enormous convulsions that have resulted from this in LO and PTK, when they have had to negotiate under this kind of political pressure. I still wonder how the Minister for Labour views the link between the deterioration of labour law and the security of those who work.
i-60fa296f155a828a-871	Madam President, I would like Of course, there are risks if people are insecure in their jobs. We see, for example, that in the workplaces where we have a large proportion of foreign workers who are not familiar with the Swedish protection rules, the risk of workplace accidents and fatal accidents is also significantly higher. It goes without saying that this type of connection exists. As far as Ali Esbati is concerned, if safety issues are concerned, we obviously need to have a working life that provides both security, development opportunities and adaptability. This applies not least from what I talked about earlier – the rapid change that is taking place in the labour market today. It is not only about creating security in employment but also security in transition.
i-60fa296f155a828a-873	Madam President, I would like People with disabilities are a group that the Minister for Labour has said he wants to protect. That is an objective that I really share. But how the government intends to increase support for this group, I find it a little more difficult to follow. Today, for example, too few employers take the step and employ people with disabilities. Unfortunately, this also applies to workplaces in the public sector. Madam President, I would like I would like to know what proposals the government has to make to change this. And what about the government's support for the integration of work into social enterprises, which currently provide some 9 000 people with work, work training and rehabilitation? The Christian Democrats are providing funds so that more of this type of company is emerging. We believe that they lower the thresholds into the labour market for certain groups of job seekers, who may not have had a job for a very long time. As I said, it is more unclear what the government really thinks of this type of company. I would like answers to that.
i-60fa296f155a828a-878	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the important questions. We will be clear in the regulation letter that will be decided on Thursday that, when it comes to people with disabilities, it is important that the Public Employment Service ensures that there is competence to support these groups. As far as the continuing work on the Employment Service is concerned, the reform that is to take place has not yet begun, as the House is certainly aware. In this work it is important to listen to the disability movement. Two weeks ago I had invited myself to a round table where I gathered important actors within the disability movement but also non-profit and idea-based organizations. It is important that we ensure a labour market policy that can give the right input to the right people. It is also important to use the skills and commitment of ideas-based, non-profit organisations and social enterprises. Precisely what it will look like, we will have to come back to when we begin the reform work itself. Already after the New Year, we will have to have a lot of important road choices discussions. I look forward, among other things, to coming to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to explain this and to listen to questions that may arise there.
i-60fa296f155a828a-882	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. I think there is a need for a little more of a holistic approach around the group of disabled people. Perhaps it is not just the reform of the Employment Service that should be included in it. With regard to the type of activity that I specifically asked questions about, there is nothing to prevent the Minister from taking action now. As I believe the Minister is well aware, the committee has today agreed on a proposal for an announcement concerning a review of Samhall's activities. It is important that the specific target group that Samhall exists for – people with physical and intellectual disabilities – get the best conditions. What we have been critical of is that the target group for Samhall's activities has been broadened. The forthcoming announcement relates precisely to the need for a review in order to ensure the completion of the basic mission.
i-60fa296f155a828a-884	Madam President, I would like I have taken note of the committee's proposal for an announcement that the government should review Samhall's mandate. I will, of course, come back to the matter if the House so decides. I would like to add one thing that has been important: we have been able to say that we are raising the ceiling in the wage subsidy. It is also an important measure to ensure that more people with disabilities get into work. I look forward to continuing to discuss these key issues in order to ensure that people with disabilities are really in the best position to acquire their own work and livelihood with the freedom that comes from it.
i-60fa296f155a828a-887	Madam President, I would like In a debate on the labour market and working life, it feels extremely relevant to raise such an important issue as the work environment. This is a subject that we have discussed and debated this year, but it is also an issue that concerns many people. Therefore, we will treat it frequently until we have a better and safer working environment for our workers. The development of fatal accidents continues in the opposite direction to the government's so-called zero vision. Last year we had an amazing figure of 58 deaths, one death a week. In January we had nine deaths, the largest in ten years. The increase in the number of fatal accidents has to some extent been recognised, and that is a good thing. However, the negative trend continues, and new concrete measures are now needed that really improve the situation. The current efforts are clearly not sufficient. Factors that are well known, for example, are that authorities do not interact with each other. Police and prosecutors have too little resources to investigate occupational health and safety crimes. The limitation period for work environment offences of normal grade and serious work environment offences is too short. The Swedish Work Environment Authority itself admits that there are no clear targets in the area. We Moderates have proposed in our committee motion a doubling of the limitation period for normal and serious occupational health and safety offences. The Moderates also add four times more than the government to the police and prosecutors, which will benefit the work environment. We want special supervision of the psychosocial working environment in occupational groups with high absenteeism due to illness to be added. We Moderates also spend 3 billion more than the government on resources for health care, school and care so that those who work there will have more colleagues. An improved working environment requires a holistic approach with actions in several areas. The pit spray that now exists is directly devastating. It is certainly a major responsibility of employers, workers and trade unions, but not least also of the government. Current efforts are not enough, and new strategies will have to be presented. People's lives and health are at stake. Madam President, I would like Sons, daughters, parents, yes everyone should be sure to go to work and come back home. This is not the case today, and it is unacceptable. Workers should also be able to maintain their physical and mental health in their own workplace. Particularly worrying is the fact that reports of occupational diseases among women due to organisational and social problems have increased for seven consecutive years. This has not received the attention it deserves. Of course, health and safety-related diseases have major negative consequences for the individual, but they are also a socio-economic accident. It is important to continue improving the working environment in order to prevent ill health and accidents and prevent people from being excluded from working life, not least in order to enable a longer working life. A large part is in the public sector. Many of the professions that are struggling with a worse working environment have problems with staff shortages and opportunities for training. These are so-called contact professions, often women-dominated professions in publicly funded activities such as nurses, nurses, health and nursing staff or teachers. The professorship has now had enough and shows this through the fact that 15 000 nurses have gathered in a so-called nurse rebellion because of the poor working conditions within their profession. The government has major challenges in the area of health and safety at work. There are clear differences between women's and men's working environment, mainly due to the gender-segregated labour market. In women-coded sectors, the conditions for work and the working environment are significantly worse, leading to higher risks of ill health. There is also a greater risk of leaving employment as a result of ill health or dissatisfaction with working conditions. The deterioration of the working environment in women-dominated professions cannot be addressed solely through better preventive work environment management. Measures are also needed at central level and of an organisational nature. Given the high skill shortages in several welfare professions in the public sector, the conditions for employees there need to be improved, otherwise staff will not be attracted in the future. In the health and social care sector alone, more than 200 000 employees are needed before 2026. There is a connection between weak psychosocial work environment and illness with mental diagnosis. It can also be noted that many of the professions where employees experience shortcomings in the psychosocial working environment are in publicly funded activities. Nurses, midwives, specialist nurses, nursing staff and primary and secondary school teachers are particularly vulnerable. Madam President, I would like Deaths must be reduced, but the physical and mental working environment must also be improved. Anything else is unacceptable. Before closing my speech, I would also like to mention Samhall and its activities.
i-60fa296f155a828a-908	Through Statskontoret's report, this is supported by changes in the composition of persons. Now there is a lower proportion of persons with physical and intellectual disabilities and a larger proportion of foreign-born persons within Samhall. Cleaning has become the dominant task, and it requires a high level of physical and intellectual capacity. This means that people who were previously in the business are now excluded from Samhall. Work capacity has increased, and people in need of support have decreased in their activities. The Swedish National Audit Office is critical of the lack of transparency within the operations, and there is a lack of clarity as to what disabilities people within Samhall have. We Moderates have proposed in our committee motion a review of Samhall. It is therefore a good thing that the committee has united and unitedly proposed an announcement to the government on this. That concludes my speech. Finally, I would like to wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-60fa296f155a828a-913	Madam President, I would like A well-functioning labour market that takes advantage of people's skills and willingness to work is the basis for Sweden's welfare. Everyone who can work should work, contribute and take responsibility. I want to spend my six minutes focusing on people with disabilities. These have also been touched upon by previous speakers. Madam President, I would like People with disabilities are needed in the Swedish labour market. They should be able to participate in society and working life on the basis of their conditions. Everybody's gonna win. People's skills and experiences are needed and should be taken into account, regardless of whether the person has a disability or not. It creates the conditions for independence and self-determination. Madam President, I would like The Swedish labour market is stronger than in many years, and both the employment rate and the participation rate are historically at high levels. However, for people with disabilities the same positive development is not taking place. Too many people with disabilities are outside the labour market and have a higher unemployment rate than the rest of the population. Last year, when the Employment Service was forced to pull the emergency brake as a consequence of the M-KD budget with severe cuts in AF's appropriations, the situation of people with a relatively weak position in the labour market was also made more difficult. The employment services were forced to give notice of one third of the employees due to the cuts. According to the Labour Service's October expenditure forecast, AF has lost many SIUS consultants, who provide individual support to people with disabilities, as well as psychologists and social consuls, who have the task of supporting, coordinating and helping people who in different ways have reduced working capacity. Many of these services have been moved by AF to other activities, or they have been laid off or stopped on their own. Madam President, I would like The Authority has clearly stated that it is going on its knees and is largely incapable of doing more than it needs, i.e. complying with the law and paying grants, which has led to the suffering of help and support for people with disabilities. Madam President, I would like We believe that it is fundamental that responsibility for disability issues in labour market policy continues to lie with the Public Employment Service. It is therefore a good thing that the Government intends to give the Authority the task of presenting how the Authority ensures the necessary competence to provide effective support to people with disabilities in the regulation letter for 2020. It is important that labour market policy has a strong focus on enabling participation in working life on equal terms. This can range from adapting the workplace to providing financial support to an employer who hires a disabled person. For persons with disabilities, for example, subsidised employment or wage support targeted at this group can play a major role in enabling entry into the labour market. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say, speaking of the question raised earlier, that the government has made a lot of efforts to strengthen the opportunities in the labour market for people with disabilities. An important part of this work is that the government has carried out a review of the regulatory framework for subsidised employment. On 1 July 2017, the Regulation on special measures for persons with disabilities with reduced working capacity entered into force. The regulation has clarified the regulatory framework for, among other things, wage subsidies and has given a clearer focus on the ability of all individuals to develop their work capacity. In 2017, the Government appointed the Flex Job Investigation to review whether there is a need for more flexible efforts to improve opportunities for people with disabilities to get to work or retain a job. The study concluded that no changes in the regulatory framework are needed as the regulatory framework already allows for flexible action. The government has also raised the ceiling for the basic wage cost of subsidised employment aimed at disabled people. On 1 April 2019 it was raised to SEK 19,100 per month, and on 1 January 2020 the ceiling will be raised to SEK 20,000 per month. The January agreement states that the government will work to improve opportunities for jobs, a good life and a meaningful leisure time for all with different forms of disability. More will have to be done. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about Samhall. Since 1980 Samhall has played an important role for many people with different types of disabilities and for active labour market policies. Samhall has been a bridge to working life and an important player for people with disabilities who have reduced working capacity to be able to work according to their abilities. Samhall's mission is unique and is a result of the Swedish model where the state and the social partners are helped within well-defined limits. Madam President, I would like We know Samhall's operations are, of course, not problem-free. Therefore, we see the need for development and change in Samhall's operations. We believe that Samhall's employment should be aimed primarily at people with a reduced working capacity so that they cannot find another job and whose needs cannot be met by other labour market measures. Samhall's core task of making room for people who are very far removed from the labour market must not be undermined. We Social Democrats are therefore in favour of the committee initiative to review Samhall's basic mission. We share the view that Samhall should be there for those who, due to disabilities, are far from the labour market. Madam President, I would like For us social democrats, accessibility is about us wanting to shape a society where everyone sits and where everyone's power can be harnessed. Persons with disabilities should not be prevented from participating in the different parts of society and in working life. I therefore call for the proposals in the AU4 and AU2 reports of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. I wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year and thank you for your cooperation.
i-60fa296f155a828a-936	Madam President, I would like I realise that I am the last in the order of speaking. Perfect, I thought when I saw it, then I can account for the fact! Joking aside, exclusion is still one of Sweden's biggest problems. Labour market policy is crucial here, both in problem formulation and in terms of the solution itself. I know this because I have grown up both in poverty and in exclusion and know what it means in reality. Madam President, I would like Sweden has long been the world leader in the share of GDP financing active labour market policies. I think that the Swedish labour market debate rarely dwells on this fact and asks whether our rather large financial commitments actually have the desired effect. Despite a prolonged boom, we have major problems in the labour market. Unemployment among foreign born children is four to five times higher than among natives. Many industries are struggling with skills supply problems, and foreign-born women's labour force participation remains under criticism. Now that we are in a slowdown and are moving towards a probable recession, it is particularly important that we make the necessary reforms to equip and match the unemployed for the future labour market. It is simply not reasonable that we do not get currency for all the investments we make in labour market policy. This is why, among other things, the Center Party has stubbornly and consistently pushed for us to be able, within the framework of the January Agreement, to implement a historical transformation of the Swedish labour market – a transformation that goes far beyond a reform of the Employment Service. Madam President, I would like When I was new to the labour market, I had to apply for 601 jobs before I was given a chance. 600 no and 1 yes. It was a yes that changed my life and, by extension, led to me standing here today. But is it really going to take 600 no before you get a yes? No, of course it cannot be, at least not according to a center party. That is why we are now making a strong effort in the 2020 budget towards an effective labour market policy to tackle the problems of dualisation in the Swedish labour market. One of the most important initiatives is the sharp reduction in employers' contributions for the long-term unemployed and newcomers, the initial deduction, which will be in place on 1 July 2020. The aim of the initial deduction is to make it more attractive to employ people who are not established in the labour market or who have been outside the labour market for a long time. The reduced employer's contribution will apply to salary and other benefits up to SEK 23 500 per month. In particular, the initial deduction will cover young people who are new to the labour market and who lack higher education, the long-term unemployed and newly arrived with a residence permit. Of course, that is not all. For 2020, together with the government parties and the Liberals, we have contributed a total of approximately SEK 1.3 billion to help more people get to work. Individuals should be given the opportunity to acquire knowledge and experience needed in the labour market while facilitating the supply of skills to employers. More will be able to start and run businesses, and the competitiveness of the business community will be strengthened. Madam President, I would like In the debate on the future labour market, there is a great focus on the reform of the Public Employment Service. It is a debate that is largely fragmented and not entirely fair. In fact, many people forget that our moderate and Christian-democratic colleagues stood here, in this House, last December, defending, with emphasicity, a sharp cut in the work of the Public Employment Service. It was a reduction that, together with the Authority's own renewal journey, resulted in the chaos whose consequences are central to the debate today. Let us remind one another of this one day that this cause, connection and effect has a different order from what they should have. Madam President, I would like There is one area of labour market policy that rarely receives the attention it deserves, namely labour market training, even though we spend billions on it every year. There is quite a consensus that labour market training has problems and needs to be restructured and made equal. As is well known, the shortage of skilled labour is high in many sectors and sectors. Nevertheless, participation in vocational labour market training is at the same level as in the 1960s when the system was built up. In addition, seven out of ten seats are held by men. Women are, instead, expected to have their conversion training, such as health and social care training, within the regular education system and thus have to provide most of the student funding themselves. In other words, society pays more for men's conversion training. By enabling the Public Employment Service to assign unemployed people to training courses in the regular education system, in the same way as for contracted labour market training, both capacity and gender equality in labour market training can be increased. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to talk about the importance of the transition and the development of skills. The labour market is changing rapidly today thanks to technological development, methodological development, globalisation and increased skills requirements. As many as 2.5 million jobs risk being knocked out by automation and digitalisation over the next 20 years. Even more people will face completely new skills requirements. We must all get used to the idea of lifelong learning. The training we received in our 20s and the experience we have gained is not always enough to keep up with the development. Changing a career in the middle of life is becoming more common, and much indicates that it will continue to do so. It is an area that needs to be highlighted in the social debate, and I hope that we can all be constructive and forward-looking in finding the pieces of the puzzle that need to be put in place in the context of both labour market policy and education policy. Thank you for the floor and Merry Christmas!
