i-74ac1847d9210491-0	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Malm has asked me what concrete measures or sanctions I lifted and made it clear that Sweden is prepared to take – if the dialogue with the Iranian regime turns out to be fruitless – in my discussion with the Iranian Foreign Minister. The human rights situation in Iran remains very serious, as is the difficult situation for LGBT people. This is addressed in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' report on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Iran, published in April 2017. Questions about the protection and respect of human rights are central to Sweden's relationship with Iran. We are constantly working on these issues and addressing human rights in all our political contacts with the country. The importance of human rights, including the full enjoyment of these by LGBT people, was also an important part of my discussions with Iran's Foreign Minister Javad Zarif un der his visit to Sweden from 20 to 21 August. We had a frank dialogue in which I clearly expressed the Government's concern about the human rights situation in Iran. In addition to the bilateral dialogue, Sweden is also working continuously on these issues in the UN and through the EU to strengthen respect for human rights in Iran. It is important to mark against individuals and states responsible for human rights violations. In the EU, restrictive measures were extended in April, in the form of a freezing of funds and economic resources and travel restrictions, against persons responsible for serious human rights violations in Iran. Since 2011, the EU has also banned the export to Iran of equipment that can be used for internal repression and telecommunications surveillance equipment. There is also an international arms embargo on Iran. In order to be able to influence others, dialogue is important, including with countries that have a different approach from that of the Swedish government. Isolating countries that do not share our values is not a solution. D a Swedish government will continue to have a straight dialogue with Iranian representatives on the issue of the human rights situation in the country, including the situation of LGBTQ people. Sweden will also continue to be a clear voice for everyone's equal value in the EU and the UN.
i-74ac1847d9210491-7	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I welcome Ann Linde here as the new Foreign Minister! It is one of the finest, most important and responsible political offices in the country. I very much hope that in the future we will have a good dialogue – as we have had in the past – with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, so that Sweden can contribute more to promoting important values such as democracy, human rights and so on around the world. There are so many people out there who in different ways put their hopes in that countries like Sweden should be a clear voice. We must continue to be. I would like to thank you for your answer to my interpellation. When it was written, it was addressed to Mrs Wallström, who was then Minister for Foreign Affairs, and it had to do with the visit we had some time ago by Mr Zarif, who is Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Iran. It is important that Sweden highlights human rights issues – of course we are in complete agreement. We are, of course, in complete agreement, I would say, what the concept of human rights includes, in our view, in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to This is where it gets a little tricky, because Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde and I as a Member of Parliament and the vast majority in Sweden have a different view of human rights than the Iranian regime has. It goes without saying to us that LGBT rights are a human right, but that view does not share the Iranian regime, and especially the Foreign Minister who was here and who is still in favour of the death penalty for homosexuals. Mr President, I would like to The response of the Zarif Minister said: ..................................................... I would like a little clarification. Did the government explicitly mention LGBT rights during talks with the Iranian Foreign Minister? Or did the government feel that this was involved, as it were, in a broader definition of human rights? This is a very important distinction, Mr President, because it is important for a regime such as Iran which does not recognise that homosexuals are covered by human rights that we explicitly mention the LGBT rights in the talks. I would therefore like clarification as to whether the government really did so. Of course, I also wonder whether the government explicitly condemned the death penalty imposed on homosexuals by the Iranian regime and hanging homosexuals from cranes. It is among the most barbaric punishments that people can be subjected to.
i-74ac1847d9210491-13	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your good wishes, Fredrik Malm! I'll do my best to live up to expectations. As I said, Sweden continues to demand that Iran respects human rights. In addition to having bilateral contacts, we are working systematically and continuously on these issues through the EU and the UN in contact with Iranian representatives. It can be repeated that Sweden addresses MRs in all political contacts with Iran. We will continue to be clear and have a frank dialogue with Iranian representatives on the human rights situation in the country, including the situation of LGBT people. I can answer the question directly from Fredrik Malm : Yes, we explicitly raised the issue of LGBTQ people. They cannot be open with their sexual orientation, and their existence is officially denied. Same-sex relations are subject to severe punishment in Iran, from beatings up to the death penalty. Of course, all of this is serious enough, although it is unusual for the death penalty to be imposed. The widespread use of the death penalty in Iran, including the death penalty for minors, is at all very worrying. The EU is a driving force in the abolition of the death penalty, and there we on Sweden's side are very active. As far as our position on the death penalty is concerned, it is well known. It is inhuman, cruel, irreversible and contrary to human rights. We therefore condemn the application of the death penalty in all its forms. The number of executions in Iran fell by about 50 percent in 2018 following a revised legislation limiting the application of the death penalty in drug-related cases to only the most serious forms of drug crime. The death penalty previously imposed but not carried out is now being reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
i-74ac1847d9210491-18	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. I very much welcome the fact that Sweden explicitly mentions LGBTQ people's rights and that it is not simply lubbed so that it falls a little by the side. As far as the overall issue is concerned, we are of course in complete agreement; a country such as Sweden must be able to engage in dialogue even with regimes that are rough-handed and undemocratic. Of course, we want to try to influence countries. It was in the light of what I asked my question in the interpellation. If it turns out that the dialogue and the talks you conduct with the regime are not going anywhere – if Iran, for example, continues to put electroshocks under the soles of dissidents, execute homosexuals and commit tremendous repression against its population – what is Sweden prepared to do then? If the dialogue does not lead anywhere, we must have an answer to that. Do we want more sanctions? Do we want to take some other kind of action? Do we want to increase our support for the democratic opposition? What do we want to do? If we put all our hope in trying to influence a deeply dictatorial regime for the better and it turns out to lead nowhere, we must be able to take other measures. Mr President, I would like to I do not feel that I received any real answer from the Foreign Minister to that question. Therefore, I can ask it again: What does Sweden do if the dialogue with the Iranian regime does not lead anywhere? This is, of course, extremely urgent at the moment. Repression in Iran does not tend to decrease. Although the number of executions has decreased, repression in the country is extremely brutal and widespread. It is in practice an apartheid system against women. Minorities, in fact all residents, are subjected to very severe persecutions. There is barbaric punishment in the form of stoning, people are hanged by cranes in the main square of cities and you do not listen to the protests of the outside world. People have been arrested for very long periods of time with extremely brutal torture. All torture is bad, but Iranian torture is terrible, such as in Evin prison in Tehran. There is no sign whatsoever that the dialogue alone, which Sweden cherishes so much, really leads anywhere. It is, in itself, important, but it must also be looked at in the foreign policy toolbox for other tools to use against the Iranian regime. Mr President, I would like to The Foreign Minister mentions the various sanctions that have been imposed on individuals in the Iranian regime. That is very true. They were introduced in 2011, with the help of the former alliance government. But they don't apply to any politicians. And it is politicians who could change the draconian legislation in Iran with widespread persecution. The sanctions apply to people with links to the military and so on. It is very good that they are subject to the respective measures. But there are not many politicians on the sanctions list. I don't think it's anyone.
i-74ac1847d9210491-26	Mr President, I would like to I have no other opinion than Fredrik Malm as to how terrible the death penalty, torture and what is happening to dissidents in Iran are. But the question is what to do about it. I mean, unlike Fredrik Malm, that it has played a role in the fact that there has been great pressure, not only from Sweden but from the whole of the European Union, on the death penalty, for example. It is no small matter that the death penalty has fallen by 50%. A very concrete thing that we have done is that the Prime Minister and myself, when we visited Iran in 2017 with a delegation, handed over a long list of union representatives who were imprisoned. During this visit, we learned that most of those people have now been released. It is also not just sanctions against individuals. It is also about the EU's important ban on the export to Iran of equipment that can be used for internal repression and telecommunications surveillance equipment. Does it help if we are said to have a policy of isolation instead? Once you've had isolation policy, it hasn't helped. Rather, it has made the human rights situation worse because there is no pressure. It is when there has been a dialogue that some improvements have been seen. The human rights situation, as I have repeated several times, is extremely serious even with a reform-friendly government in place. However, if there were to be an even more conservative government in place and the country would be isolated, I think that the situation of LGBT people, women and trade union and political active people, for example, would be worse because the conservative forces are even more actively fighting the issue of human rights. I think it is better to have a somewhat more reform-friendly government than an even more conservative government, as is often the case with isolation. I would like to take this opportunity to raise the issue of discrimination against women and girls. It is also one thing that we constantly raise in the dialogue with Iran.
i-74ac1847d9210491-33	Mr President, I would like to I listen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and am struck by the banal way in which the dialogue-oriented approach of the Swedish Government towards Iran is opposed to having some kind of total isolation of the Iranian regime. I'm not in favour of that. I have not seen any strong voices here in favour of a kind of total isolation of the Iranian regime. Mr President, I would like to On the other hand, I feel that dialogue is given much greater opportunities than it does in order to actually contribute to change. The main contradiction in Iranian politics is not if a government is considered more reform-oriented or more conservative. The major dividing line in Iran is between the regime and the population. A small fundamentalist clique of the population is a regime that persecutes tens of millions of Iranians every day. If you consider the present Iranian Government to be reform-oriented, you should be aware that the Foreign Minister who was here, and who our Foreign Minister regards as a reformist, only two weeks before he came to Sweden, responded directly to a journalist's question that he believes it is right to execute homosexuals. I cannot see that it is particularly reformist to want to kill homosexuals. It is a terrible value, which testifies to a barbarism and tyranny that we cannot remain silent about. Nevertheless, I believe that this debate will continue in the future.
i-74ac1847d9210491-37	Mr President, I would like to As I have said several times, Sweden's position on respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law is clear. We repeatedly criticise Iran for its shortcomings. In addition to the situation of LGBT people, this concerns, for example, the application of the death penalty, discrimination against women and girls, trade union rights and the lack of respect for the full enjoyment of human rights by minorities in Iran. I would like to conclude by once again underlining the seriousness with which I regard the situation of LGBT people in Iran. We, and I, will continue to raise this issue with Iran on a regular basis. Change requires dialogue. Unfortunately, I believe that the situation of LGBT people in particular will take an enormous amount of time to improve in Iran. But I cannot see the alternative to what it is now: that, besides having sanctions, which we have through Europe, we also have a dialogue. If we are to be able to influence, we must also be able to point out things that we think are unacceptable behaviour or unacceptable laws, for example against LGBTQ people. I would like to thank Fredrik Malm for my first interpellation as Foreign Minister about the rights of LGBT people. It's a question I've been working on since the '90s, and I feel very strongly about it. This means that I hope that Fredrik Malm can believe me when I say that I take this very seriously and really take it up in the dialogue.
i-74ac1847d9210491-41	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad has asked me what measures the government intends to take so that all pupils, including those with dyslexia, have a chance to pass the national tests, and what concrete measures are being taken in the form of a change in the school law or instruction to the school authorities that the government intends to take to solve the problem of all pupils not being allowed to use aids during certain stages of writing national tests. Let me begin by stating that the school law is clear that all students have the right to the guidance and incentives they need to develop as far as possible according to their own circumstances according to the objectives of the education. Pupils who, as a result of their disability, find it difficult to meet the various knowledge requirements that exist shall be supported with a view to counteracting the consequences of disability as far as possible. One way for the school to be informed that a student may need additional adaptations or special support is through results on the national tests. It is therefore important that students are given the tests in a way that enables them to demonstrate how their knowledge and abilities relate to knowledge requirements. For some students, this means that the tests need to be adapted in connection with the implementation, for example by extending the test time. The National Board of Education is responsible for the national tests on behalf of the Government, and in its information on the tests, the National Board of Education points out that such adjustments must be based on each student's prerequisites and that it is therefore not possible to establish generally which adjustments are to be made in different cases. S on support, there are instead examples of adaptations in the teacher information to the respective exams. The Swedish National Agency for Education also stresses that it is important for the school to make adjustments so that the test still tests the knowledge and abilities that each part of the test intends to test. Work is now under way to digitise the national tests. The mission given by the Government to the Swedish National Agency for Education is to strive to ensure the availability and usability of the tests for all students, including students with disabilities, in order not to limit pupils' ability to demonstrate their knowledge of the test situation. In this context, I would also like to mention that the Swedish National Agency for Education is now working on proposals for revised course and subject plans, including to make knowledge requirements less comprehensive and detailed. This creates the conditions for more accurate and equivalent ratings. It also reduces the problem that a student can get a lower grade just because individual details of the knowledge requirements are not met, which can be problematic for students with certain disabilities.
i-DXdu6v3pU7xADUBnEfF9Vp	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Education Anna Ekström, for the answer to my interpellation! Liberals are very concerned about the situation regarding support for those pupils with special needs who are currently not getting the right help and sufficient help in teaching during their schooling. This is particularly true of a situation as important as that of writing national tests, which take place on three occasions: in grades 3, 6 and 9. In sixth grade and ninth grade, Mr President, it is even more important to have a chance, as I put it in my interpellation, to succeed in crediting the knowledge but also have a realistic chance of achieving the grades that all other students have. I have probably never been contacted so much and received so many reactions as during the period when I have paid attention to the issue compared to any other school policy issue. On the Education Committee and as a school politician, I work with all the questions. But this has certainly involved many schoolmen and parents. I say that honestly to the Minister for Education and Mr President. Many individuals have also contacted us about private situations to tell us about shortcomings. This concerns general shortcomings in the school's support for their children, but in particular shortcomings in the support if you have a disability. Specifically, we have also heard about what is the theme of this interpellation, i.e. reading and writing difficulties. During the summer, before the opening of the Riksdag, the Liberals tried to draw attention to the problem by sending a letter to the Minister. The interpellation response is in principle consistent with the letter we received from the Ministry of Education. It is essentially a question of digitising national tests. You also review the course and subject plans. My question to the Minister for Education is whether she and the government believe that digitisation of the national tests will solve the problem that some students – in this case those with dyslexia – cannot have certain aids. My second question remains: Does the government consider that the revised course and subject plans of the National Agency for Education, the Ministry of Education and the Minister's own authority, will lead to a situation, perhaps from next autumn, when we no longer have examples of students who feel discriminated or overlooked? From being used to having the right to various aids during regular schooling, everything can suddenly only be taken away when it is time for the national test. We are very concerned about this development. Liberals do not believe that neither the digitisation of the national tests nor just the revision carried out by the Swedish National Agency for Education will solve the situation. I regret that, but our assessment today is that this is not enough.
i-74ac1847d9210491-53	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Roger Haddad, for the questions. Like Mr Roger, I have a great deal of experience in the fact that this issue is genuinely involved. Over the years, I too have had contact with many parents and teachers who are really involved in the matter. Like Roger Haddad, I have had several contacts with the Dyslexia Association to discuss the issue. What I want to convey with my answer is that this is a question in which we try to do several different things. I would like to emphasise the work done by the National Agency for Education to digitise the national tests. This includes, in particular, that the Swedish National Agency for Education will try to develop ways to digitise national tests so that pupils with different functional variations can come to their own in the test situation. I believe that there are good opportunities to go further down that road. If Roger Haddad's question is whether I can promise today that what is being discussed in the interpellation will be dealt with in full, then my honest answer is that I cannot judge it today. We will see this when the digitised national tests begin to come into place. It is also the case that the work that the Swedish National Agency for Education is doing to revise course and subject plans may have a bearing on the issue. On Roger Haddad's very sharp question as to whether it will solve exactly the situation described in the interpellation is once again my honest answer that it is too early to judge that matter. I'd like to send a question back to Roger Haddad. What we are discussing here are the national tests, which are available to support the grading in grade 6 and grade 9 and to support the assessment of students' knowledge development in grade 3. National tests have so far been organised in such a way that they test pupils' knowledge and abilities in relation to knowledge requirements. I would like to ask Roger Haddad whether he has proposed changes to the knowledge requirements in Swedish. Does Roger Haddad want to change the description of reading comprehension in the knowledge requirements? And does Roger Haddad, in extension of his question, want us to stop assessing students' reading comprehension in elementary school?
i-74ac1847d9210491-58	Mr President, I would like to The liberals maintain that the knowledge requirements and reading tests are fixed. National tests, which are almost the only way of assessing the equivalence and quality of school performance and development at national level, are also solid. But it is therefore sad and troubling when some students are not given the opportunity to be fully tested as other students. I have taken note of the government's response to the interpellation, but also the appendix I received to a letter last summer on this issue. It is true that the Vice-Chancellor can decide to provide students with aids and various types of support in connection with national tests. However, when we have caved a little on this issue in the summer, Mr President, it has turned out that this is not so common, and once you do that, that part of the final assessment does not count. I have talked to several people, special educators and special teachers, who attest to the fact that in many cases it is simply not reported that part if a student in grade 6 has taken the reading test with aids. The second thing that I find regrettable is if students are excluded from doing this element. There is such a possibility for the National Agency for Education. As a school politician, I would rather not have that opportunity activated. As stated in the Minister for Education's answer, these students must receive this stimulus. We're talking about high expectations. I don't think the student will be stimulated or psyched if you say: You don't have to do this, because you have reading and writing difficulties. I think it's giving the wrong signal. But these students need the technology and the means. I suppose this is a problem that several countries may have, and they may have solved it. We should therefore look internationally at how the reading test has been solved for students with dyslexia, for example. Mr President, I would like to Although the interpellation is about students with reading and writing difficulties, I would like to take this opportunity to say that during the spring and summer, when I highlighted the question, I had told me that this applies generally, that there are general shortcomings in the support for students with disabilities. Many of the pupils who during normal schooling in the classroom have assistive devices do not bring them along in connection with the test situation. And it is even more important that it works in connection with the national tests, Mr President, when both the government and the Liberals and the entire school policy go in one direction where the results of the national test will be even more effective and even more important in grading students. I have, of course, contacted the Swedish National Agency for Education before the debate and talked to the highest responsible, who has a preference for interpretation when it comes to national tests. Their assessment, at least today, is not that the review of the course and subject plans would resolve the issue. They are not finished with the review, but their message in August was that the measure itself will not solve the problem. I still hope that the government can take new steps to find a solution.
i-74ac1847d9210491-63	Mr President, I would like to It becomes a bit contradictory when Roger Haddad says that we should retain demands for reading comprehension in the knowledge requirements in school, that we should retain national tests that test the ability in relation to the knowledge requirements that exist and that we should retain a system where the national tests are given in such a way that they support the grading. It is precisely this relationship that makes the issue complicated. Roger Haddad usually annoys me that I refer to Jan Björklund's various actions and his responsibility in education policy. But Roger Haddad may still forgive me if I quote something from the answer to a question that Jan Björklund received from the Riksdag during his time as Minister of Education. He wrote clearly: a student cannot listen to a text in a test instead of reading it, because he has not tried the ability to read with flow. However, there are other ways of providing support to the student, for example, the student can get longer test time or the sample can be divided up on several occasions. We also have the opportunity to ensure that students in accordance with the Swedish National Agency for Education are allowed to write tests with larger text. But the difficulty lies precisely in the fact that in our knowledge requirements and in our curricula we have a requirement for students to learn to read with flow. We also have a requirement for the national tests to test students' ability in relation to the knowledge requirements. I am indeed the first to admit that this is a really difficult issue. This is a difficult issue for many students, for many parents and for many teachers and principals who are in a position to carry out what we in Parliament and the government have told them to do. They deserve our strong support. I will follow this matter closely. But I still find it very difficult to see how a solution can get around the fact that in our syllabuses – as Roger Haddad here says so clearly and clearly that he is there and wants to remain – we have a requirement that students learn to read with flow and show their reading ability. I hope that we will get a bit on the way with the reviews carried out by the National Agency for Education and with the digitisation of the national tests. I also hope that together we will be able to give support to the school's people, so that they can really get the strength and the resources needed to explain to parents and students that a national test in grade 3 is not rating supportive. It is also a great opportunity to discover different types of needs that students have and that can lead to students receiving support in school in the future. In our school, we will ensure that the national tests are taken into account especially when grading. But as Roger Haddad is very well aware, it is ultimately the teacher's assessment of the students' knowledge and abilities in relation to the knowledge requirements that determines how the grades are set. All parents and pupils should know that the teacher has the last word in the grade, although the results of the national test should be taken into account. Mr President, I would like to I was very pleased with the letter I received last summer from Roger Haddad on this matter. I would like to recall that I closed the reply with the hope that we could meet and discuss these issues. I hope I did not delete that wording at the last minute. In that case, that wording will come back again, because here Roger Haddad and I have a common interest. We want to ensure that students in Swedish schools learn reading skills in a good way. We want to ensure that the knowledge requirements are reflected in the national tests. We also want to ensure that all students can demonstrate their abilities and knowledge in a fair and good way.
i-74ac1847d9210491-69	Mr President, I would like to I am proud of the school reforms that Jan Björklund carried out and not least the knowledge-oriented school that he pushed through for many years chased and criticized by the Social Democrats. I have no problem with that policy. Even the school minister and our school authorities don't agree on this. That is why, in my interpellation, I asked whether instruction to the school authorities might be appropriate. The special educational school authority thinks one thing about this specific issue when it comes to dyslexia and national tests, while the National Agency for Education lands in a completely different legal and educational assessment. Since the Swedish National Agency for Education has a preference for interpretation according to the instructions, it is its answer that applies. So far, I accept it. But in order to go further and listen to how SPSM, which is an expert authority when it comes to students in need of support, I still think the government should in any case take the ball that we here deliver from the Liberals and try to find a solution that way. There must be opportunities. It sounded a bit like you were wondering, ‘ Is Roger Haddad prepared to lower the standards so that we can get these students through? ' No. Not any mother or father, organization or anyone who has contacted me on this issue has demanded that we politicians lower the bar and the requirements. Let those students who have help in their regular schooling, in their usual mathematics or Swedish teaching, also use the same aids, for example, in connection with national tests but without being punished for it. That is my message and what I think should guide further discussions. Digitisation and revision of curricula do not solve this problem. Thank you for the debate.
i-74ac1847d9210491-74	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Roger Haddad, for the opportunity to discuss this important issue which is so urgent for so many! I am very grateful that I live in a time where dyslexia is not a punishment. I am very grateful to live at a time where children who have dyslexia can go to Swedish school and do not feel stupid like the case was often at that time when I went to school and even worse when my parents went to school. I am infinitely grateful for the work of the Dyslexia Association and a large and broad corps of researchers to strengthen our opportunities and conditions to give students with dyslexia the best possible support to pass the school in the best way possible. We know and fully agree, Roger Haddad, that those students who receive the right support should have every opportunity to get through the Swedish school. I hope, despite what Roger Haddad says, that we will get a bit on the way when it comes to the digitisation of national tests. I hope that we will come a long way when it comes to the revision of curricula and subject plans, although Roger Haddad wants to dash my hopes on that point. I also hope that we will be able to make sure that at school we get what I think is the most important thing for our teachers, special educators, principals and student health to be able to provide the students with the support they so badly need. These are good opportunities to prepare and carry out the national tests. It is important to provide good information to pupils and parents about what the tests should test and what the meaning of the tests really is. I take Roger Haddad's extended hand and I am happy to continue the discussion to ensure that we can ensure that the Swedish school really gives the support that every student needs. We have come a long way in ensuring that children with dyslexia receive the support they need. But we still have a lot to do. Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to discuss this urgent issue.
i-74ac1847d9210491-80	I would like to welcome the Minister. The questions will be answered by Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, Minister for Environment and Climate Change Isabella Lövin, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi and Minister Åsa Lindhagen. An issue shall be of a general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-74ac1847d9210491-83	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a growing problem with electricity capacity, especially in our metropolitan areas. In the spring, the company Pågen, which is Malmö's largest private employer, shrunk its expansion plans. This was simply done because the electricity system in Skåne is not enough. Yesterday, the Government left its draft budget for 2020. I read the energy section and can see that there are no political proposals there that could solve the electricity problems in either Skåne or other parts of Sweden. Furthermore, we have before us what I would say is a desired electrification of both the transport sector and industry, but it is a development that can potentially be threatened if the electricity problems are not solved. In view of this, Madam President, I would like to ask Minister Eneroth: in what way does the government intend to solve the increasing electricity problems we are now seeing in Skåne and other parts of the country?
i-QBE2G3e9ZS86oBuNZdUYqt	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Lars Helmered! It is true that this will be a challenge when we electrify the transport sector in the future. That's exactly right. We need to do this in order to achieve the climate targets, stand up for our commitments under the Paris Agreement and reduce emissions properly. But it is worth reminding you that today we are exporting about the same amount of electricity that would be required to switch the whole of the Swedish transport sector. So it is not that we are in a serious or alarming situation in Sweden; we have good access to not least renewable electricity. Then, of course, we must ensure that the capacity of the networks is increased, and investment is currently increasing tenfold. This means a substantial increase in capacity. It is true, however, that in the long term we need to review and prepare ourselves for the challenge of electrifying the whole transport sector.
i-74ac1847d9210491-87	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Energy said yesterday that we need more local electricity generation to meet the problems we see in Malmö and elsewhere. I note that the government has increased the tax on cogeneration, which has closed down local production. Many experts have condemned this as bad in the capacity situation we have. It hits Malmö and Stockholm in particular. There are environmental benefits to it, but there are capacity problems. Last night there was a new example of a company that cannot invest in Skåne, which is why I wonder: What does the government intend to do specifically to solve the electricity problems in Skåne and elsewhere?
i-74ac1847d9210491-88	Madam President, I would like It is not that we face any serious electricity problems – not even in Skåne. In addition, we are in the process of changing things in concrete terms. I want to remember that Lars Hjälmered did not really believe in the massive expansion of wind electricity we now see, but it adds quite substantial parts to Swedish energy capacity today. In the same way, we are actually making sure that we get new, local energy production with solar power support. So we're changing, and we're doing it hand-in-hand and tangible – not only in Skåne but all over Sweden. We are doing this for the sake of the climate, but also for the sake of competitiveness.
i-74ac1847d9210491-90	Madam President, I would like There is a crisis in the country's municipalities. Over a third of them expect to go with loss. Debt increases and taxes rise at the end of a boom. In Filipstad, people talk in terms of disaster- among non-European immigrants, unemployment is 80 per cent. A further 10% are in subsidised programmes, and the dependence on subsidies is huge. That is how it looks around the country, and I am sure the Secretary of State is familiar with the situation. The Swedish democrats have warned against this very thing while politicians in this House have been sitting with their arms crossed. According to SKL, it is now required SEK 33 billion to keep the municipalities alive, and according to the government's own forecasts, SEK 90 billion is required until 2026. Every penny and every penny is needed. The Social Democrats are therefore guilty of the answer: why is a single crown spent on abolishing the military tax when we have a crisis situation in the country's municipalities?
i-74ac1847d9210491-92	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Dennis Dioukarev. This government will always give priority to welfare, which is why we are now adding 5 billion more to the municipal sector in general state subsidies. At the same time, we are making proposals to strengthen the municipal cost compensation so as to ensure that we take account of the conditions of sparsely populated municipalities. For this government, rural areas come first. We must ensure that the municipalities in sparsely populated areas receive a larger share of the cake. The question therefore goes to the Swedish Democrats: What do the Swedish Democrats think about the equalization system? Are the Swedish Democrats in favour of introducing a strengthened levelling-up so that we actually redistribute resources from rich municipalities in metropolitan regions to those of the country's municipalities that have the lowest population base?
i-74ac1847d9210491-95	Madam President, I would like I do not think it is responsible to force municipalities to destroy their economy. That is what we have seen now, and that is the consequence of government policy. In fact, the SEK 5 billion in general government grants is 1 billion less than the government spends on abolishing the military tax. In plain language, this will mean cuts in school, health care and care. That is a shocking priority. Why does welfare not go before abolishing the military tax for the same politicians in the same chamber who put the municipalities in the situation they are now in?
i-74ac1847d9210491-97	Madam President, I would like Welfare comes first, and that is why we have clearly announced that general state subsidies will increase at a steady pace throughout the term of office. What has happened and which has had a negative impact on the municipalities is that, thanks to the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, this House voted through a budget for 2019 that meant considerable savings in labour market policy. It is Filipstad and other municipalities who take the bill for that cut.
i-74ac1847d9210491-98	Madam President, I would like My question to Minister Åsa Lindhagen is about the work against forced and child marriage. Until this year, at least 44 children have been taken out of Sweden against their will, according to new figures. They've been taken out of the country to be married to someone they've never met before. The figures are based on the number of cases for the national competence team's support phone, which is managed by the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County. These are terrible figures, but the number of darkness is probably even greater. Behind each number is a child who has been deprived of the right to his childhood. This is totally unacceptable. We know that there are major differences at municipal level between the efforts made in schools and social services to intervene and prevent cases of child abduction. There is a lack of a coherent policy. My question to the Government is therefore: what measures does the Government intend to take to protect the children at risk of being taken away, and what does it intend to do to reverse the trend?
i-74ac1847d9210491-101	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this very important question, Sofia Nilsson! Like Sofia Nilsson, this is a major problem. Every single case where we have failed to prevent a child from being taken outside Sweden is a tragedy and a major failure. What we have done so far is, among other things, to strengthen consular activities within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to see how we can work to ensure that people who have been taken outside the country's borders will return home to Sweden. But the most important thing is that we prevent children and young people from being taken out of the country at all, because it is much harder to work when we can no longer afford to work within our own borders. It is incredibly important to work with, among other things, knowledge-raising efforts. What are the signs that children live under honour and that there is a risk that they will be taken out of the country? That's where social services need to come in. We also need stronger measures to prevent children and young people from being taken out of the country.
i-74ac1847d9210491-105	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa, for your answer. I am delighted that the Government shares my concern about this problem, so that we can mobilise as soon as possible to work on issues related to honour-related violence and repression. We have this as a point in the January agreement, and we are waiting for an investigation. Nevertheless – pending an investigation – this is something that is going on here and now. I believe that the government should act more forcefully to put an end to this development.
i-74ac1847d9210491-108	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with that. We need to increase the possibilities for the authorities to intervene if there is a concern that children will be taken out of the country. It is our responsibility in politics to ensure that the authorities have these opportunities. It is also clear in the January agreement that we should make sure that we increase the opportunities for social services to take action even when parents oppose it. This is also a very important step forward. Children's right to protection and security must take precedence over parents' rights. The baby has to come first.
i-74ac1847d9210491-110	Madam President, I would like Emissions from the world's flying have more than doubled in the last 20 years. This is totally untenable, and it runs counter to the climate targets that we have set. One reason for this rapid increase is that aviation does not pay any tax on the fuel used. In addition to driving the increase in emissions, this means a subsidy of hundreds of billions of dollars. This tax exemption is laid down in what is called the Chicago Convention. Next week, I think, Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth will travel to the International Aviation Organization (ICAO) summit in Montreal, Canada. There is a chance to work towards the removal of the aviation tax exemption. This is it.
i-74ac1847d9210491-114	Madam President, I would like I very much appreciate the commitment to the signal that aviation must assume its climate responsibility. If we are to meet the challenge we have, all modes of transport must assume their responsibilities. For shipping and not least for the fleet, we have both taxes and other incentives as instruments. We work with biofuels and electrification, and so we have to do with aviation. This is about the transition to and introduction of biofuels, according to Wetterstrand's investigation. We also have exciting research on electric flights. We will also work internationally to change the regulatory framework and to enable the taxation of fossil aviation fuel. It is in the January agreement, so it is natural that in international fora – both in the European Union and at the ICAO annual meeting – I should like to make comments on changing flights.
i-74ac1847d9210491-116	Madam President, I would like I welcome this, but I wonder whether the Minister for Infrastructure could be a little more specific about the strategy of abolishing the aviation tax exemption. The Minister for Infrastructure says he's going to bring it up at the ICAO summit. That's very good. Has the Minister of Infrastructure also built up support, for example within the European Union, so that more countries are working towards the abolition of the aviation tax exemption? That's how we can get this through.
i-74ac1847d9210491-118	Madam President, I would like I think Jens Holm knows very well that this is a complicated issue. There are international conventions which are not easily changed. What I am going to talk about – and I am doing so both with European colleagues and at international meetings – is the importance of a change of flight. I see an increasing interest throughout the European Union. There are several countries where my colleagues are now taking similar initiatives as we are taking in Sweden with regard to aviation tax, introduction of biofuels and requirements for smarter landing routes to minimise fuel consumption. In fact, there are opportunities to change aviation.
i-74ac1847d9210491-121	Madam President, I would like It is said that Swedish gender equality should apply to everyone. Nevertheless, women born abroad have been overlooked in integration policy for far too long. The lack of a clear gender perspective has led to society not having the same demands and expectations for newly arrived women to establish themselves. This problem also highlights the Swedish National Audit Office's report on gender mainstreaming of integration policy. With this in mind, we Liberals tabled a proposal this spring to introduce a new interim objective for gender equality policy to strengthen foreign-born women in the Swedish integration process. A majority of the members of Parliament voted in favour of our proposal, which led to an announcement to the government. I am, of course, very pleased about this.
i-74ac1847d9210491-124	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Avci for the question and for constantly raising these issues in different ways. I fully share the view that we need a strong gender perspective, not least in terms of labour market policy and how we welcome people as well as possible to Sweden. There's an important job to do. Through the regulation letter to Arbetsförmedlingen, we recently decided that SEK 300 million will be used for more efforts, not least for foreign born women. This is an example of our focus on these issues, but we need to do much more. I am, of course, aware of Parliament's announcement, which came in in June. This is a very new announcement, and it is something that we will deal with in the future in the Government Office.
i-74ac1847d9210491-128	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for sharing the view that it is important to have clear efforts to ensure that women born abroad and not least newly arrived women who come to Sweden are given the conditions for establishment and eventually get to work and earn their own money. This is particularly important for economic freedom. I also welcome all the efforts now being made to strengthen the position of women in the labour market. However, I did not hear the Minister say clearly where the process is in order for this interim target to be implemented, so I repeat my question.
i-74ac1847d9210491-130	Madam President, I would like The answer is that the announcement has come in and that we will have to look at it and prepare it. That is where we are in the process. We will have to come back later, but I do not have a timetable for that and cannot say exactly when and how. However, it is true that Parliament's announcements are something that we have to deal with. This is, of course, an announcement that I know of and is on my table. We'll have to get back to you.
i-74ac1847d9210491-133	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mr Ardalan Shekarabi my question. A proposal for a revised cost compensation system for municipalities and county councils is now in place. A little simplistic can be said that the cost compensation is about allocating resources for municipalities and county councils to provide equal service regardless of conditions that are difficult for municipalities and county councils to influence. There have been criticisms from several metropolitan regions, especially from those who are losing out on the cost compensation proposal. Several believe that the proposal puts city against country.
i-LptgQDb7Qrtm8U2eztPPnd	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva Lindh, for the question! No, the cost compensation doesn't set city against country. It does not set Stockholm against the rest of the country. Stockholm depends on the rest of the country having equal welfare. Stockholm depends on the rest of Sweden having sustainable growth. It is the Government and Parliament's task to ensure that we redistribute resources to public welfare so that we can ensure equal welfare throughout Sweden. If we do not, the divides between country and city will increase, and in the end Stockholm will also be a major loser in this. Therefore, it has been very important to ensure that the proposal that the Government will soon put on Parliament's table takes into account the conditions that, among other things, the Stockholm region has. We have lowered the ceiling for how big the change will be, so that Stockholm will have the opportunity to adapt its operations to the new regulatory framework and so that the new regulatory framework will be introduced as the state grants increase through the Government's efforts.
i-74ac1847d9210491-140	Madam President, I would like Is this proposal enough for the economically very vulnerable municipalities, which are now going to get a little more in this system? Or will more efforts be needed to ensure that those municipalities and regions that are now having problems with the economy and providing this service to citizens really have the chance to give it?
i-74ac1847d9210491-141	Madam President, I would like The short answer is: No, it is not enough. It is necessary that we update and strengthen the levelling-up, there is no doubt about that. But the resources for the municipalities need to be increased. That is why the government has announced that the general state grants will increase throughout the term of office. But it is absolutely essential that we strengthen the levelling-up and ensure that the sparsely populated municipalities with the most difficult challenges have a greater share of the cake. It is only then that we can say that we are serious about the whole country living.
i-74ac1847d9210491-144	Madam President, I would like This year, democracy celebrates 100 years. But democracy is not something you have. It's something you have to work with every day, every hour. And I believe that it is under attack today, both internationally and in Sweden, that there are forces trying to restrict freedom of expression in our society. The most important convention we have is the Convention on Human Rights, adopted by the UN in 1948. It says that all people are equally right. When the SD, the Swedish Democrats, decided that the Pride Flag should no longer be raised in Sölvesborg, they do not live up to the Convention on Human Rights. Then we're under attack.
i-74ac1847d9210491-147	Madam President, I would like The Pride Flag represents an open and free society where people can be who they are and live in freedom and security. When we begin to falter on the question of the equal value of all human beings, we are dangerously out there. For me, it is frightening how the Moderates and Christian Democrats at the local level can accept that the flag is being hauled. This is not an isolated incident. It goes hand in hand with attacks on vulnerable people begging on our streets, against people who have fled for their lives and come all the way here to Sweden, who they want to live in caravans or not to settle at all, and against people who are engaged in praying on their work break. It has not for a very long time been so important to stand up for the equal value of all people as it is today, because it is serious now.
i-74ac1847d9210491-151	Madam President, I would like Yeah, it's serious. Therefore, I would like our Minister for Gender Equality and LGBTQ Åsa Lindhagen to tell the Assembly here what the government is doing in the LGBT area and perhaps a little what you are doing for young people who are in the position to come out as LGBTQ.
i-74ac1847d9210491-152	Madam President, I would like I think there's a difference depending on who's in charge. When the Swedish Democrats rule, the Pride flag is picked up. When we rule, we make a historic effort to promote LGBTQ people's rights. It is included in the draft budget that in the future we will develop an action plan that is about concrete measures for LGBTQ people, not least young LGBTQ people where we see that there is a great mental illness, a greater vulnerability to threats and hate crimes and to harassment at school. Among other things, we need to work with safe meeting places. We have a lot of work to do and we're going to take that job.
i-74ac1847d9210491-156	Madam President, I would like Emissions in Sweden are increasing. The Green Party says the climate cannot wait. Yet the government chooses to go forward with a doubling of the climate life, which has repeatedly been condemned as inefficient and expensive by experts. Our common resources are limited, and the time is short if we are to reduce emissions enough to keep heating below two degrees in accordance with the Paris Agreement. The moderates' starting point is therefore that climate policy should ensure that emissions are reduced as much as possible per invested crown. The Swedish budget is not infinite. Therefore, each crown is a priority. Like other policies, climate policy must be effective and deliver results. My question to the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action is therefore whether she believes that Sweden can afford to waste billions of money on inefficient projects and why she wants to double the cost of climate change.
i-R8GA3yjGajC8sqYRrS5U78	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Louise Meijer, for the question of cost-effectiveness! I would like to start by asking which experts have repeatedly condemned the climate issue. We make a continuous assessment of the climate life. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, our responsible authority, all the thousands of efforts made across Sweden will lead to significant emission reductions. When it comes to efficiency, all the experts agree on one thing: that the CO2 tax is the most effective instrument available in climate policy, that is, the fuel tax. Today, you announced to Moderates that you want to reduce the tax on petrol by one crown per litre from next year. Then I would like to ask Louise Meijer: what is the investment in billions in next year's budget? Is it an effective climate policy?
i-74ac1847d9210491-162	Madam President, I would like Question Time is a democratic instrument for us to be able to put questions to the ministers. But I didn't really feel that I got answers from Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin. She's asking me who's been judging the climate life. These include the Swedish National Audit Office and the Institute of Economic Development, so I assume that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Change is aware of this. Nevertheless, I have to ask the question: can we afford to spend 2 billion on ineffective reform?
i-74ac1847d9210491-164	Madam President, I would like We have to change the whole community. Then it's about making large, basic investments in redirecting to electrification, investing in making biogas of waste, making industries more efficient and allowing the housing associations to participate in the transition. This is exactly what the money for the Climate Q & A is going to do. The most effective measure, once again, to reduce emissions in the short term is to increase the CO2 tax. All our experts agree on that.
i-74ac1847d9210491-166	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Eneroth. In order for law enforcement to deliver the results that citizens expect, strengthening certain parts of the judiciary is not enough. All elements need to be strengthened in order to avoid bottlenecks. More police officers need to be complemented by more prosecutors and better conditions for the courts to deal with more criminal cases. In its claim, the Swedish courts have asked for a budget increase of SEK 550 million to deal with the expected increase in cases. This is what the government says no to, which means that the budget will be a quarter of a billion lower than what the courts are asking for. Instead, the government chooses to spend money on, among other things, a free year, a start-up allowance and an extra family week. Does Minister Eneroth see any problems with the under-financing of the Swedish Courts, or does the government make a different assessment of which resource supplements are necessary to deal with the expected increase in the target?
i-XDFvqpgMtucTo4hEgJJrWh	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Katja Nyberg, for the question! We are now making the biggest historical increases in the police and in the judiciary. We have turned a trend of cuts in police training during the previous parliamentary term. We have added resources and received more training, and now the police are coming out to work in Sweden. This increase is also followed by clear increases in funding for the judiciary, prosecutors and the Prison Service to be able to follow up and prosecute those who commit crimes in Sweden. We also provide resources for welfare in order to prevent people from falling into crime. Here are the Swedish democrats who have no answers. You're prioritising completely different things. You spent 20 billion on job tax deductions, and you cut back on climate ambitions. You have not been eager to give resources to the judiciary or to the welfare system, so you are guilty of the answer if we are to get order in Sweden.
i-74ac1847d9210491-173	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are able to do both. We are capable of both reducing taxes and giving more money to the entire judiciary. Today we have a crisis in society with widespread gang crime, unsolved crimes, overcrowded prisons and so on. It goes without saying that an investment in the police also requires an investment in the whole chain of justice. If there are not enough resources to judge criminals, they will not be able to lock them up either.
i-74ac1847d9210491-176	Madam President, I would like In the budget, we give priority to money for welfare, but also for the police and other justice systems: courts, prosecutors and prisons. These are important efforts. We also make efforts to strengthen people's participation in the labour market, such as a development year. I know what the Swedish Democrats are prioritising, and it has not been welfare. There have been clear tax cuts along with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. That is where you have put your great scope for reform in the past. So did you then, and you will continue to act.
i-74ac1847d9210491-179	Madam President, I would like Illegal choir schools have been a problem in Sweden for a long time. During the spring, Parliament issued an announcement to the government that illegal traffic schools must be stopped and that a general review of driver training should take place. The Government has now commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to, among other things, look at measures to prevent illegal traffic schools and to review the limitation of the number of permissions a person may have. These issues are low-hanging fruits, and it is very good that the government has taken hold of them. Last Friday I visited Kinna Trafikskolan at home in Mark's municipality and talked about these issues, among other things.
i-74ac1847d9210491-184	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Larsson, for the praise! It is certainly a good thing that we give the Swedish Transport Agency this task to get to grips with black driving schools. Many people are fooled into a driver's education that is not of the right quality. In addition, there is unfair competition against established drivers trainers, usually organised in STR. Ultimately, it is also a threat to road safety because poorly trained drivers are risking our lives on the road. Therefore, it is incredibly important to deal with the development we have seen with black driving schools. Of course, we also need to reform the whole training of drivers, and here the Finnish Transport Agency together with the Swedish Transport Agency has produced a proposal that many stakeholders have been involved in designing. Now we are preparing it and looking at what legislative changes are needed to make this possible. We also listen to STR and other industries' views on driver training.
i-74ac1847d9210491-186	Madam President, I would like I thank Tomas Eneroth for his answer. I am pleased that the government is giving this issue a high priority. What the Swedish Transport Agency should look at is low hanging and easy to fix in the near future. But it really needs to be actively worked on what we can do in the long term and with a view to the future. I am eagerly waiting to see what comes out to see how we can take it on and get a much better driver training.
i-74ac1847d9210491-188	Madam President, I would like I think we share this view. There are things we can do in relative proximity that still mean modernising driver training. At the same time, there are some exciting challenges with autonomous vehicles and digitalisation and electrification of the transport sector. However, let us not allow long-term needs to be an obstacle to taking action now against black driving schools and to limit the condition of supervisors and obtain a digitalised training protocol in driver training. I'm sure we're in complete agreement here. Sustainability of products and improved consumer protection
i-74ac1847d9210491-192	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Shekarabi. The Swedish Radio Science Radio reported last week that more and more products are holding ever shorter time. They are simply designed to wear out prematurely and break. Friends' refrigerators have broken after a few years while my grandparents' refrigerators from the 80's remained when they moved out of the apartment. I raised this issue last winter linked to the reversal of the burden of proof that applies to complaints. After six months, the consumer shall prove that the product has fallen. I think it is totally unreasonable for consumers to prove that businesses have failed when it is quite clear that products are designed to break down, which is systematically exploited by companies for profit.
i-74ac1847d9210491-196	Madam President, I would like I thank Ola Möller for an important question. If we are to achieve more sustainable production and consumption, we must strengthen consumers' rights. It is we consumers who can make demands, and we shall make demands. That is why the government is now working to introduce the regulatory framework that the EU has decided and which is about extending the reverse burden of proof. This means that consumer protection is extended from today's six months up to two years in the future, which places much stricter demands on producers. It is reasonable to do this. It is reasonable to ensure that we have legal rules, not least in the area of civil law, which stimulate more sustainable production. Then the key issue is consumer rights. It is therefore a good thing that within the framework of EU cooperation we have got this through, and now we are going to implement it in Swedish law.
i-74ac1847d9210491-200	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Shekarabi for a good answer and for highlighting the importance of international cooperation in tackling these issues in a globalised era.
i-74ac1847d9210491-202	Madam President, I would like For the government, it is about continuing to create the conditions for the Swedish Consumer Agency to be able to work on the issues that are about support for consumers to make active choices. We are working on issues relating to origin labelling, which is a key issue, not least with regard to food consumption. We are working on being an active player in the field of labelling at all, and we have a government commitment to facilitate labelling that deals with environmental considerations in connection with consumption. These are important issues for sustainable consumption.
i-74ac1847d9210491-204	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Tomas. We need to discuss the social contract more, that is, why we as citizens pay taxes and how these taxes are to be used. What makes citizens feel that tax is necessary? Yesterday, the Government presented its budget to Parliament. The police get 120 million for reinforcements while 200 million is allocated to the free-year reform. The way I see it, it's a big mispriority. An increased number of shootings and all the victims this harvest is a threat to society. Police and health care work daily on the basis of existing legislation and the resources allocated to victims of crime and other citizens to receive the best care and care.
i-74ac1847d9210491-209	Madam President, I would like I thank Lotta Olsson. I am surprised at the question, because the government is not giving the police 120 million, but 2.4 billion. In fact, we are giving more resources to the police than the police authorities themselves requested from the government. We're providing resources because it's necessary. At the same time, after years of failed economic policy when the Moderates ruled, we have created a space to also be able to put resources on welfare, that is, what prevents crime, because that is probably so important. I am more surprised that the Moderates choose to give priority to spending several billions on reducing petrol tax with a crown in a position where the climate warning signals stand as rods on the slopes and everyone says that we need to reduce emissions in order to have a world to live in the future. What about the priority on the part of the Moderates?
i-74ac1847d9210491-214	Madam President, I would like Now it is the government's policy that we are going to discuss. A minister said here earlier that we should prioritise welfare and that that is absolutely the most important thing. It rhymes very badly for me that a free year is a priority. The situation is that it's about 200 million when we know what it looks like. I worked in medical care myself, and we didn't have gunshot wounds in the 1970s and 1980s. Today, however, this is something we can read about in the press every week. I still can't understand this.
i-74ac1847d9210491-215	Madam President, I would like A period of development that allows you to move away from your work to develop yourself when someone else takes up your job can actually be a good contribution to increasing the turnover and renewal of the labour market, and this may make it possible to extend your time in the labour market. Then I understand that it can be difficult for the Moderates to talk about and stand for their climate policy – or rather lack of climate policy. Nevertheless, the priority they choose to make in the budget is very surprising with today's announcement of the petrol tax; I really have to say that.
i-74ac1847d9210491-218	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin. A key figure for the modern environmental movement was biologist and author Rachel Carson. In her book Silent Spring, published in the early 1960s, she raised the chemical DDT. DDT causes, among other things, the eggs of the sea eagles to be so thin that they dry out or burst before the embryo is fully developed. The birds disappear, and we get a quiet spring. A lot has happened since the 1960s, but much still remains to be done. We are constantly affected by chemicals. They can be acutely toxic, they can interfere with our hormones and they can be devastating to foetal development. My question to the Government is how we can push for international action to tighten the global rules on chemicals.
i-74ac1847d9210491-222	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Burwick for a very important question. There are millions of chemicals in our everyday lives, and chemicals are traded globally. Not least, we are now seeing an increase in global trade with online commerce, where it is difficult to monitor what different products contain and where they come from. Sweden is now running an alliance with Uruguay to bring together countries to have a global framework for regulating and managing chemicals and waste. It is a framework similar to the Paris Agreement. The alliance currently consists of eighteen countries, eight UN agencies and authorities, and five other actors including private actors. It is a very active work that we are doing to ensure that we are able to regulate the export and import of chemicals and waste worldwide.
i-74ac1847d9210491-224	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It sounds very exciting. The government has just mentioned the Paris Agreement. An important part when we work with chemicals is to increase knowledge. Could part of this work also be to set up a global panel of experts like the one working on climate issues, IPCC, in order to help each other together to raise the global level of knowledge?
i-74ac1847d9210491-225	Madam President, I would like We in Sweden see that we may need to provide support for further coordination of scientific research, and not least the evaluation, around all these substances and the hazardous waste that exists around the world. We also need to support, not least, developing countries in order for them to be involved in this process too. So this is something that we will certainly be able to support, and we see the needs in many areas.
i-74ac1847d9210491-227	Madam President, I would like Two municipalities, Bengtsfors in Dalsland and Munkedal in Bohuslän, which are neighbours have similar conditions but are valued quite differently in the government budget. One gets tax cuts and one goes without. More and more municipalities are warning that the government has lost control of immigration. Many municipalities are now on their knees, as the start-up period has expired and the government has taken its hand from the municipalities. At this point, the government has chosen to move forward with more extensive family immigration and additional grounds for asylum. This contrasts completely with what the Social Democrats have said and promised before the elections. But this also contrasts with what Ardalan Shekarabi has said several times. I've been eavesdropping a little bit. The other day he said that, in the light of what we now have, we should continue to have a restrictive migration policy that will enable us to do this. Madam President, I would like Therefore, I wonder whose words apply, is it Shekarabis or Johansson?
i-74ac1847d9210491-231	Madam President, I would like I thank Ann-Sofie Alm for the question. I also welcome the debate on the finances of municipalities. It is gratifying that moderate representatives are highlighting the issue of the finances of municipalities, given that this aspect was completely lost when the decision on the 2019 budget was taken in this House. The more restrictive migration policy decided on by the Temporary Act remains unchanged. It is the government's will to ensure that migration policy is orderly. This is also clear from the agreement between the four parties in the January agreement. On the other hand, there is also an agreement on family immigration, which is a humanitarian issue for which the government stands up. But we're gonna get through integration. Then it is important that our municipalities have good conditions. And an important contribution there is that we ensure increased cost equalisation, so that municipalities, not least in sparsely populated areas, which have taken a great responsibility, have financial conditions to secure welfare because welfare and integration must come first.
i-74ac1847d9210491-233	Madam President, I would like Yes, well-being must come first. But the start-up period has expired, and the government has taken its hand from the municipalities that now bear the entire liability for payment. This is a very difficult situation for the small municipalities. It is not only moderate-led municipalities who complain about this, but also socially-led municipalities. What does the Social Democrats really have to say to the municipal councillors in Eskilstuna and Norrköping? Should you have restrictive immigration, as Ardalan Shekarabi actually says when I peek, or should it be according to the government?
i-74ac1847d9210491-236	Madam President, I would like The municipalities need resources. What the government has now announced is that the municipalities will receive more resources in general state grants that will enable the municipalities to decide where investments should be made. At the same time, the redistribution between municipalities must be strengthened. It is of the utmost importance if we want to give the right conditions to municipalities such as Bengtsfors and Filipstad. The government's will is therefore for this House to decide to strengthen the levelling-up and thus create the conditions for good welfare and integration throughout Sweden.
i-74ac1847d9210491-238	Madam President, I would like Arlanda Airport is Sweden's largest airport and is used daily by business travellers and private individuals. Arlanda, like Bromma airport, is a hub for infrastructure in Sweden. However, Arlanda is beginning to reach the breaking point of what is functional, as the airport is too small. The issue of Arlanda will also affect the future of Bromma Airport, which affects Sweden's entire access to our capital. In 2017, the Government appointed the Arlanda Council to develop long-term solutions for aviation. The Council was due to final report in December 2018 but was given an extended mandate until March this year. However, no one has yet seen the final report, despite comments on a number of written questions to the government. My question to the Minister for Infrastructure is therefore: What will happen to the final report of the Arlanda Council, and what is the future of Arlanda?
i-74ac1847d9210491-241	Madam President, I would like I thank Åsa Coenraads for the question. It is fascinating that Åsa Coenraads seems to know more about the Arlanda Council's work than I did who led the Arlanda Council's work. It is not that there is a final report, but the Arlanda Council was created to advise the Government on how a roadmap can be developed for Arlanda's further development. Of course it is true that Arlanda needs to be developed. It is an airport which today does not fulfil its mission well, but needs to be renovated in order to cope with baggage handling and obtain better solutions between foreign and domestic and clearing in between. There are many challenges. That is the responsibility of Swedavia, the state company that actually has to manage Arlanda. What we are working on in the roadmap and what the government has to consider in the future is, among other things, the question of Bromma's future. I know that there is now a commitment in the Stockholm region to actually phase out Bromma, which would be good enough to ensure that some flights at Arlanda are coordinated instead, not least domestic flights.
i-74ac1847d9210491-244	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'm afraid I don't get much wiser. We wait and wait for the Arlanda Council's final report, and in the meantime we risk losing jobs and entrepreneurship in Sweden. We have already seen that two important routes have stopped going to Sweden. What makes it take so long for the government to put its foot down? Although Swedavia has a responsibility, it is still the government that points out the guideline for Arlanda's future. How does the Minister view the future of Arlanda?
i-J8mue2HtM9NCNXnFkQAJ9y	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Åsa Coenraads! There is today a development work at Arlanda that Swedavia is responsible for. It is true that we have a responsibility for how the whole flight will develop, and then I would like to say that the most important thing for aviation in the future, in Sweden and in the world, is to meet the climate challenge. The reduction we have seen in flying is clearly linked to the fact that people and companies want to make less climate footprints. That is why we need to work on biofuels and the electrification of aviation so that, like all other modes of transport, it takes on its climate responsibility.
i-74ac1847d9210491-250	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Åsa Lindhagen about human rights. The government declaration clearly states that an independent human rights institution will be set up. This is an interesting promise because it has been made many times before. The issue has been put a little in the balance, and I hope that now really is the time to try to come to a decision. There are some shortcomings in how we take advantage of the advice and instructions we receive from international organisations in terms of human rights and to monitor that we really respect the rights. Here there is a shortcoming, and it is time that we got to work. It was very little, if anything, about this in the budget bill, so I hope that the preparations will now begin.
i-74ac1847d9210491-253	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Thomas Hammarberg, who raises these issues and keeps pushing for human rights! As we have talked about before, I think that we are living in times when we need to stand up for human rights more than for a very long time and the importance of setting up an independent institution that can monitor and provide support and help in terms of how we can constantly strengthen our work for human rights and the equal value of all people, which is the foundation of our democracy – the opportunity for people to live a free life in a vital and strong democracy. We've been clear. In the government declaration now in September, the Prime Minister pointed out that we should set up an independent human rights institution. It is an issue that has had to be bumped and wet for a long time, but we have now received a referral on the proposal that is on the table. These referrals are being prepared, so we will come back to this issue.
i-74ac1847d9210491-256	Madam President, I would like It is possible that I myself will also come back to this. To emphasise that there is a bit of a rush, we are thinking that the review of how we implement the very important Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities should be carried out in this institution. There is a worry and a feeling that nothing happens in the funkiss movement. It further underlines how important it is that we are actually starting to get to grips with this issue now. Thank you for your answer.
i-74ac1847d9210491-259	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that this institution is well established and that we safeguard the independence of the institution. I fully share the view that it is very important that we now move forward and get the institution in place. It has an important role to play, also from the perspective that you, Thomas Hammarberg, highlight when it comes to people with disabilities and their rights and also human rights in general. Please come back, because this is an important question!
i-74ac1847d9210491-261	Madam President, I would like In order to be allowed to take and retain a driving licence in Sweden, the individual must meet medical fitness requirements. That's good, because road safety is important. As far as driving licences for heavy goods vehicles are concerned, there are rules in EU directives. The new implemented Transportstyrelsen 2017 if I have understood it correctly. For example, if you have epilepsy, it means that you now have to be both seizure-free and medicine-free for ten years to keep your driving licence. Previously, it was seizure-free for five years. This results in professional drivers around Sweden losing their driving licences and livelihoods. Does the Minister of Infrastructure not think that there should be transitional rules allowing these drivers to comply with the rules within a reasonable period of time?
i-74ac1847d9210491-263	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Alexandra Anstrell! It is true that it is important that, in the event of changes in our medical requirements, we want to make sure that we have an opportunity for conversion. In this case, it is an EU directive that governs. We have to follow it, and the Swedish Transport Agency as a Swedish authority has to implement it. The reason why the EU has chosen to have rather strict regulations is the need for medical expertise to take account of the risk involved in traffic and, in particular, in professional traffic. We are talking about drivers who drive vehicles of perhaps 60 to 70 tonnes and the risk of having a serious medical condition in the middle of the driveway with such a vehicle. We must respect what forms the basis of the legislation that is now being implemented in all European countries. But, of course, I will also monitor developments and, not least, medical assessments and whether there are reasons for making changes.
i-74ac1847d9210491-266	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We are talking about drivers who are affected, such as a skier in Åre Municipality. He had three seizures in his sleep in his teens in the '90s. Since then, he's been on medication just in case. He's been driving heavy traffic for over 20 years. Now the driver's license and thus his livelihood are withdrawn without his disease forecast having changed. Is the Minister prepared to take the initiative to change the regulatory framework so that individual examination is always carried out for those who have a history of disease?
i-74ac1847d9210491-269	Madam President, I would like I think that both the honourable Member and I should be careful when it comes to making statements on individual cases or assessing the situation in which people should retain the possibility of having a driving licence depending on the condition of illness. We must be able to leave that to medical science. Then, of course, there will be an individual examination, and individual tests and trials are now being carried out. I will closely monitor further developments in this case as well as in some other cases, but not – I want to be careful about this – with regard to road safety.
i-74ac1847d9210491-271	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. I often meet riders and truck drivers around Sweden. The signals are clear from all of them. Everyone is asking for what we Social Democrats have long fought for, namely fair conditions and order and our ways. Last spring I had the honour of being with a traffic police officer outside Helsingborg at home in Skåne at work one day to see what our work of order gives for effect in practice. It is clear that the work done by the government and the decisions taken by the government in the last parliamentary term have provided much better tools to improve the situation on our roads. But you can't do all the control work on our roads by yourself from the police. At the same time, we still have a reality in which lorry drivers live in their trucks with poor conditions. They do not get their daily rest period, they drive road-insecure vehicles with overload and they have clients who do not accept their responsibilities. My question to the Government is: What can we do here and now at home to get on with this issue?
i-74ac1847d9210491-276	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elin Gustafsson, for your commitment! This is a very important question. Prior to 2014, there was no effort or regulation to halt the sharp increase in illegal cabotage. It dumps wages and working conditions and sometimes drives trucks that do not comply with the right traffic rules. That's why we've introduced squeezing, fines and ordering liability. Anyone ordering transport now has a responsibility to ensure that it is legal. We also train 400 police officers in control of this. However, we need to move on. That is why we have now announced an investigation into more effective controls, what is sometimes referred to as a traffic inspection. This means that we provide both the traffic police and the Swedish Transport Agency with better conditions for monitoring digitally but also on the ground on the road. We do it for the sake of Swedish haulage industry, for the sake of the climate and indeed for the sake of our road safety.
i-74ac1847d9210491-279	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer. It is good and important that we continue to take the lead in delivering more measures to get things right here in Sweden and in Europe. However, despite the progress made in the European Parliament in the spring, in which the Minister himself was involved and involved, we see that there is still a strong threat to this work across Europe. I wonder how the Minister for Infrastructure views the international work that also needs to be carried forward in this area.
i-NvfEjo8hy3AiuM7TNgbRYj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elin Gustafsson! It is absolutely right that it is not enough just to do things at home, even if we tighten controls. Everything also depends on a European regulatory framework. We reached an important negotiating success in December with a mobility package. Now it stands and weighs in the new Parliament. Right forces there want to tear down some of what we negotiated. My answer is clear: we must safeguard the agreement. If it should fall, each country alone will have to develop completely different types of controls. It does not promote Europe's development or mobility.
i-74ac1847d9210491-285	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. Bypass Stockholm is an infrastructure project that is of great importance to the whole country. The project will relieve Essingeleden, which is currently heavily trafficked and help to increase accessibility and shorten travel times throughout the Stockholm region. Passage creates new opportunities for public transport with fast bus connections between Stockholm's southern and northern parts. The project has been lined by many problems. Among other things, the government, as you remember, stopped the project in 2014. It cost taxpayers 200 million dollars, to no avail. In March we were informed that the Swedish Transport Administration had resigned one of the contractors, which gives us further delays and costs. And last summer we were able to read about new delays. My question to the Government is whether he believes that the Stockholm bypass project will be completed in 2026 as planned.
i-2gQePpN3hUjw1Ccs7U3LnM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessika Roswall! I don't want to talk about what I think. I'd rather know. This is the reason why I expect the Swedish Transport Administration to come back with a report on the consequences of the interruption for the planning and implementation of Bypass Stockholm. However, we shall remember why it was interrupted. It was about serious occupational health and safety crimes. There were serious shortcomings in the entrepreneurs. I am pleased that the Swedish Transport Administration did not allow this to continue but acted and stopped what would otherwise involve great risks for those who work there but also for the surrounding actors. This, of course, has consequences when important infrastructure investments are forced to be stopped. At the same time, however, we need to know that those who work there work safely and safely, so that we do not have a continued increase in the number of deaths in the workplace. I expect a report from the Finnish Transport Administration on the consequences of the interrupted work. But of course, just like Jessika Roswall, I am very concerned that the Passage should be in place as soon as possible and according to plan. It is an important investment that we are now making in Sweden.
i-74ac1847d9210491-293	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of the Environment Isabella Lövin. It's about Vättern. Today, Vättern is identified as a national interest in tourism and outdoor life, natural and cultural values, nature conservation, professional fishing, total defence and more. The liquid is a large source of drinking water with 250 000 subscribers today. An increase of 100,000 is expected in the future. As far as drinking water is concerned, there is a great deal of concern about the future. My question to the Minister for the Environment mainly concerns the various national interests and how to balance them.
i-74ac1847d9210491-297	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Andersson, for raising an important issue! The supply of drinking water is absolutely vital to our citizens. Unfortunately, we have experienced several summers now with a lack of precipitation and very low groundwater levels in many municipalities where we normally have good access to groundwater. The liquid is an important source of drinking water. There are also other important interests, not least defence interests and the need for defence to practice in the area. This is, of course, something that is being debated locally. One thing the government has looked at very recently is the banking drainage of Karlsborg Airport. We see that there is a risk that dangerous substances will come into the water. To ensure that no toxins leak out, the government has therefore inhibited that condition.
