i-36e7d133990149b4-0	Before we start the debate, I would like to welcome the representatives of the diplomatic corps to the Swedish Parliament and our foreign policy debate. You are warmly welcome.
i-36e7d133990149b4-1	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the diplomatic corps, ladies and gentlemen. Sweden's security begins in Europe. EU cooperation brings us peace, stability and growth. It is also crucial to meet the climate threat. At the same time, it is Europe that we feel in the process of change. We can no longer assume that all the members of the European Union believe in the values on which European cooperation is based. Nationalists and extremists are challenging political systems on our continent and in the world. In a changing world, our task is to conduct a foreign policy that creates security in Sweden and around us. To do this, foreign policy during its term of office will have three priorities: the promotion of democracy, shared responsibility for peace and security and active diplomacy. Mr President, I would like to Democracy in the world is in decline. Today, more people live in countries with authoritarian tendencies than in countries that are making democratic progress. Journalists, elected representatives and human rights defenders are harassed, persecuted and killed. Hot and hate poison the public debate. Democratic processes are being undermined. And many lose confidence in the democratic system as the global elite becomes richer and the social divides grow. To meet this development, we are now launching an offensive for democracy. We want to do this together with the Riksdag, and we will work for more countries to join. Mr President, I would like to Our pro-democracy offensive will be evident in all our foreign policy. It is about providing support and nutrition wherever democracy can grow and about being critical when it is impoverished. We will increase our democratic aid and stand up for the defenders and institutions of democracy. We need to involve more young people in the debate on democracy as the best solution to society. And we must demand that democracy and the rule of law be respected by all the Member States of the European Union. A fully functioning democracy is impossible without human rights. We continue to produce country reports on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. We will shortly be publishing updated reports on 29 countries in Europe. In many parts of the world there are persecutions of religious minorities. That is unacceptable. We will strengthen the work against anti-Semitism and arrange an international conference on the Holocaust in 2020. We protest when freedom of expression is restricted, when journalists are silenced and when human rights defenders and LGBT people are persecuted. Mr President, I would like to There is a link between growing social divides and decreasing confidence in democracy. That is an argument for more equality. The world's resources need to be allocated in solidarity. Sweden's goal with development policy is to reduce poverty. When other countries withdraw, Sweden continues to allocate 1% of GDP to aid. The focus areas are democracy and human rights, conflict prevention, climate, the environment and gender equality. A sustainable peace is built by linking humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation. Agenda 2030 and the development goals can only be achieved through synergies between economic, environmental and social sustainability. We must improve social dialogue between states, employers and workers' organisations. In this, not least the centenary of the International Labour Organisation, the ILO, is an important player. And now that the OECD has become the home of the Prime Minister's Global Deal initiative, it will develop and have a greater impact. Mr President, I would like to An important part of our democratic offensive is, of course, continued work to ensure that women enjoy the same rights, resources and representation as men. The government continues to pursue a feminist foreign policy with full force worldwide. We see how more and more countries are being inspired and imitated. The Government's international conference on gender equality will be followed up in Tunisia this spring, and Sweden will contribute to the implementation. Mr President, I would like to Our second priority is a shared responsibility for peace and security. Climate change, nuclear weapons and terrorism do not know land borders. They therefore need to be addressed through shared responsibility for our common security. The climate is the destiny of our time. Research predicts a frightening development if we do not act. We are still far from being able to meet the challenges and objectives of the Paris Agreement. Sweden will continue to show leadership in international climate work and become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We will seek cooperation to tackle climate-related security risks. Sweden fulfils its commitments on international climate finance and continues its commitment to the seas and biodiversity. Through the aid we invest in renewable energy, energy efficiency and climate-friendly agriculture. At the UN climate summit this autumn, Sweden will demonstrate the opportunity to combine climate action with economic development. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's security policy line is solid. Our military freedom of alliance serves us well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. It requires an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with enhanced defence cooperation, especially with Finland, and a credible national defence capability. Sweden's foreign and security policy is based on cohesion in the EU and increased cooperation on a broad front: in the Nordic region and the Baltic Sea region, within the UN and the OSSE and through the partnership with NATO. Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or an attack strikes another EU country or a Nordic country. And we expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. We should therefore be able to provide and receive support, both civilian and military. Our security depends on respect for the European security regime, and we shall work through the EU, the OSSE and the Council of Europe to uphold it. The transatlantic link is crucial for Europe. We will defend the bilateral relationship with the United States and cooperate based on values and interests. We regret that the United States has chosen to withdraw from a number of international agreements. Nordic cooperation is a priority for the government and will be further strengthened. We will work for concrete improvements for us who live, work and study here, for example by removing more border barriers. This makes our region safer and more sustainable. Mr President, I would like to The government's Russian policy is based on two elements: By virtue of international law, we condemn the Russian aggression in eastern Ukraine, which resulted in tens of thousands of deaths, and the illegal annexation of Crimea. It is a violation of international law and it challenges the European security regime. We condemn attacks like the one in British Salisbury last year. We are pushing for EU sanctions against Russia to be maintained as long as the reasons for their introduction persist. We support the reform efforts in Ukraine. At the same time, we, as well as the European Union, have contacts and dialogue with Russia and Russian society. We need to work together where we have common interests. We support Russian civil society and strive for strengthened inter-people contacts. The Council of the Baltic Sea States, the Barents Council and the Arctic Council are shaped in which we have concrete collaborations. Arctic issues are important for global security, and during the year Sweden will renew its Arctic Strategy and host the EU's first Arctic Forum. The important Eastern Partnership is 10 years old this year. We support the development of the participating countries towards stable democracies. A shared responsibility for peace and security is also about responding jointly to attempts to create divisions and instability in our societies. The government works together with other countries also against non-military threats, such as terrorism and in the cyber and hybrid fields. Equality and democracy play an important role in building common security. A society of justice and trust in the institutions can better withstand the security challenges of our time. Mr President, I would like to The EU is our most important foreign policy arena. A strong and united Europe is crucial in an uncertain world situation. We need to strengthen the common foreign and security policy. We want to sharpen the EU's instruments, such as diplomacy, military and civilian crisis response, aid and trade. We contribute to the Pesco cooperation, which strengthens operational capabilities and efficiency in the field of defence. We have played a crucial role in the European Pact for Civil Crisis Management. The government will continue to work to ensure that all Member States respect and uphold the EU's common values. The elections to the European Parliament in May will be important. We need a Europe of fair jobs, a more ambitious climate policy, equality and equality. The gaps must be reduced and prosperity increased. It is also important for the EU to have a common asylum system that is legally secure, humane and sustainable in the long term, where all countries assume their responsibilities. We regret the UK's decision to leave the EU and are working to ensure that the withdrawal takes place in an orderly manner. It provides the best conditions for the UK's future relationship with Sweden and the EU to become close and confident. There should be a clear EU perspective for the countries of the Western Balkans, but it calls for further reforms that strengthen their institutions and develop democracy – a work that takes time and which we support. The developments in Turkey are very worrying. The EU will both cooperate with and make demands on Turkey. Mr President, I would like to Global problems require global solutions. Sweden is a friend of the UN and sees the need for reform. At the turn of the year, Sweden left the UN Security Council, where we were deeply involved in the most serious crises in the world. In a polarized Security Council, Sweden has stood up for international law, human rights, gender equality and humanitarian responsibility. We have put the link between climate and security on the Council's agenda. At the beginning of the membership Sweden was often a single voice for women's participation in peace and security work. Today, more and more Council members see the need to include women and girls for sustainable peace. The UN and other international efforts play an important role in war-torn areas, and Sweden's contribution is appreciated. Mr President, I would like to For nearly 80 years, man has lived under the threat of nuclear weapons. In recent decades, it has been limited by various agreements. It has contributed to a safer world. Apart from the fact that a human error can cause a human disaster, we face a number of problems. First of all, the tension between the major powers increases when the United States and Russia leave the INF disarmament agreement after Russian treaty violations. Safety in our immediate vicinity is deteriorating. Nuclear countries need to take joint responsibility and make concrete disarmament commitments. Secondly, the most central agreement, the NPT, is in danger because nuclear weapons are developing new capabilities and not living up to the agreement on disarmament. Thirdly, the North Korea nuclear and missile programme is a serious threat to international peace and security. Finally, the nuclear agreement with Iran is now at risk. The country's nuclear capability has declined considerably since the conclusion of the agreement. The EU is now taking concrete steps to protect the agreement. The investigation into the Nuclear Ban Treaty has been referred to. The government's goal remains a nuclear-free world. We will therefore take the initiative to bring together a wide range of countries in the work on nuclear disarmament. Mr President, I would like to Our third priority is diplomacy. This means that we are also seeking dialogue and cooperation with countries whose values we do not fully share. We give priority to our participation in multilateral organisations and are available to participate in peace processes. A well-functioning international cooperation is the basis for a rule-based world order based on international law. Sweden is now a place for talks on disarmament and peaceful conflict resolution on the Korean Peninsula. With diligent diplomatic work and good relations with all involved, we continue to contribute to trying to eliminate a serious threat. The political process for peace in Yemen took a decisive step with the Stockholm Accord in December 2018. We continue our commitment. In a few weeks' time, we will be hosting for the third time a humanitarian donor conference in Geneva. Suffering must end for the people of Yemen. When the government launched an action plan for relations with Latin America and the Caribbean during the last parliamentary term, the development of democracy had been positive for many years. Since then, the situation has deteriorated. Venezuela is one of the countries where democracy has been eroded for a very long time. The situation is desperate. The EU is now acting together and with Latin American countries for a peaceful and democratic solution. Sweden participates in the new contact group. The government is working for a two-state solution based on international law in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Sweden, like the rest of the EU, sees Jerusalem as the future capital of two states. We have a long, friendly commitment to Israel and Palestine. The government contributes to democratic state-building in Palestine, and we stand up for Israel's legitimate security needs. Sweden's broad engagement in Afghanistan continues, including by strengthening women's participation in peace processes. Sweden supports the reform efforts of the new Iraqi Government. Relations between the various ethnic and religious groups of the country, such as the Christians, and the position of the Kurds are crucial for long-term peace and stability in Iraq. 13 million people are on the run because of the war in Syria. Sweden has, among other things, provided over 3 billion in humanitarian aid since the war broke out and supports the UN-led process of achieving a sustainable peace. I will never forget the horrendous testimony of the Rohingya women from the abuses in Myanmar. Sweden is pushing for accountability. Mr President, I would like to We are strengthening our partnership with African countries and with the African Union. Our work in the Security Council is being followed up in the Horn of Africa. The long-standing conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea has been transformed into a historic peace. The government has decided to double aid to Somalia, where the situation is vulnerable. We will continue to promote positive development in the Red Sea region. Our broad relationships provide us with good opportunities to contribute to reconciliation and development. The Democratic Republic of Congo has undergone a historic shift in power, but its challenges remain. Sweden works for a strong civil society and for women's political participation. Mr President, I would like to India plays an increasing role in the world and is an important partner for Sweden in trade and innovation. China's strengthened international position presents both opportunities and challenges. Trade with China contributes to jobs and growth in Sweden. But the situation of democracy and human rights in China is very serious. The government is working on developing a China strategy. Protectionist winds are blowing stronger and stronger. The trade dispute between the United States and China is a threat to the multilateral trade regime. Diplomacy is also the promotion of our trade. During the last term of office, exports increased. The government launched an export strategy with a series of initiatives to strengthen the internationalisation of business and our economic relations with the outside world. The strategy will be developed with a focus on economic, social and ecological sustainability. Sweden stands up for free and fair trade. We are defending the multilateral trading system, where the WTO is a key element. Mr President, I would like to As you know, the Foreign Service is dealing with a number of consular matters. Some of them are politically difficult. Most help in silence. We always act with their best interests in mind. The work to help Swedes in distress abroad is ongoing 24 hours a day, every day of the year. Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! The world's anxiety can sometimes make it feel as if the doomsday is near. But the world can be made more secure with more democracy, more solidarity, more cooperation. Hope, as someone has said, is not a feeling but a way of acting. Let's not forget that. Let us fight the feeling of doom with a policy of hope and faith in the future, in Sweden and in the world!
i-36e7d133990149b4-70	Mr President, I would like to I had prepared a post that would highlight the differences that exist between us. But I was actually going to use my first line to do the opposite, so I put it in my pocket. I think that we will still spend quite a few hours marking the differences and differences that exist. Therefore, it may be wise to start by highlighting the similarities that exist, not least because representatives of the diplomatic corps follow the debate. I believe that if we look at Europe today, we are seeing demonstrations in Poland for free, independent courts. We see in Slovakia demonstrations in rage over a journalistic murder. We are seeing demonstrations in Romania against the intention to change the laws that make corruption more difficult. We see in Hungary a rhetoric that fills us with concern. Therefore, Mr President, I think that anyone who belongs to a group in the European Parliament blamelessly throws the first stone. We all have in different party combinations people from these countries and a number of other countries who do not always stand for a policy that we think is right and right. That is why, Mr President, there is a need to emphasise the similarity that exists in the Swedish Parliament and the Parliament in support of democracy, in support of institutions that guarantee legal certainty and freedom of the media. It unites us in Sweden. That's what we're going to talk about. That is why I think it is a good thing that we are discussing which criteria should apply not only to be able to enter our European Community but also to remain and be involved in it. That is why I welcome the fact that the democracy search proposed by the Foreign Minister in his speech is now being carried out.
i-36e7d133990149b4-75	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hans Wallmark! We tend to be kind to each other in the debate and appreciate having a debate. And I wouldn't throw the first stone, would I? Absolutely not! I think it is excellent if we can get Parliament's parties on a democratic offensive, precisely because when we look around the world we see democracy and the institutions working for a democratic order being threatened, human rights defenders and others being persecuted and even killed and journalists getting hurt. Democracy work has also been part of our foreign policy. We have invested a lot, not least through our embassies, in ensuring that freedom of expression and assembly are promoted. It is good if we can unite in this. I am also proud and pleased to be the Foreign Minister of a country where we have broad consensus on what is at the heart of our policy: a generous development policy, standing up for democracy and human rights and defending the multilateral rule-based world order. These are our fundamental values, which we must always uphold. It's also about what we do. How do we ensure that this is translated into political action? I hope that we can find common ground there too. What divides us, we have many opportunities to return to. As I began by saying, Europe will continue to be our most important foreign policy arena. There are a number of challenges in the coming years. It is good to hear that there is no discussion about svexit from there, but that we should remain in the EU and invest in that cooperation.
i-36e7d133990149b4-81	Mr President, I would like to I make a promise that in my speech I will really mark the great differences that also exist. But I think it is important that we have this commitment to democracy, the rule of law and media freedom. I also note the new tone that Peter Eriksson has also expressed in the media about increased democratic aid to Eastern and Central Europe, the so-called Eastern Partnership. I think these are wise words. Some of us were active in securing Bal tikum's freedom 25 years ago, as well as their work for NATO and EU membership. There is my experience that parties and party-related aid mean a great deal. Building up parties is also part of building functioning institutions. I hope that the government will carry this insight into its continued democratic work, not least with Eastern and Central Europe.
i-36e7d133990149b4-84	Mr President, I would like to I thought so, Hans Wallmark. You must include the word NATO in any speech, otherwise I would not recognize you. It is important that the Swedish people know that our security policy doctrine is solid. There should be security and security in our security policy order. It is based on three elements: that we remain militaryly non-aligned, that we develop our cooperation with Finland in particular, as well as with many other countries, and also with NATO, and that we strengthen our national defence capabilities. Otherwise, there is much we can work together on – not least in Pesco, which I know Hans Wallmark went out and commented this morning. Here we have taken an active part. We are in the middle of the Member States and at the same level of ambition as Finland, for example, to respond to the argument used this morning. We shall continue to have a lively debate, and we shall continue to safeguard democracy and freedom of expression.
i-36e7d133990149b4-88	Mr President, I would like to I have great respect for Mrs Wallström's commitment to foreign policy and the strong drive she shows on a number of issues. However, we do not all have the same idea of different things. Coming back here in the Chamber, we have discussed Palestine, Swedish aid to Palestine and what is happening in this area. We know for a long time that the Palestinian Authority has paid salaries to terrorists and is spreading anti-Semitism. It is a corrupt organisation that Sweden continues to fatten with money. Decision 23 of the Council of Ministers of the Palestinian Authority, taken in 2010, shows the system used to pay salaries to convicted terrorists. Got the low penalty they got a little less. They got longer sentences, they got a little more. For 0 - 3 years, 1,400 shekels were received per month, for 3 - 5 years 2 000 shekels per month and for 5 - 10 years 4 000 shekels per month. It continues up to 30 years or more and 12,000 shekels per month. My question to Mrs Wallström is, if that is not worrying. Should the Swedish Government not use the means it has, such as aid, to try to bring about a change, given that we have not seen any positive change in this area?
i-36e7d133990149b4-92	Mr President, I would like to Our development cooperation with Palestine has been going on for a long time and under various governments. It focuses on supporting the Palestinian people, and the core is support for achieving sustainable state-building. The Palestinian Authority must make progress; it is always part of our dialogue with them. It is about fighting corruption, distancing yourself from violence, respecting human rights, increasing the influence of women and young people, and so on. Of course, the main obstacle to the development of Palestine remains the fact that it is occupied. The lives of Palestinians are very difficult in everyday life. The Israeli authorities are tearing down Palestinian structures that have been funded with European aid funds, and we are, of course, protesting against this. It happened three times in the last month alone. No Swedish aid goes to the Palestinian Authority's budget. It is channelled through the UN, the World Bank and civil society organisations. If and when we receive reports of misuse of these funds, we will do so. That is how we will continue to operate. But stop saying that we are paying to Palestinian terrorists or that money would go directly to the Palestinian Authority. It's not like that. Our money is channelled in this way. I wonder what it is you're reading, or I don't want to know. But I think we need to find out the truth and the facts about this matter.
i-36e7d133990149b4-97	Mr President, I would like to I can hand over my material to Mrs Wallström later, if she is interested. It's public statistics. As I mentioned in my previous line, developments in this area are not improving. Although Sweden does not provide direct support to the Palestinian Authority, Swedish support nevertheless enables negative development to continue. We have clear examples of how different convicted terrorists get money. A person serving 20 life sentences after a murder receives $453 365 in salary from the Palestinian Authority. There are several examples of this. Moreover, evidence shows that some persons commit crimes solely for the purpose of receiving money to support their family.
i-36e7d133990149b4-100	Mr President, I would like to In the dialogue that we are conducting with Palestine, we very clearly state the need for strengthened democracy, respect for human rights, the fight against corruption and the importance of acting in a way that promotes progress in the peace process. There are ongoing evaluations of the assistance. We will continue to do this and to stick with it. We do so in cooperation with the UN, the World Bank and civil society organisations, which are the ones channelling our support. However, it would be interesting, if Markus Wiechel wanted to be constructive, to hear something about how you intend to contribute to the work of democracy in Europe and the world.
i-36e7d133990149b4-103	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for a declaration focusing on democracy. It is important that we have an offensive democracy profile, not least now that Parliament has a democracy anniversary in the coming years. It is also a good thing that there is a willingness to act and take leadership in the climate, with a new Arctic focus, and, Mr President, an investigation sent for a referral – an investigation that concerns our security. Not all investigations into our security have come to that end. Of course, the foreign minister's offensive concerns many countries. Venezuela is one of them. It would certainly be good to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs clearly stating that Mr Maduro is not a legitimate President and that Mr Guaidó is the legitimate leader of Venezuela's representative, with the task of holding elections. Mr President, I would like to The second issue I would like to highlight concerns the long-standing friendly engagement with Israel. It is of course important, not least for the forthcoming Holocaust Conference in Sweden 2020, that Sweden has friendly relations. That is where it breaks down today. We should not choose the same paths as Trump and others, with temporary relocations, or, as the Minister did four years ago, a sudden confession. A creative diplomacy is needed here to soften and re-establish the friendly relations that we have long had. There I would like a reply from the Minister, Mr President.
i-G2P64HAoXuLXUYRua5m6FT	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren! We are all very concerned about the situation in Venezuela. We already said after the presidential elections that we did not regard it as free and fair. Nor did we make any statement in support of Mr Maduros' proclamation of himself as President. We believe that it is now high time for the Venezuelans themselves, in free and fair elections, to elect the President and preferably a new National Assembly. The statement has been our common platform. I have spoken on the phone with Mr Guaidó, and, as Kerstin Lundgren well knows, we have been very clear that we see him as the one who now has the task of leading the process towards holding new elections. We support him as President of the National Assembly, and we also support his efforts to bring about humanitarian aid. The country is in such a serious situation that people are on the brink of starvation. Moreover, it is very good that we have joined the international contact group that the EU has formed to help, for example, the opposition to ensure that humanitarian assistance is delivered and also in other ways to help a country that is deeply divided and in a very serious situation, not least economically. So I would say that we have been as clear as we can be. As for Israel, we continue to say that we are their friends. We respect their demands for security, and we continue the dialogue with them, not least in the fight against anti-Semitism.
i-36e7d133990149b4-112	Mr President, I would like to I heard great concern, but I did not hear any clarity about Mr Maduro – that he is not a legitimate representative. That clarity would be valuable. I heard a willingness to hold talks with Israel, but here, Mr President, creative diplomacy is required. Two years ago, in his foreign declaration, the Foreign Minister pointed to the appointment of a special envoy, but this has not led to any change. More creative diplomacy is needed to achieve this. I would like to hear this from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We have reason to come back to the issue of freedom of alliance as we approach Finland. Is Sweden still non-aligned when we plan militaryly with Finland, even for a war situation?
i-36e7d133990149b4-115	Mr President, I would like to What if one day you heard what your suggestions were? Is there anything that you have initiated or said that can help the process forward? We are working on, with both Palestine and Israel, in a dialogue that may not always be easy but which still allows us to talk directly to each other and find constructive contributions that we can make together. But this is a conflict that we have lived with for a long time, and it takes two to tango, as they say. We continue to make efforts to move towards a two-state solution. We could not have been clearer about Maduro. We have not recognised the elections that led him to power as free and fair, and we support Mr Guaidó instead. We have done this in every possible way.
i-36e7d133990149b4-117	Mr President, I would like to The world is facing a decisive choice. Either together we make the world safer through joint disarmament of nuclear weapons – the only mass destruction weapon that can destroy all of humanity – or we let the arms powers continue to develop their nuclear weapons and make the world increasingly uncertain. The nuclear debate in recent years has been a lot about Iran and North Korea. That's good. Dictatorships should not be given the capacity to use nuclear weapons to make the world more uncertain. At the same time, however, the responsibility of the major nuclear powers, the United States and Russia, as well as China, France and the United Kingdom, is often forgotten. They are states that, under the NPT, are allowed to have nuclear weapons and to disarm, but instead they are now equipping and modernising their nuclear weapons. It was therefore gratifying that the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons was adopted in summer 2017. Sweden was a driving force in the negotiations and voted in favour of the Convention, but at the same time gave an explanation of vote criticising parts of it. Sweden has gone from having its own nuclear programme to ending it and joining the NPT and being a strong voice for global nuclear disarmament. Many Social Democrats such as Alva Myrdal, Thorsson Thorsson, Maj-Britt-Britt Theorin and Olof Palme have entered the history books through their commitment to disarmament. As chairman of the Independent Commission on Disarmament and Security, Palme said in 1980: ..................................................... Now Sweden's voice is becoming silent. The conventions to ban chemical weapons, cluster bombs and anti-personnel mines signed Sweden as soon as possible. It has now been 512 days since the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons was opened for signature. In 2019 it will be decided. Will the Swedish Government be promoting nuclear disarmament and signing the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention? On which side of history do you want to stand, Margot Wallström?
i-36e7d133990149b4-123	Mr President, I would like to Well, I've been thinking about putting myself on the right side of history, too, when it comes to nuclear disarmament. The question is: how do we do this in the most effective way? How do we continue a long Swedish tradition of political leadership, active and skilled diplomacy and technical expertise? That is what has made us an important voice. Now we see a new nuclear armament. Now we are thinking of weapons of a new kind that could actually be used. This is translated into new abilities. We now intend to bring together a group of countries with a strong commitment to disarmament issues to discuss the way forward. It should be both nuclear countries and non-nuclear countries which, in particular with Germany, are also interested in this process, are seeking a new dialogue on this. The focus will, of course, be on one of the most important tools we have, namely the NPT Non-Proliferation Treaty. That is the cornerstone of this area, and it is also where nuclear weapons countries have made concrete commitments. Of course, we want to make political marks against any use of nuclear weapons. After all, we do not believe in deterrence theory, and we will continue to work in all different areas. It is about verification mechanisms, risk reduction and all the agreements that exist, and when we have listened to the consultation bodies, we shall also consider how to deal with the Nuclear Ban Convention. This will be a very important debate, but we do not have to wait for it. There are things that we can, must and must do now.
i-36e7d133990149b4-128	Mr President, I would like to It is a good thing that Mrs Wallström wants to stand on the right side of history, but today, unfortunately, there is no answer to whether Sweden intends to sign the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. History will remember whether Margot Wallström signs or not. There is an opportunity to participate as an observer in the meetings of the State Parties before signing as a State. Observers have the right to express their views and make proposals but are not allowed to vote. For the first time in a long time, we can get into a situation where Sweden is not in the room when nuclear disarmament is being discussed. The Swiss investigation concluded that, as a first step, the agreement should be developed and improved by participating as an observer. The question is whether the Swedish Government intends to move in that direction. Does the government intend to participate as an observer in the Nuclear Weapons Convention Review Conferences? Today you are also launching a new initiative. That may sound good, but why is a new initiative needed? There's already one. It's called the United Nations Nuclear Weapons Convention.
i-36e7d133990149b4-132	Mr President, I would like to Håkan Svenneling is effectively arguing, and these are the arguments that we also hear in this debate and will hear in the future when it comes to how Sweden should act. It is important that we consider this carefully. Other countries have also taken time to do so. It's no wonder we're sorting out all the arguments. We already had points of view in the process. It was a process that was so short that we did not really have time to sort out the relationship with the NPT, for example. But I know that Germany – they are now on the Security Council – has invited a debate on these issues on 2 April. They have invited Sweden to come and talk about this. There is a wide range of channels where we can continue to be very active on this issue, and very soon, within just a few months, we will also be deciding how to deal with the Convention.
i-36e7d133990149b4-135	Mr President, I would like to The world's democracy is in decline. Today, more people live in countries with authoritarian tendencies than in countries that are making democratic progress. This is what the foreign declaration says. This is both serious and worrying. However, Mrs Wallström, one of the really good examples of democratic development is Israel. Two international democracy indices from The Economist and Freedom House have just placed Israel among the best nations in the world. In a region where the world's most authoritarian regimes govern and where the trend is clear, that democracy is weakening, Israel's development is outstanding. At the same time, it is clear to everyone that relations with Israel today are worse than ever before, and I am talking about Sweden's relations. Of the 28 EU Member States, Sweden is the only country whose Foreign Minister is not welcome in the only democracy in the Middle East. Regardless of what you think of the Israeli Government's policy and where you stand in relation to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, this is a political and diplomatic failure. Sweden is no longer in a position to hold talks at government level in Jerusalem, in the only democracy in the Middle East.
i-36e7d133990149b4-140	Mr President, I would like to Sweden values a good relationship with Israel. We continue to have our hand extended to Israel, which of course reacted very strongly to our recognition of Palestine. It is, of course, from there that many of the problems arise. We have an ongoing dialogue on various issues and cooperate, for example, on anti-Semitism efforts in this country and around the world. We have a very broad trade and innovation exchange with Israel. Otherwise, we have all the contacts that we need. Netanyahu has been visiting the EU community and so on, but also Israel has some challenges democratically. I sometimes think that Lars Adaktusson has a somewhat one-sided view of the whole Middle East conflict. After all, we are working for a two-state solution, and that means having a dialogue. You really need to think about what action to take. Israel is also an occupying power. It builds a wall and has introduced laws that are questionable, not least as regards religious freedom and other things. There are concerns and challenges, but we intend to continue calling for dialogue with Israel. Perhaps we have been given a warning example for other countries that also see the problems of the Middle East conflict and the need to support Palestine and a two-state solution, something we will continue to do. I have never heard a single proposal from Lars Adaktusson on how to take a step towards a two-state solution. Is there anything?
i-36e7d133990149b4-147	Mr President, I would like to I note that Mrs Wallström is rejecting her position. There is not an ounce of self-criticism. With all due respect, it's sad. While the Minister for Foreign Affairs is talking about dialogue, we have an underlying problem. For a long time, the Social Democracy and the collective left in Sweden have conveyed a picture of Israel that is not only unbalanced but also untrue. When Israel is portrayed as an apartheid country, when its Arab minority is described as second-class citizens, and when the Foreign Minister speaks of extra-judicial executions, it is nothing more than black-painting. This black-painting and the skewed notions that follow in its wake have ultimately led to hostility against Israel in Sweden. Does the Foreign Minister agree that hostility is a problem, and how will the Foreign Minister re-establish relations with Israel?
i-36e7d133990149b4-150	Mr President, I would like to There is no hostile attitude. There is hope and work for a two-state solution. Then you have to respect each other. Then there is another party that you have to talk about sometimes. I have never heard Lars Adaktusson mention how to take a step towards a two-state solution. We continue to say that we respect Israel's need for security. If you do not understand it, you cannot understand the conflict in the Middle East either. We must ensure that their legitimate security needs are satisfied. At the same time, we must react to the occupation and demolishments that are taking place all the time and to the fact that the Palestinians in Gaza are unable to support themselves and no longer have access to water and electricity. This does not help the situation. We will continue to cooperate, not least through their diplomatic representation in Sweden. We will continue the dialogue and continue to fight for a two-state solution.
i-36e7d133990149b4-153	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the declaration. It is good that the government is clear in giving support to the President of the Venezuelan Parliament, Juan Guaidó. I would have liked that statement to have been made earlier, but the new position of the government still means that the European Union has given clear support to Venezuela's democracy and opposition leaders, which is a thank you. Venezuela has been destroyed and is on the brink of a collapse. 3 million people have left the country. In 2017, six out of ten people lost 11 kilos of weight due to food shortages and a shortage of supplies. Now, of course, the European Union and Sweden must assist Venezuela in its democratic development. Despite the government's statement, a majority of the Swedish Social Democratic Members of the European Parliament choose to enter into a pact with communists and vote against a resolution calling for democracy to be restored in Venezuela. This resolution is negotiated by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, so this is, to say the least, remarkable and puzzling. Mr President, I would like to I therefore ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: what is the attitude of the Social Democrats towards Venezuela? Can it be trusted that the whole party of the Social Democrats is behind the restoration of democracy in Venezuela?
i-36e7d133990149b4-158	Mr President, I would like to The simple answer is yes, Fredrik Malm can trust that. I am not going to answer for the Members of the European Parliament, but if I have understood correctly, it was above all a discussion on the concepts of international law. It was about the word acknowledgment. We are making the same distinction, just as the discussion in the EU circle was, that is, it does not recognise individuals or governments but states. It was therefore a long discussion on the exact wording to be used. However, it must have been clear from our statements, from our policies and from how we have acted that it is Guaidó that we support. He is elected by the people and now has the task of announcing new, free and fair elections in Venezuela. Maduro has contributed to Venezuela's having an economy in free-fall with waiting hunger and a terrible suffering for the Venezuelan people. That is why we are entering and providing support through the European Union. We have a place in the contact group, and we will continue to work for Venezuela to come together again and find hopefully peaceful and also good economic development into the future.
i-36e7d133990149b4-162	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. Although this could have happened in the past, it is good that the Swedish Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are now clear about Venezuela and the status that Juan Guaidó should have, that is, that Sweden in practice recognises him as Venezuela's legitimate leader until elections are held in the country. But the European Union also has a great responsibility, and the Social Democrats who have chosen a completely different line in relation to Venezuela are not dozens. It is Marita Marita, former minister and party secretary, Jytte Guteland, former chairman of the Youth League and Aleksander Gabelic, former chairman of the Swedish UN Association. The question is therefore: can we trust that the Social Democrats are clear and united in relation to Venezuela in the run-up to the European Parliament elections and follow the line of the Minister for Foreign Affairs?
i-36e7d133990149b4-166	Mr President, I would like to Although we appreciate having the CV of the Members of the European Parliament reported, I would say that we have the same position with regard to Venezuela and that we regard Guaidó as elected by the people with the task of steering the process forward in a way that reduces the suffering of the Venezuelan people and helps to restore democratic order in the country.
i-36e7d133990149b4-167	Mr President, I would like to From a moderate point of view, I have three calls for the government in the field of foreign policy: Come home! Get in balance! Come to insight! Sweden's two years in the UN Security Council are over, and there is reason to sum up. The campaign to reach the desirable place was lined with classified paper and a not entirely transparent process. The time in the Security Council was marked by difficult things such as the murder in Syria and the development of nuclear weapons in North Korea. Sweden's unbroken commitment to Ukraine, a country in whose eastern parts a low-intensity war has raged since 2014, with around 13 000 dead and 30 000 injured, is written in the account. Sweden has never hesitated but continued to describe the illegal annexation of Crimea for what it is. Added to this are the recent events at the Sea of Azov, when Russia provokes the international community by keeping twenty sailors and sailors from Ukraine captured. They're to be released. The important thing for the government is now to come home to Europe. Of course, it is not possible to maintain a qualitative interest in all events. The UN and the work of the Security Council have taken their time and demanded their resources, but it is through the EU and its institutions that Sweden exercises its central foreign and security policy. In times when the forces of populism and extremism on the right and left challenge and want to hack European cooperation, Sweden must protect institutions that ensure the rule of law and the design of the common. It is particularly important to maintain good contacts in our natural neighbourhood: the Baltic Sea region, Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. In 2014, Stefan Löfven did not even appoint an EU minister. Very valuable time was lost, and Sweden's influence in European cooperation was hardly favored by the fact that this chair was empty. It would be 18 months until the Promise Government received its first, in itself very competent, EU Minister with Ann Linde's appointment. In May, we will go to European elections. I see a number of given themes: strengthening security within and around the EU, strengthening economic growth, orderly migration policies and effective climate cooperation to meet the threats we all face. Mr President, I would like to My second call is to balance! In recent years, the government has taken a number of positions that have more to do with party politics than with Sweden's interests. The previous parliamentary term was demolished with a recognition of Palestine, where no record was taken of what the Riksdag thought, nor was there a solid process of cooperation with other parties. It was all motivated by the promotion of the peace process. Has it improved in the region? Has violence diminished? No one can honestly answer these questions with a yes. Sweden's chances of being perceived as a serious party were dashed. Added to this is the new threat picture in the region. Iran is moving forward positions. Controlled groups in Syria and Lebanon are creeping ever closer by Israel's equipped missiles. That Israel sees this as existential threat is understandable, with forces taught by indoctrination to question the country's self-evident right to exist and where the purely anti-Semitic thrives. Where is Sweden there? When did the Foreign Minister lead a delegation to Israel? When did we have a larger visitor? In terms of balance, there is also reason for the government to read the investigation prepared by Ambassador Lundin for the government with a recommendation regarding the so-called nuclear ban, NBT. His conclusion is clear: that we should not sign or ratify. Say it! Do it! It is about Swedish defence and security interests. Another very important reason is to try to secure the processes that exist in the fields of disarmament, nuclear arms limitation and non-proliferation agreements. These are regimes where nuclear powers such as Russia, the United States, China, the United Kingdom and France are already involved and involved, not like NBT, where they are outside and are not involved. To secure a Swedish line that involves continued hard work to limit the threat from nuclear weapons, realism, not placards, is needed. There is now a clear fight in Venezuela. For me, it is natural to stand next to the politically legitimate institution: the National Assembly. Maduro has betrayed his people and destroyed his country. On the other side is President Guaidó, who defends Venezuela. This is not about two parties in a conflict. It is about the people versus oppression, freedom against Maduros's socialism. There must be no doubt as to where Sweden stands in this measurement of strength. There has been talk of contact groups and mediation, but support can only be given to one side. The humanitarian contribution that Sida was willing to highlight must necessarily come to the people and not be distributed as alms that were somehow conjured up by Maduro and his men. Mr President, I would like to My exhortation is come to light! Diplomacy is the first line of defense. The defense is actually the second line of defense. Both are needed! The Defence Committee concluded in December 2017 that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. A few days later, in connection with Folk och Försvar's annual conference in Sälen, what may be described as a tumult in the government camp broke out when the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs distanced themselves from the wording that the Social Democrats have been involved in negotiating in the defence committee that, on behalf of the government, will produce documentation that can form the basis for a future defence decision. I assume that the understanding now exists that it is correct to say that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. This particular view of reality forms the basis for the commitment to the defence that the government has now supported by fully accepting the Swedish Moderates' and Christian Democrats' budget for 2019, which marks the beginning of an economic staircase of SEK 18 billion more in the next three years, in accordance with the Swedish Armed Forces' previous submitted documentation. For us Moderates, however, it is important that these are steps up to the equivalent of 2% of GDP in defence efforts. Here everyone is still waiting for a message from the Social Democrats. And we are very clear that a Swedish NATO membership would contribute to increased security in our neighbourhood and thus to securing peace around the Baltic Sea. In terms of understanding, it is quite clear how we in the Western world have to rid ourselves of a strategy with regard to the People's Republic of China – a significant country, becoming the world's largest economy. But what we should also remind ourselves of is that it is already the world's largest single-party state. The Communist Party is intimately connected with economics and the military. It's hard to know where one begins and the other ends. Finally, I have a purely personal reflection. I'm still on leave of absence from my job as a political editor. Therefore, to all foreign representatives who are listening to this debate: journalists and publishers of fictional crimes are not locked up because they write and print the truth. The free word and the free search for truth are not hindered. There is no fuss about the reporter who has to guard the power, least of all on my European continent, but also in Asia, America or Africa. From the pulpit of the Riksdag we pronounce names like Dawit Isaak and Gui Minhai.
i-36e7d133990149b4-185	Mr President, I would like to It was clever, Hans Wallmark. Then I say, move on! Go forward with your own suggestions! Go deep into the questions! First of all, you are still in the Security Council campaign. You've never moved on from it, and I find that sad. I think we deserve recognition for what we have contributed to the Security Council. We have also made Sweden much safer with all the contacts we have had by showing that we have been a reliable partner who has been able to help make the EU a UN's best friend and the UN the EU's best friend. We have never left Europe; it is exactly the opposite. We have ensured that the European Union has always had a voice through us also in the Security Council. Nor have we neglected European cooperation. We were considered one of five main preferred partners when the ECFR mapped this out. Yesterday we discovered that the Moderates are also against nuclear weapons, of course, and we can say: When did it appear? Was it seen in any commitment during the eight years when you were in power? Have we seen in any proposals at all how to move forward on this issue? Of course, we need to work together and go into depth on some issues, with accurate information. We continue to fight for the release of Gui Minhai. We have done this over the years, and we continue to fight tirelessly for his cause.
i-36e7d133990149b4-190	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, I think that this is important, and I do not think that there are any major differences there. It is important that we emphasise democracy and both the rule of law and the fight for media freedom. That is why it is good that we should pronounce the names. They'll never forget. Secondly, as far as nuclear weapons are concerned, I would like to remind you, in all humility, of the work that took place during the years of the alliance, not least on the track that I see the Foreign Minister himself now opening, namely the NPT, the Non-Proliferation Treaty. It is important that we try to safeguard regimes that have so far proved to be decently successful, which have a great deal of backing for several states and which, not least, involve the nuclear countries themselves. As I understood earlier, the change of line here, the distance from the nuclear ban and the German offer and the participation in the Security Council work in April, this is a step in the right direction. What is sometimes a problem, Mr President, for Social Democrats when we discuss foreign policy, is that they become so offended when others have views and opinions. I tried to say a little kindly that it is good if you sometimes tone down your own self-image and not automatically dismiss the others. It is of course a rhetorical figure that I use when I say: Come home, get in balance and come to insight. But there are also a few points that I hope the Foreign Minister may take to his heart with a little more humility.
i-36e7d133990149b4-194	Mr President, I would like to We always choose in foreign policy declarations how to do it. Should we mention names, and should we just mention one name, two names or should we mention the names of all those we are actually trying to help? This is always a balancing process, and one can choose one or the other. It's been done in a little different ways. But I chose to describe how we work tirelessly for all those people who are now actually imprisoned or in different ways need our consular support. I'm not offended at all. I really only asked for a few examples, because it's always easy to mess with someone else. But where are our own proposals on how to advance our positions in these areas? I find it difficult to accuse someone of actually wanting to follow a clear line or launch something that we have done with a feminist foreign policy and which is actually something that stands out. It's leading the way in the world. I don't regret any of it. I think we should continue to be seen.
i-36e7d133990149b4-196	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you very much. Now the Minister for Foreign Affairs is well aware that we are also trying to make a contribution to the Swedish security policy debate with our commitment to a Swedish NATO membership. That is what we believe contributes to greater security. Then it is dismissed from the Social Democratic side. But it does not deprive us of the right to believe that this actually contributes to greater security. I mean, I'm serious. I also believe that the contribution we have made, which I do not necessarily think is too conflict-seeking, is the emphasis on the northern flank as part of our natural family. The Nordic countries, the Baltic States, the Baltic Sea region, Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom are the obvious room for action. Properly handled, I do not think there need be too great differences in this. Nevertheless, I would like to point out, Mr President, that we are contributing constructively to a security debate by being a clear voice for Swedish NATO membership. We also contribute constructively by emphasising Northern Europe as our natural arena for foreign and security policy.
i-36e7d133990149b4-198	Mr President, I would like to I applaud and appreciate Hans Wallmark's clarity about Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak. I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs was a little too unclear, and I am glad that she corrected it in the last line-up. Mr President, I would like to Another point raised by Mr Wallmark in his speech was his concern about populism. At the turn of the year, right-wing populist Bolsonaro was installed as President of Brazil. The Bolsonaros government has more military ministers than the government that it had under the military rule after the coup in 1964. Two out of 22 ministers are women, and one of his sons has joined Stephen Bannon. In addition, Bolsonaro has had time to legalize the possession of weapons, open up for exploitation of protected areas in the Amazon rain forests, and move the Brazilian Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. He has renounced Brazil's host for the UN climate summit this autumn. You could say that he is a climate sceptic in short. In the motion Freedom, Peace and Development in the World from last autumn, Hans Wallmark and the Moderates wrote: ..................................................... This was confirmed by the Moderates one month after Bolsonaro was elected president and two days after he cancelled the climate summit. Yet one of the areas that the Moderates specifically point out is what they want to cooperate on precisely the climate. The obvious question is therefore: Why do the Moderates want to cooperate more with a right-wing populist, and why do the Moderates want to cooperate on the climate issue with a climate sceptic?
i-36e7d133990149b4-203	Mr President, I would like to The test map of the policy of Brazil's new president, which Håkan Svenneling described, is directly unhealthy. I think most people in this House agree with that. On this point, I am perhaps a little more traditionalist, a little like Foreign Minister Wallström. If you are to have a functioning diplomacy and a functioning foreign policy, you sometimes also have to speak and interact with countries and regimes whose opinions you do not share. We cannot completely escape the fact that Brazil is a significant country in South America. If we also look back at their history, they have also had some turbulence in the past, if I put it that way. I think the former president is currently in prison. If we look at Brazil's history for a long time, there is undoubtedly much to be said about. But we cannot escape the fact that Brazil is a significant country and that there is every reason for us to have a diplomatic exchange with it. I also assume that if you work in the climate area, for example, there is reason to push forward the Swedish positions. They are very far from those that Håkan Svenneling described as Bolsonaros.
i-36e7d133990149b4-205	Mr President, I would like to I think that the concern Hans Wallmark expresses for right-wing populism echoes rather empty if he then in the next step wants to cooperate with a right-wing populist. One of Bolsonaros's most famous signs is that he imitates an automatic weapon when he often speaks of his political opponents. In 2017, Brazil was the country to which Sweden exported the most arms. The Swedish-Brazilian contract for the JAS fighter aircraft connects the governments of Sweden and Brazil for a long time for mutual dependence. It has been very active to get through this deal and helped Saab with it. A total of SEK 40 billion has been guaranteed, which Brazil has received in loans in order to be able to afford to buy the JAS plan and also weapons from South Africa and Israel. The risks are now great that Swedish weapons are used to violate human rights and create unstable Latin America. The question is, Hans Wallmark, why should we export more weapons to right-wing populists.
i-36e7d133990149b4-207	Mr President, I would like to We have a regulatory framework for this. In addition, we have changed the regulatory framework in the near future, that is, last year. So we have very clear rules, including a democracy criterion, for the export of armaments. As far as I am aware, the deal made with Brazil is approved, and I have no other task than to continue. With the Swedish regulations that we have, it means making an overall assessment between what is Swedish interests and the democracy criterion. However, and I think that honour Håkan Svenneling, what he describes is still a gradual deterioration of the condition in Brazil. There is every reason to follow it with great attention.
i-36e7d133990149b4-209	Mr President, I would like to Costa Rica, Mauritius, Mongolia, Brazil, Argentina, Panama, Ghana, Trinidad and Tobago, Senegal and Botswana are countries that have one thing in common. When Freedom House has made its freedom ranking report for 2018, all these countries have more freedom than Hungary has. As of 2018, Hungary is the first EU country to no longer be categorized as free, or as Viktor Orbán himself puts it: the time for liberal democracy is over. And that is the case, at least in Hungary. What is worrying is that the Hungarian ruling party Fidesz is part of the EPP group, which includes both the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, and presents a joint candidate for President of the Commission. I am well aware that Mr Wallmark dislikes the events in Hungary as much as I do and that several representatives of the Moderates – no later than yesterday – have clearly highlighted their dissatisfaction with the EPP's treatment of the Hungarian party. However, it is highly problematic that a party that has the fight against liberal democracy should be allowed to be a member of the Moderate and Christian Democratic Party Group in the European Parliament. Among other things, the Swedish Free Moderate Student Association has exercised to exclude Fidesz from the EPP. I would therefore like to ask Mr Wallmark the following: are you prepared to support the Free Moderate Student Union and to act to exclude Fidesz from the EPP?
i-36e7d133990149b4-212	Mr President, I would like to It's new times-- it's not always liberals asking for a line on you. However, I appreciate the new scene that has been taken in this House. I say a little as I said in the line with the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Anyone who has a party with no guilt throws the first stone. There are cooperation parties even for Alde who do not have the very best history behind them, for example in Romania. Now I am not standing here for someone to throw a stone so that I can pick up another one and throw it back, but I think we all have reason to think about the developments in some European countries. Hungary is such a country – I share that picture – but, as I highlighted, we can see similar developments in Romania, Slovakia and Poland. So it is no secret that there is a discussion about party families, although it is still quite internal. I believe that, after the May European elections, we will perhaps see changes – not only in the group to which my party belongs, the EPP, but also in the group to which Fredrik Malm belongs, namely the Alde Group. A so-called "emergency candidate" has been developed for the EPP. I voted and worked actively for the Finnish candidate Alex Stubb. I think he would have been an excellent person for the job of bringing Europe together as President of the Commission.
i-36e7d133990149b4-216	Mr President, I would like to In the run-up to the European Parliament elections, which will take place later this spring, I think it is important for the parties here to clarify their fundamental positions and views on important issues. I asked for a reply to the Foreign Minister earlier, and it was also about the European Parliament. I can feel that it is reasonable to do the same with the Moderate Coalition Party in order to get some clarification. It is true that there are concerns about parties in all the groups in the European Parliament, and there is now a process going on within the Alde Group that will sort out exactly what is going on in the Romanian party that is involved. But regardless of the concerns in Romania and those stories, although the challenges there are great, the government of Romania has not made it clear that liberal democracy is seen as the greatest threat or, above all, what it wants to combat. This is the case in Hungary. The question is therefore: will the Moderates take action to exclude Fidesz from the EPP group?
i-36e7d133990149b4-219	Mr President, I would like to As Mr Malm said, I believe that all of us, not least Swedish parties active in the European party groups, have a lot to do. It is both a matter of fighting for our positions and of marking against other parties. When it comes to the fight against liberal democracy, we can put it rhetorically, which is a serious matter. But it can also be done by trying in various ways to introduce regulations that would tolerate or accept fairly widespread corruption. I would like to say that we are then working in a spirit that is fundamentally quite contrary to liberal democracy. For me, liberal democracy is the rule of law, freedom of the media, the fight against corruption and functioning, strong institutions. I therefore believe that we in this House can unite in the fight for and support for liberal democracy, Mr President – both in words and in deeds.
i-36e7d133990149b4-222	Mr President, I would like to The feminist foreign policy was a great success during the last parliamentary term. In our foreign policy relations and where we can push, the government has clearly emphasised that women's rights and freedoms need to be one of the key points. Unfortunately, today we see not only that women's rights are progressing rather slowly, but we are also seeing a decline. In fact, women's rights and freedoms and women's rights to their own bodies go back and are even more threatened today. At the same time, the Moderates say no to feminist foreign policy. I would therefore simply like to ask Mr Wallmark what it is that the Moderates find so provocative to stand up for women's rights and to see women's rights as human rights.
i-36e7d133990149b4-224	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I've been thinking a lot about this. I think that the reason why many of us have reacted is the very words, because there is something placard political about them – and also something quite self-famous. I remember that during the general political debate a few months ago it was a young, new Social Democrat – Aylin – who gave his maiden speech. It was a very good maiden speech, in which she developed feminist foreign policy. I commended her for her contribution, not so much because of the rhetorical formulations but because of the content. I think we should think about that sometimes, that is to say that what the government is expressing is basically not an extraordinary attitude. Rather, it is quite normal Swedish common sense. The further away from Europe you get, the more you can see that the Swedish position on gender equality and on using the entire population instead of just 50% receives respect and attention. I think we should be proud of that. Then we can discuss what kind of marketing slogan we should have, and I think perhaps it is better to have something modern than anything that has more of placard politics on it. The fact that Sweden stands up for women's rights, that Sweden stands up for gender equality and that Sweden stands up for us to use the whole society is not, however, block or party separation. It is not social-democratic or environmental-partisan, but it is very much a safe, Swedish value that I think most parties join – with or without the wording that the government has chosen to use.
i-36e7d133990149b4-228	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hans Wallmark! I am, of course, pleased that we agree on these rights and that the work for more equality in the world is common. If we need a modern expression and if a feminist foreign policy does not live up to it, then I look forward to another strong proposal on which we might be able to agree. The fact remains that since we launched this and went on a broad front, it is, as the Foreign Minister said earlier in the speaker's chair, that several countries are following. We also see that Sweden's foreign policy has a much greater focus on women and women's rights today than it had before. Even if you think it's common sense to make sure that you use the skills and knowledge of your entire population and ensure that their rights are met, that's not the case in the world. We also know that words matter, and when you emphasise what is most important, there is a focus on it. You become a leader, and more follow. I look forward to the Moderates also following us along that path.
i-36e7d133990149b4-231	Mr President, I would like to It's not like the Moderates are following someone else. What I really want to emphasise is that it is about fundamental Swedish values, and I think that should shape our foreign and security policy to a greater extent. When it comes to the definition, it is a question of considering what the Swedish interests are. What are the Swedish values? That is what should form the basis of our policy. I fully agree that gender equality and making use of society as a whole is an extremely important and central Swedish value, but there are also other key values and interests. However, in view of the fact that this is the final shift in line with my speech, Mr President, I would like to remind the government side of this very point that it should be summed up in: Come home, get in balance and get to grips!
i-36e7d133990149b4-234	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, global developments are rather bleak today. Hardly Islamism is spreading, and we see the spread of sharia even in Western Europe. We see that more and more countries are opting for an authoritarian direction and that China is taking an increasingly important role globally. At the same time, we see how the free world often folds when weak groups need our support. In these times, it is worth Sweden standing up for free trade, for close cooperation with other countries and for our principles, which are based on our self-evident rights. We must never accept state-sanctioned repression or the violation of international law by states such as Turkey and Russia. We're supposed to be a global player to count on. Today, unfortunately, we are seeing a number of worrying trends, which have also been highlighted here in Sweden. After almost six years under the unpopular President Nicolá Maduro and twenty years under a socialist regime, the people of Venezuela have had enough. The people, who during most of Maduros's rule have been ruled by decree, have lived under enormous economic difficulties and widespread state-sponsored abuse. Demonstrators have been injured and even killed. While several countries chose to recognise opposition leader Juan Guaidó, the Swedish government was relatively silent. Although Maduro can hardly be regarded as a constitutionally legitimate president, Swedish MEPs from S, MP and V chose to vote against the proposal to recognise the elected opposition leader. Only after the EU recognised Guaidó was a modest support from the Swedish Government. Last autumn, attention was paid to the state-sanctioned hunt for homosexuals in Tanzania. This is a country that in 2017 received more than SEK 1.1 billion in aid, which corresponds to 0.26 percent of the country's bni. Tanzania is the single largest recipient of Swedish bilateral assistance. In the past, the Swedish government has chosen to freeze aid to Tanzania after attention has been paid to corruption and other irregularities, but now the government apparently finds it perfectly legitimate to continue with generous support to a country that actively oppresses sexual minorities. Palestine, too, receives enormous amounts of aid, even though it is clearly and for a long time revealed how the corrupt PLO actively pays salaries to terrorists and indoctrinates children and others with anti-Semitism. They name schools and other things after terrorists and encourage people to become martyrs. Here, too, the government is passive, despite the fact that this obviously both complicates the peace process and dilutes extremism. After Swedish Säpo, at Danish request, stopped Iranian security from carrying out a planned murder in Denmark, the Danish government chose to take urgent action, such as calling home its ambassador. Denmark received clear support from the United Kingdom and from the United States. Not surprisingly, however, it was relatively quiet from Sweden, despite the knowledge that Iran's security services do not hesitate to carry out murders and terror in Europe, primarily directed at exiles, and that it has been a threat to our part of the world for 40 years. The list of things that have happened in connection with which the Swedish Government has acted slowly or has not acted at all can be done much longer. Mr President, I would like to Foreign policy is about different forms of development and about humanity. It concerns international trade, environmental cooperation, the promotion of democracy and stability and the creation and preservation of fundamental human rights and freedoms. In short, foreign policy is very important, which is why this foreign policy debate has a very high status in Sweden. Recently, the Swedish debate has been largely dominated by news about the January agreement. In this agreement, reforms concerning, for example, care for the elderly, health care and the judiciary were sparse, and this is very serious. Perhaps even more surprisingly, only one point touched upon the area of foreign policy. S, MP, C and L want Sweden to spend 1 percent of GDP on aid. You heard correctly: the 1% target and placard policy are the most important thing for these parties. Where the money goes is less important for S, MP, L and C. The most important thing for these parties is that enough money is sent out of Sweden to other countries. Mr President, I would like to In fact, in this single point concerning foreign policy, there is an addition; it must be acknowledged. In particular, it intends to promote a stronger focus on democracy assistance. I have great respect for the desire to speed up democratisation in the world, not least when we see country after country now moving in an increasingly anti-democratic direction. However, this is also an example of how you have started in the wrong end. The link between aid and democracy is very much discussed and complex. Clear research shows that democratic aid is relatively inefficient in order to achieve democratic social development. The well-cited scientist Stephen Knack of the World Bank has stated that the relationship between aid and democracy is weak and that it is clear that many other factors, such as education, health, development – not least economic development – and the absence of war and conflict – play a very important role in promoting democracy in a developing country. Unfortunately, this is precisely what has to stand back when we are actively promoting ineffective measures. Without literacy, education, security and such things, it is extremely difficult to increase democracy. Mr President, I would like to I have spoken several times before about the importance of foreign policy, and I have – perhaps a little naively – believed that this is a vision shared by all Swedish parliamentary parties. However, thanks to the January agreement, we see in black and white that apparently not everyone thinks foreign policy is particularly important, even though we know very well that it is the government that, so to speak, owns foreign policy and that the majority of Parliament has a very limited space. C and L have shown here that they fully leave walkover to S and MP in the field of foreign policy and fully accept that these parties are offered full control over Sweden's foreign policy. Mr President, I would like to I find it embarrassing.
i-36e7d133990149b4-252	Mr President, I would like to In about two weeks' time, it will be four years since the death of opposition leader Boris Nemtsov, literally in the shadow of the Kremlin – an extremely despicable act. It sheds light on the development that we are seeing in Russia with restrictions on democracy and in the form of the threat that it poses to other countries. Therefore, I would like to ask a very open question: what is the daily course of the Russian policy of the Swedish Democrats? What is one's attitude today? I say this because there have been a few different statements. There have also been a few different trips – your former defence-political spokesperson suddenly appeared at a conference in Moscow, where the Putin circuit tried to gather a number of like-minded people. After all, the defence political spokesperson ended outside your party; I will be completely honest with that. He ended up in an alternate movement. But still! Would it be possible for Markus Wiechel to develop, in the two minutes available, the Russian policy of the Swedish Democrats as it is at present?
i-7qadreoqjAqQXn5FuzKXUu	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Wallmark, for the question. We are very clear in our Russia policy. We have a great motion on Russia in which we advocate increased sanctions, precisely because we are concerned about developments in Russia and have been doing so for a long time. Among other things, my party colleague Björn Söder has written on his blog about how he warned about the development we saw when he wrote the first defence policy programme for the Swedish Democrats in the 1990s. This was particularly true of military disarmament in Sweden. This was a disarmament that the Moderates unfortunately contributed to in a very comprehensive way. I would even like to welcome Mr Wallmark to join the Swedish Democrats in implementing the Magnitsky legislation, for example, which is something that we have also exercised here in Sweden. Our view of Russia is clear. We are very critical of the authoritarian, anti-democratic direction that we are seeing the country move in. We have repeatedly condemned the repression practised in Russia and by Russia in other countries and find it totally unacceptable for them to interfere with and violate international law by entering Crimea, for example, and earlier in Georgia and other areas.
i-36e7d133990149b4-259	Mr President, I would like to I may not fully review the line taken by the Swedish democrats, but I still believe that it is far more unclear to the general public than what Markus Wiechel has now presented. There have been some mysterious travel activities, not necessarily just to Russia – there are other countries where Russia has a significant interest, for example in Syria. Nevertheless, it is a good thing that Markus Wiechel is expressing the concern that Russia is a cause for. I also believe that what the Committee on Defence came up with in its interim report Resistance, to which I referred in my speech, namely that a conflict in our neighbourhood cannot be ruled out, must lead to a number of operational conclusions. Continued strengthening of the Swedish defence is one of them. I believe, unlike the Swedish Democrats, that we would also gain greater security and be able to secure peace in our neighbourhood through NATO membership. My view of Russia leads to a number of operational conclusions that the Swedish Democrats lack.
i-36e7d133990149b4-263	Mr President, I would like to If we are to begin with our former defence political spokesperson, he chose, as Hans Wallmark said, to leave the party and join another party. I think there were several reasons for that. As far as NATO is concerned, the Swedish Democrats, as I mentioned earlier, have always been in favour of the reconstruction of Swedish defence, which is a fundamental condition for us to be able to defend our territory. And it is only we who can have a strong interest in defending our territory. But we are also proposing a defence cooperation with Finland, which would ensure our entire area. When it comes to NATO otherwise, it is a great alliance which is now quite fragile and whose two largest countries, Turkey and the United States, are ruled by leaders such as Erdo and Trump. Moreover, in Syria we have seen NATO countries indirectly fighting each other. I don't know if this is Hans Wallmark's view of a stable alliance to enter, but it's not a vision that I share.
i-36e7d133990149b4-266	Mr President, I would like to I can understand that it may be difficult for the Swedish Democrats to think that they should not have influence in all areas of government policy. That is what was dreamed of by the Swedish Democrats when they voted in favour of an M-KD budget and so on. From our side, we are clear. We have set out a number of points in the January agreement and are a clear opposition, so we have not negotiated the foreign declaration, for example. It stands for the government. Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to hear when the Swedish Democrats and Markus Wiechel talk about democracy. What is the view of democracy that the Swedish democrats stand up for? Is it liberal democracy or is it Orbán's view of democracy expressed by the Swedish Democrats? Mr President, I would like to As the Swedish democrats now cut back on aid, I hear a voice or two saying that development in the poor countries leads to people being able to move, perhaps migrate to Europe and perhaps to Sweden. This is something that the Swedish Democrats do not want to see. Is that why the Swedish Democrats cut the aid budget?
i-36e7d133990149b4-270	Mr President, I would like to No, we are lowering our aid budget for the simple reason that there has been a very irresponsible economic policy in Sweden in recent years. Despite the boom, we have seen major problems that are likely to get worse, not least now that we are facing a recession. This is something that I had hoped more parties would take seriously. After all, Sweden is our primary responsibility as Swedish parliamentary parties. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of helping people who are having a difficult time, not least through aid. That is why, year after year, we have had Sweden's most generous aid budget after the other parties have made their accounts. We are therefore very much in favour of helping people who are having a difficult time, even people who are very poor and prone to leave their countries of origin. I would say that the Center Party lacks credibility in view of the agreement. If foreign policy had now been so important, it would at least have raised a point other than the 1% target in the aid framework. I do not see how one can criticise the government with the knowledge that it is actually the government, as I said earlier, which owns foreign policy. We cannot do much in this House when it comes to Sweden's foreign policy, and the Center Party knows that. Nevertheless, this has not been highlighted in the January agreement. With regard to Viktor Orbán, I do not know whether we have ever expressed any support for the criticised reforms that Orbán has carried out, otherwise Kerstin Lundgren will be happy to correct me. And is Orbán's party a cooperation party for the Swedish Democrats? No, it's not.
i-36e7d133990149b4-274	Mr President, I would like to It would be exciting to hear what the Swedish Democrats stand for in terms of democracy. It is obviously not about Maduro, and that is a good thing, nor about some others that were affected earlier. But I do not hear any criticism of those who are taking the fight against the liberal democracy that we have built, which served Sweden and Western Europe so well and which is the basis for the work of the whole of Europe. Is this what the Swedish Democrats now want to enter the EU and try to change together with Fidesz and the forces that really want to dismantle our liberal democracy? The answer to the question must come, Mr President.
i-36e7d133990149b4-275	Mr President, I would like to What Kerstin Lundgren refers to, liberal democracy, as far as the European Union is concerned, seems to be supranationality, that is, the direct opposite of democracy. Instead, the Swedish democrats advocate what the Center Party may feel as a local policy: that we should be close to the people. That is why we want to reform Europe from within so that decisions are taken by the right decision-makers, not by bureaucrats in Brussels, but here in Sweden by the people who are actually affected by the decisions. Otherwise, when it comes to democratic work, we have our own motion in this area, in which we advocate, among other things, a new association of democratic countries. We have repeatedly expressed the importance of free media and democratic rights for all citizens, really everywhere in the world. That view is not very unclear, but if it is understood, I would be happy to clarify it further.
i-36e7d133990149b4-277	Mr President, I would like to We have been able to read recently that the Swedish Democrats have shifted their position in relation to the European Union. It is clearly no longer appropriate to pursue the issue of a Swedish withdrawal. This is, of course, to be welcomed. Whether it depends on political strategy and tactics or whether it is due to a renewed commitment to European cooperation remains to be seen so far. If I have understood correctly, the starting point for Sweden's criticism of the EU has largely been based on a principled approach to internationalism and supranational decision-making. Now that this is clearly considered acceptable in the context of the European Union, it would be interesting to know what applies in other contexts of international cooperation. In the area of security policy, the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, the Center Party and the Liberals, are running a Swedish NATO membership. The reason for this is that few countries today manage on their own when it comes to defending themselves. Building security requires cooperation and collaboration in different ways. My question is whether, following the reversal of the EU, the Swedish Democrats can also consider changing their views on a Swedish NATO membership.
i-6r2iXQ1rPA6Vhj7j9xVkpj	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Adaktusson, for the question! When it comes to the security policy area – just as I mentioned in a previous replica – it is primarily us here in Sweden who care about the security of our territory. Then we have repeatedly highlighted the importance of creating a defence alliance with Finland. We are happy to have good relations with NATO. We want to see developed cooperation provided that Sweden can preserve its freedom of alliance. We do not see NATO as a guarantor of our security. As I also mentioned earlier, we have a great need to upgrade our own Swedish defence. Let's start there!
i-36e7d133990149b4-284	Mr President, I would like to It sounds like the Swedish Democrats still have a way to go when it comes to the importance of international cooperation. I note that the party on this issue is on the same side as the left side together with the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left party. If the Swedish Democrats really want to demonstrate an international commitment, it is impossible to get away from international cooperation in security policy. The fundamental question that must then be put to Markus Wiechel is: Do the Swedish Democrats believe that security is best and most effective through international cooperation?
i-36e7d133990149b4-288	Mr President, I would like to The answer is very clear: Yes. We are very open to good relations with all the countries of the world. We're going to have a dialogue with everyone, just like someone here earlier said. This applies to open democracies, well-functioning countries or countries similar to Sweden. We should have a dialogue with all the countries, and we can do so in several ways. We can use the EU that is now there to discuss with other countries. We are also a warm supporter of the UN, even if not everything works perfectly. This also applies to the Council of Europe and so on. Talks with other countries are essential if we are also to promote diplomacy and democracy in the world.
i-36e7d133990149b4-292	Mr President, I would like to In recent years, Russia has conducted war exercises and mobilised hundreds of thousands of men. Nuclear attacks on Sweden have been practiced. From Kaliningrad, Russia can now reach most of our country. At the same time, Russia is now ranked in Freedom House's freedom ranking index lower than Kazakhstan. With the uncertainty in our neighbourhood and in Europe, the Liberals realise that Sweden's defence ambitions must increase. It is gratifying that the Swedish Democrats also want to increase defence appropriations, but they do not seem to do so in the light of developments in Russia. In the election movement, the party chairman of the Swedish Democrats, Jimmie Åkesson, was asked whether he could choose between Vladimir Putin and Emmanuel Macron, and he could not. Mr President, I would like to In the Swedish Democrats' budget motion, Russia is mentioned only twice. That is as many times as NATO is mentioned. The Swedish Democrats do not seem to want to make any distinction between these parties, but refer to the tension between them. When you read the texts of the Swedish Democrats and listen to your party chairman, you seem to equate NATO with the Russian aggression that has attacked two neighbouring countries in ten years. So the question is: Which actor do the Swedish Democrats consider to be the greatest risk for Swedish and European peace? Is it NATO or is it Russia?
i-36e7d133990149b4-298	Mr President, I would like to I and the Swedish Democrats as a party have been clear that Russia is the biggest security policy threat to Sweden today, at least as a nation. Then there are other forms of extremism that are also a problem. But Russia is by far the greatest threat.
i-36e7d133990149b4-300	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Then the logical follow-up question is: why do the Swedish Democrats so much work against and against NATO? If Russia is now the greatest threat to Swedish security, a rapprochement with NATO and future membership should of course be the logical consequence of this. We are seeing today how the security structures in Europe are being undermined and challenged by Russian action. It is very important to strengthen NATO cooperation, not least in our part of the world, given the security dimension of the Baltic States. Mr President, I would like to Markus Wiechel is not an insignificant minions in the Swedish Democrats, but there is still one who is higher up in the hack order, and that is the party chairman Jimmie Åkesson. He clearly could not choose between Vladimir Putin and Emmanuel Macron. I understand that Markus Wiechel is prepared to choose, but when the party chairman is not prepared to do so, the question will be: What does a vote for the Swedish Democrats in the European elections later this spring? Does that mean a vote for seeing the threat that Russia now poses, or does it mean something else?
i-36e7d133990149b4-304	Mr President, I would like to Now this isn't about not being able to choose. It goes without saying that our party chairman would choose a democrat over an authoritarian leader like Vladimir Putin. However, it is a question of saying that when you can say passport you are happy to say so. These are two leaders who in different ways govern a region in a supranational way. But, of course, the democrat is chosen over the anti-democratic. When it comes to military cooperation with NATO, I have said before that I do not see how we would in any way oppose NATO. However, we are not open to joining NATO. But we are happy to cooperate with NATO or NATO countries, not least with our neighbours. This is absolutely out of the question with regard to Russia.
i-BKcCXmxhG6A7iF3fruMtLr	Mr President, I would like to There's an audience! Sweden's foreign policy should ensure both the lives and health of the population and the foundations of our society. Our democracy, human rights and independence of the judiciary are being challenged today. The free world is shrinking before our eyes. The structures we have built are being undermined. It takes us to gather together to strengthen counter-forces. 70 years ago on the ruins of the genocide and crimes against humanity of the Second World War, the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights were formed – this to ride a bar from totalitarian repressive regimes, against fascism, Nazism, anti-Semitism and dictatorships, to prevent people once again being divided up according to ethnicity, religion, skin colour and sexual orientation for persecution and crimes against humanity. Freedom House reports that the democratic development of the world for the 13th year is going backwards, not only in new but also in old democracies. The same applies to the spread of corruption, and the links are undeniable. Sweden has an important role to play with like-minded countries to stand up for the liberal values on which our prosperity and freedom are built. We will do so together in the Nordic countries, in the EU and by developing the transatlantic link with Canada and the US. We will of course, notwithstanding Brexit times, safeguard and develop cooperation with the United Kingdom. This spring's European elections are really about the future of the fundamental values that we have signed up to. The Trojan horses are stepping again. We hear them far away, but still close, in the form of Xi Jinping. We see how Putin, Erdo 中 an, Alijev, Orbán, Kaczy ń ski, Salvini, Strache with followers seek to attack the foundations of our prosperity, our democracy and our Europe. 70 years ago Europe was divided. The Iron Curtain was pulled down to the east towards our open, free and democratic countries. The closed, unfree communist rule dictated by the Kremlin held Eastern Europe in an iron grip that was clearly manifested with the Berlin Wall. 70 years ago, a Nordic Defence Association was discussed. At that time NATO was formed. Sweden chose them both for neutrality. That's when. Today, we have taken a stand, left neutrality, joined the EU and expressed solidarity if anyone attacks our Nordic neighbours or other EU countries. After the fall of the Berlin Wall 30 years ago and the fall of the Soviet Union and Communist parties in Eastern Europe, Sweden experienced freedom from threats and chose to join the EC together with Finland. Our security situation is not good. This requires Sweden to seek solutions for a new era. Not only can we cooperate militarily with Finland in times of war, form an alliance, but we must build up the Northern Dimension with the Nordics-B alticum, with the EU and as a member of NATO. We expect military support, but then we must give our neighbours guarantees. We do so through NATO membership. Only then will we create clarity about our position and help to raise the persistent thresholds in our part of Europe and to build peace. This applies both to the Baltic Sea as well as to the Arctic and northern Europe. Sweden will eliminate threats together with others. The threats may be different, but they are highly military. It is easy to see that alone is not strong. Sweden should not be a grey area between NATO friends and Russia. Today it is Putin Russia that Swedish military alliance freedom serves well. That party must stop. Together with our friends, we must build security aimed at deterring Russia from both threats and military attacks. During its term of office, Sweden should aim to apply for membership of NATO, preferably together with Finland. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants to see a nuclear-free world. This can only be achieved through balanced, credible and verifiable disarmament by continuing to work for the NPT, the IAEA and test-stop agreements and by seeking to strengthen them. Sweden shall not accede to the Nuclear Ban Convention voted in favour of by the Government. Now the government's investigators have also come to that conclusion. We have seen Russia making nuclear weapons part of a conventional military conflict, how the INF agreement has been undermined and has now been terminated by both parties. This is a reality that affects our neighbours and partners and that affects us. The Center Party does not want Sweden to be forced again to adapt and become the target of Russian threats. We have seen how the Kremlin under Putin with corruption, propaganda and hybrid warfare has tried to stop countries' free choice of approach to the EU and NATO. This year, when we celebrate ten years with the Eastern Partnership, there are Russian military forces in South Ossetia, Abkhazia, Crimea and Eastern Ukraine. Russia went from threats to invading and occupying parts of Georgia and Ukraine as well as illegally annexing Crimea. Today, it is waging war in Donetsk and Luhansk. The Center Party wants to see a continued and strengthened sanction regime until Ukraine has its territory. We emphasise respect for Georgia's territory and want a Magnitsky legislation in place after the poison murder and the Kerchsund attack. Madam President, I would like The EU is Sweden's most important foreign policy arena. By strengthening the voice of Europe, we can go further in defending our values and protecting our citizens and our interests globally. Sweden and the EU will stand up for free trade, sustainable conditions and a market economy, as well as for an EU that takes the lead for the major cross-border challenges and for environmental and climate work. The UN is a cornerstone of foreign policy for Sweden and the EU. International law must be upheld and the work for peace, freedom and reconciliation supported. Agenda 2030 is a roadmap to global development. Sweden, in collaboration with the EU and like-minded people, will develop an effective and modern development policy based on Agenda 2030. The dawn of freedom shall be made visible. The Center Party takes responsibility by promising that 1 percent of Bni will be secured to contribute to democracy, strengthen human rights and freedoms, eradicate poverty and save the climate. When others choose protectionism, Sweden will be an active voice for openness in the EU and the world. When others choose to reduce women's rights, Sweden will help to strengthen them. When others try to destroy the right to choose who you are or who you want to love, we will assist in strengthening LGBTI people's equal rights. Sweden will and cannot do everything. The Center Party will promote focused and strategic assistance, increased bilateral assistance and increased priority for the poorest countries, gender equality, education and climate. We stand up to strengthen democracy, transparency and tolerance. Madam President, I would like Sweden should take responsibility for inclusive sustainable development. A sustainable world for our children and grandchildren is still possible.
i-36e7d133990149b4-324	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren has in recent years had quite extensive criticism of the foreign policy that the government has conducted. Much of the criticism has been shared by the Swedish Democrats as well as by many other parties, such as the Liberals. Nevertheless, as I have mentioned before, the Center Party has chosen to release the same Prime Minister who was able to form a government like the one he led during the previous parliamentary term. In other words, the Center Party has left walkover to the Social Democrats and the Left Party to govern Sweden's foreign policy. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, the only thing that has been mentioned in the agreement that has been made is that aid should be at 1% of GDP. It is a little strange that the objective of aid has only been to set a certain percentage instead of a specific activity. Should we not have effective work to achieve a specific objective? Is that not what aid is intended to achieve? I find it very strange that more or less unrequired and as the only proposal in the agreement chooses to spend 1% of GDP on aid.
i-36e7d133990149b4-327	Madam President, I would like The Center Party had to choose between two evils. One was to release a government in which the Swedish Democrats obviously would not have just a small finger in the game. When I hear Markus Wiechel, I understand that they want a big finger or the whole hand on the wheel of a government. It was not something we were prepared to contribute to. We stand for liberal values and for a policy that has made the Swedish Democrats clearly see us as their main opponents. That's why. Madam President, I would like I hear Markus Wiechel is talking about percentages. But I read in Markus Wiechels's own actions and I also see a percentage there. It is lower than ours, but it is still a percentage: 0.75% instead of 1% of bni. The fact that we have chosen to go this way is, of course, that we have cooperation on the budget. Is it something that this House and Parliament will have to decide on is the level of aid, and we have made that clear because it is an important signal for the future? Madam President, I would like While I'm having a change of line with Markus Wiechel, I'm interested in hearing about one thing. He mentioned that they want an alliance, an alliance, with Finland. How can Markus Wiechel and the Swedish Democrats then consider that Sweden should be militaryly non-aligned?
i-36e7d133990149b4-331	Madam President, I would like Let me start with what the line shift was about. Kerstin Lundgren talks about two evils and refers to Ulf Kristersson and Stefan Löfven respectively as Prime Minister. It is these two evils that the Center Party apparently had to choose from. It is very clear now that the Center Party elected Stefan Löfven, the Prime Minister who spent four years criticising. The criticism was also very harsh. They chose him anyway because they don't trust their own ability to listen or talk to other parties in the Swedish parliament or to ask themselves what different changes they want to have in order to release a government. Two evil things – it's nice that Kerstin Lundgren makes it clear that it's about Ulf Kristersson and Stefan Löfven.
i-36e7d133990149b4-334	Madam President, I would like This is because we have heard about, read about and seen the policy of the Swedish Democrats. We also see what friends they have in the European context and the message that comes about illiberal democracy, which one sees as one's opponent. For the clear reason, Madam President, we do not want to see a government which, in every situation, depends on the vote of the Swedish Democrats. That's the reason. If we had had a different election result, so that the Swedish Democrats could not have got their hands on the steering oar, the situation would have been different. We did not choose between Ulf Kristersson and Stefan Löfven. We chose between a government based on the voice of the Swedish Democrats and a government based on a liberal voice. That choice was simple.
i-36e7d133990149b4-336	Madam President, I would like The Center Party has historically been a clear voice for a nuclear-free world. For a long time they were against nuclear power, but there they have turned. Now it also seems that one has turned in one's view of nuclear weapons. The Center Party does not believe that Sweden should sign the UN Convention against Nuclear Weapons. Kerstin Lundgren made that clear in her speech. It is felt that this runs counter to our defence and security policy interests, as it is said in a motion from last autumn. We are now also clearly in favour of NATO membership, as we heard Kerstin Lundgren say, although we do not think that NATO should be allowed to introduce nuclear weapons into Sweden. As late as 2014, Madam President, the Kerstin Lundgren of the Center Party wrote: a time when nuclear arsenals are being renewed requires strong and clear voices for disarmament from more countries in Europe. Nuclear weapons have not yet been captured in a convention. The time is therefore ripe for Sweden, together with like-minded countries, to move forward and work towards a Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Now that nuclear weapons have been captured in a convention, the Center Party no longer wants to sign one. I think the reason is spelled N ‐ a ‐ t ‐ o. When the Social Democrats waver over NATO, the Swedish Right is clear. Joining NATO is more important than banning nuclear weapons. Together with Trump, Orbán and Erdo中an, you want to use weapons to defend our democracy and freedom, instead of putting an end to the worst weapon humanity has invented. During Kerstin Lundgren's long period as the foreign policy spokesperson of the Center Party, the Center Party has clearly turned right and aligned itself with the bourgeois ranks. Why is NATO membership more important than a nuclear-free world for you, Kerstin Lundgren?
i-36e7d133990149b4-342	Madam President, I would like Swedish security is important for the Center Party. That is the starting point. The world today does not look like it did even ten years ago. What happened in 2014 has certainly opened the eyes of many people to Russia's readiness to use nuclear weapons in a military conflict. You see nuclear escalation as an opportunity. From our side, we've been clear. We want disarmament, have a long-standing commitment to nuclear disarmament, have highlighted the issue of tactical nuclear weapons and so on. But if we are to enter into something, it must be effective for disarmament; that is the conclusion we have drawn. And is there something that is quite clear that the ban convention that is now on the table does not provide a basis for disarmament? It is more a placard protest convention than a tool that leads to disarmament. This does not lead to security, not for us in Sweden, not for our neighbours and not for those with whom we cooperate. On the other hand, it gives Russia an opportunity to continue to sabotage international agreements.
i-36e7d133990149b4-344	Madam President, I would like Not even the Centre Party voters agree with Kerstin Lundgren. 93 percent of them want Sweden to sign the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. In 1998, seven countries formed the NAC, the New Agenda Coalition, to work together for nuclear disarmament. Sweden was a member until 2013, when Carl Bildt left the cooperation. All countries that are part of the NAC today, except one, have either signed or ratified the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. When Sweden left NAC, Kerstin Lundgren said: It is important that this does not send out a picture of Sweden re-prioritising the nuclear issue. ..................................................... Now we can see that the Center Party has re-prioritised the nuclear issue. The Center Party prioritises deterrence through nuclear threats in the NATO military alliance over disarmament. That is why you want to be part of NATO's nuclear umbrella. Then the important question is: When does the Center Party mean that nuclear weapons should be used to protect Sweden?
i-36e7d133990149b4-348	Madam President, I would like What is obvious is that the Left Party does not see the security of Sweden and our neighbours as vital. For our part, Swedish security and the safety of our neighbours go first. We must relate to a reality that is different now than in 2013. That's what we've done. We see that we are building security. We're not just reading one investigation, we're reading several investigations. I recommend the two previous investigations into Swedish security by Bertelman and Bringéus. They clearly show that we are in a new security policy situation in the Baltic Sea region. We have to deal with this. That is why it is even more important that we do not go down the road of a Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, when we see that it does not lead to disarmament but merely becomes a statement of protest from those countries that do not have nuclear weapons.
i-36e7d133990149b4-349	Madam President, I would like The richest percentage already owns as much as the other 99% owns together. It is in this inequality that many of the world's problems are based. If our financial resources were to be more evenly distributed, the poor would have food, schooling and health care, while the super-rich would not be able to burden the climate through private aviation and luxury consumption. The annual increase in wealth of the dollar billionaires would be enough to eradicate poverty seven times over. We need a world that is for everyone, not just for the richest. That is why we need a policy of global equality, a policy that stops tax and capital flight from the world's poorest countries and meets the growing debt crises. Aid should have high ambitions. The aid budget shall amount to at least 1 % of GNI. In addition to this, we need additional climate aid to combat climate change. The Left Party will be a clear opposition to the government, because we are the Left Opposition. Madam President, I would like The war in Syria has now been going on for almost eight years. While much of IS has been beaten in ruins, the war and violence risk taking off again when Turkey threatens Kurdish Rojava. The Kurds are the ones who have fought IS the hardest. Turkey is now a country that has completely left the path of democracy. The authoritarian President Erdo中an imprisons and oppresses oppositionists. This affects the Kurdish minority in particular. For the Left party HDP, the entire party leadership has basically been imprisoned. Many of them have the same mission as us: to be parliamentarians in opposition. The situation in Yemen is a human tragedy. After the Saudi-led coalition launched an armed attack on the country almost four years ago, the situation has developed into the worst humanitarian disaster in the world. Nevertheless, the wars and terror of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates against the people of Yemen have not had any major consequences. Arms exports have continued as usual. Once again, we have seen how money and oil go before human rights. But after the brutal murder of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi, it's like the world got its eyes open. The question is how many Yemeni lives the Swedish arms exports have cost. The peace talks give a little hope that 2019 could be a better year for the Yemeni people. But Sweden needs to clean up in front of its own door. Future arms exports to countries must be suspended. Another of the major regional powers of the Middle East, Iran, is continuing its hard line against anyone who tries to speak or organise themselves trade unionally. In 2017, Iran executed more than 500 people, according to Amnesty. Only China was worse. For 1,214 days, the Swedish citizen, author and publisher Gui Minhai have been imprisoned in China. The case of Gui Minhai is more than a common consular matter. Foreign Minister Wallström has been very sparse about her statements on Gui Minhai, and neither in this year's debate did she raise the issue until a change of line. According to a UN report, in the Xinjiang region of northwestern China, some 1 million Uighurs are in indoctrination camps. When religious and popular minorities are oppressed, whether in China, Myanmar or Russia, our critical voices must never be silenced. In Russia, we see President Putin developing in an increasingly authoritarian direction. The opposition is oppressed and imprisoned. Freedom of expression and the rights of minorities and LGBT people are greatly repressed. At the same time, President Putin is taking an increasingly tough international line. In Ukraine, the border between war and peace is blurred in a grey-scale hybrid war with the illegal annexation of Crimea and eastern Ukraine. The blockade of Kerchsundet is the latest example of how Ukraine's freedom and trade opportunities are restricted. At the same time, there will be more proxy conflicts between Russia and the United States, just as if the days of the Cold War were back. With Trumps's tweeting, we have got a leader who creates unrest and conflict and who spreads hateful rhetoric. The attacks on the right to abortion are interspersed with war rhetoric and deviated from multilateral cooperation. Trump is trying to change America's role in the world. At the same time, he changes the view of which leadership is rewarded. In Trumps's world, it is the strong authoritarian leader who is best in both democracies and dictatorships. For those of us who want to see another world order, it is important to stand up. We shall stand up for the good conversation, dialogue, human rights and a multilateral world – and above all for peace above arms and military threats. The shrinking space for oppositionists, human rights defenders, journalists and civil society at large is a growing challenge around the world. The support of the world must be there for those who raise their voices for a better world. At the same time, we see strong opposition emerging. There are widespread feminist protests against restricted abortion rights in the wake of the Metoo. In January, the biggest strike of world history took place in India when up to 200 million workers went on strike for two days for higher wages and better working conditions. More and more right-wing governments are now taking their place on the Latin American continent. Latin America is still a violent and very unequal continent where you can be killed for your views on the environment, soil or politics. In Brazil, the right-wing President Bolsonaro has installed himself. He is pursuing extreme political rhetoric against his opponents, and his favorite sign is to imitate an automatic weapon. In 2017, Brazil was the largest buyer of Swedish arms exports. It is time for Sweden to consider whether to pursue the planned arms exports so uninhibited. In the years following the turn of the millennium, millions of Venezuelans were lifted from poverty as the economic gap narrowed. If for many years it was possible to see both progress and setbacks in Venezuela, developments in recent years have been unequivocally negative. Venezuela can no longer be described as a democracy. The economy has collapsed, and responsibility for development rests heavily on the country's political leadership. The starting point of the Left Party is our solidarity with the Venezuelan people. That is why we stand up for the Venezuelans' right to express their views, to participate in demonstrations and to elect their leaders in democratic elections. The presidential elections in May 2018 were not free and fair. In the current tense situation in the country, the outside world must call for dialogue and reconciliation between the parties. The aim must be to hold new democratic elections. The threat of the United States increases the risk of a bloody escalation. Madam President, I would like At the same time, cooperation in our neighbourhood is more important than in a long time. In a troubled world, you should keep your friends close. Despite the fact that right-wing populist parties have come to power in several of our neighbouring countries, there is a fundamental community of values and security interests that are important to protect. Today, on the African continent, where some of the world's fastest growing economies exist, there are both successes and setbacks. Mozambique, Angola, Lesotho and Seychelles have decriminalised same-sex relationships, making life easier for LGBT people. In Ethiopia, the new Prime Minister has developed democracy and given the opposition better opportunities to operate. After 20 years, there was finally peace between Ethiopia and Eritrea. Unfortunately, however, there is no light for the journalist Dawit Isaak, who has been imprisoned for 18 years. At the same time, the development of democracy and human rights is going in the wrong direction in Zimbabwe, Uganda, Cameroon and Tanzania. In May, Sweden is facing an EU election. Around Europe we see the Conservative Right taking power with the help of far-right parties. In Sweden, we have managed to resist once again. Europe has never been as rich and at the same time as it is now. The EU response to the financial crisis is even more of the right-wing policy that created the crisis. The growing inequality has created a breeding ground for nationalists and racists who want to restrict democracy. With the help of the right, they take power in Europe through rhetoric and a policy that kicks down. That is why the European elections on 26 May will be crucial; it will be a clear choice between left and right. Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister has today made the foreign policy declaration. Sweden is now governed by the right-wing settlement of the Social Democrats. The Left Party will be a clear left-wing opposition to a fairer, more equal and more equal world.
i-36e7d133990149b4-370	Madam President, I would like I was going to give Håkan Svenneling an opportunity to develop the day-form of Left Party views on Venezuela. In his speech, Håkan Svenneling realised that democracy has been curtailed in Venezuela. Therefore, it would be interesting to hear when he feels that the restrictions began. The truth is, Madam President, that already on Hugo Chávez's days with Chavism – we are talking late in the 19th and early 21st centuries – organisations like Freedom House came to the conclusion that the country's government was heading in the wrong direction. They were about to dissolve Congress and the courts. In practice, what we have seen is that Venezuelan socialism has betrayed its people and destroyed its country. We are talking about 1 million percent inflation, and we are talking about 3 million people who have left Venezuela. In this situation, the Left Party has a party leader who, in 2013, after a proven rigged presidential election, writes on Facebook that he congratulates Maduro on his victory. The following can possibly be denied if it is a wrong task, but I have seen that some left-wing clubs in Sweden are spreading a drawing of a reaper knocking on the door of a number of countries to spread democracy and freedom. Out under the doors flow blood. The Lieman also carries as by chance the lien in the form of an Israeli flag. Now they knock on Venezuela's door and want to offer democracy and freedom, and under the door the blood risks flowing. Madam President, I would like My question to Håkan Svenneling is therefore: What is the day-listing when it comes to the view of the left-wing party on the Venezuela of socialism?
i-36e7d133990149b4-374	Madam President, I would like I always appreciate the clarity of the Swedish right when it comes to Venezuela. One can always count on the Swedish right as soon as something happens in Venezuela raising its voice and directing sharp criticism against the Left Party – this despite the fact that we have not supported the Venezuelan regime but rather have exactly the line I spoke about in my speech. About 3 million people fled Venezuela last year. That's 10% of the population. Inflation amounts to unimaginable 1 million per cent, and poverty has increased sharply in recent times. The international community agreed that the 2018 elections were not free and fair, and it is a picture that the Left Party shares. Maduros's mismanagement of Venezuela is a departure from democracy, and restrictions on fundamental rights burden him, his government and his leadership. But his lack of democracy does not make it obvious that Juan Guaidó should be recognised as the legitimate President. According to the Left Party, it is the people of Venezuela who will elect their president. This was done in the 2013 elections, when Maduro was elected. When you chose 2018 there were much bigger problems in the election movement that was then conducted; it did not go right and really to. That is why the Left Party believes that new elections should be held and that that would be the best thing. But there must be a line between Guaidó and Maduro and choosing between these two. We must be able to say that, in order for new elections to be held, talks and dialogue are the best way forward, rather than constantly increasing the level of conflict between the parties and with this the risk of bloody escalation. I don't want to see the reaper come to Venezuela. All I am fighting for is for the Venezuelan people to have the right to humanitarian aid, the right to dignified lives and, above all, the right to free and democratic elections.
i-36e7d133990149b4-378	Madam President, I would like I do not agree with Håkan Svenneling, and I regret that he does not see what is really happening in Venezuela. It is not in any way equivalent parties, and it is not mediation. One is a corrupt regime that does exactly what Håkan Svenneling describes – 3 million people are on the run, and that is an inflation of 1 million percent. The second is the only political institution which today has legitimacy, namely the National Assembly and its President, Mr Guaidó. What is also interesting about the Left Party, except that Håkan Svenneling does not want to comment on his party leader's possible praise to Maduro at the election, is that this has not arisen in a vacuum. It is not bad luck that causes Venezuela to be betrayed and destroyed. It is because it is a conscious political project that has been going on for decades and is going back to the late 90s, when Chavism dissolved Congress, threatened the courts and restricted freedom.
i-36e7d133990149b4-380	Madam President, I would like I guess this is the problem. The Swedish right wing never sees the progress that actually took place in Venezuela. Venezuela is a country where the gaps are huge between the poor and the rich. What happened during Chávez was a lot of progress in reducing the inequality that existed in Venezuela and that is still there. The gaps were reduced, and many people were lifted out of poverty. But everything was far from perfect. Chávez did not address the issue of men's violence against women, but he included the indigenous people for the first time– it was a positive part. You never want to see the positive parts. Support was given to the attempted coup which the United States had already carried out in 2003. It stopped Chávez, and instead he continued with a policy to close gaps between people. Then Venezuela has not done well. Maduro was elected, and then many of us in the left were hoping for a new development in a positive direction. But Maduro never managed to live up to it. I understand that Jonas Sjöstedt congratulated Mr Maduro on his first election, but today no one in the Left Party congratulates Mr Maduro on his policy.
i-36e7d133990149b4-382	Madam President, I would like I listened to Håkan Svenneling to hear how he is taking a stand today, if he can choose between Maduro and Guaidó. Obviously, the Left Party does not want to make that choice. It says quite a lot about the way the Left Party is going in terms of democracy, standing up for human rights and standing up for the elected representatives in the National Assembly and for the constitutional leaders of the National Assembly, who also as the legitimate leader have the task of holding elections, which should be appreciated by the Left Party. But the Left Party cannot choose. It's talking.
i-36e7d133990149b4-383	Madam President, I would like It is quite telling what a democratic view the Center Party and Kerstin Lundgren have when they think it should be the Swedish right wing that should decide who should be the president of Venezuela in front of the Venezuelan people. Because in practice it is what happens when one says that a choice has to be made between Maduro and Guaidó and that there is never a line in between. I believe that there is and that is the line that we should support in this country instead of recognising a person as President who is not elected President. Guaidó is a guy who has been elected with 1 00 000 votes in a country with 33 million voters. He would not even be able to cope with the four per cent barrier in the Swedish parliament. Yet you think it would be better for the international community to become President. I think that what Mrs Wallström has said and has been clear about the need for new elections to be held in Venezuela is central. That would be great. But the Swedish right and Trump above all breathe all the time in a craving for Guaidó to rule and the right will gain power in Venezuela. This is the problem of the right over and over again when you look around the world. It looks more at who governs the country and whether it is a left-wing or right-wing government than whether that government represents democracy and human rights and tries to level out differences between people and inequality. That's what makes me think I don't have the right to choose. I do not have the right to choose whether it should be Maduro or Guaidó, but I have the right to press on from the international community to get us to talk and dialogue and ensure that there are democratic elections. Now the Swedish government has recognized a guy who did not even want to go to Montevideo and talk to the contact group. I think it is quite clear that one still believes that one can take power, either through the military, an American intervention or in some other way that risks becoming a bloody escalation of the conflict. I never want to see that.
i-36e7d133990149b4-387	Madam President, I would like This is not a matter of right or left. It is the Venezuelan people who have been deprived of their national assembly because Maduro has stopped it from working. It is a people who have lost their human rights and every opportunity to have a functioning rule of law. I think the Lima Group meeting in Ottawa was valuable. Canada was there as the initiator of many of the Latin American states in order to highlight the importance of actually having a fair choice. The only thing that can secure that election is if Mrs Maduro is not in the lead, but it is the National Assembly, entirely in accordance with the Venezuelan Constitution, that is to say that such an election takes place. That choice should also be made by the left-wing parties.
i-36e7d133990149b4-389	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren is right about one thing. It was when Maduro took power away from the National Assembly that he made the great democratic mistake. Then he left the path of democracy completely. There's nothing else to say. The fact that the Lima Group would be some kind of neutral party when it is made up of right-wing governments from North and South America who have not wanted to overthrow Maduros's government in Venezuela for many years is an incorrect description. I believe that what is serious and that we need to see here and now is that the Social Democracy is changing Swedish foreign policy now based on its new partners. In the past, the Social Democrats were clear that they recognised states and not people. But now they have turned, and it is during the adaptation to their new partners C and L that this turn takes place. If they had instead been with the Left Party, they would have clearly stood up for international law, let the Venezuelan people decide and actually not recognised a person who had not even passed the parliamentary barrier.
i-36e7d133990149b4-392	Madam President, I would like This autumn it is 30 years since the Berlin Wall fell. It was a historic event in all respects. Germany was reunited, and people's longing for freedom defeated the oppression of Communism. What happened was amazing. Former dictatorships were transformed into democracies under orderly conditions and became members of the European Union. Only since Sweden became a member of the EU have over 100 million people who previously lived under Communist oppression been integrated into the cooperation that stands for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. After the fall of the Wall, the Left Party changed its name in 1990 from the Left Party Communists to the Left Party. This does not prevent leading members of the party from continuing to define themselves as communists. Some of them are even in Håkan Svenneling's parliamentary group. It is also clear that the ideology models are still there. In the left-wing party corridor in the European Parliament, idol portraits hang on Marx, Lenin and Hugo Chávez alongside party symbols with the hammer and the sickle. The party group includes the Communist parties of Europe. My question, Håkan Svenneling, is: Why has the Left Party 30 years after the fall of the Wall not settled with its history?
i-36e7d133990149b4-396	Madam President, I would like This summer I had the privilege of visiting Berlin on my holiday and could see all the historical monuments over the hard times that have passed. What struck me most was that when the Nazis took power and introduced Nazi Germany, it was the left who suffered first. Parliamentarians representing the Left Party and the Social Democrats were removed before they could have the so-called majority in the German Bundestag, vote through their policies and take power. It became a clear memory for me. Lars Adaktusson is trying to give the impression that there are still Communists in the Left Party. It's only been a few months since we got a new Parliament and Lars Adaktusson stepped in. But I still think I know my 27 party friends so well that I can say that no one in my parliamentary group calls themselves a Communist. I'm proud of that. At the same time, it is fun to see how the Right is trying to paint a picture of the fact that there is still something Communist over the Left Party. Especially in the report from the European Parliament referred to by Lars Adaktusson, attempts are being made to give a picture that Marx would be some mass murderer by pasting labels on him. It is sad when you black out one of Europe's greatest thinkers of all time. He was a man who travelled between different cities in Europe, thought about classless society and how we could actually get it more equal between people. He didn't kill anyone. Maybe he took a cold and took a beating. But that was the only thing, and he himself was behind it. Hans Wallmark said it very well: Anyone who first picks up the stone and throws something in the second party group also takes the first step towards something that breaks quite quickly. We see what it's like in all party groups. Lars Adaktusson has been sitting next to Fidesz in his group for many years. That is how it is in Europe. It does not look like Swedish politics. Sometimes I think we go a little too far trying to hunt each other with our sister parties in Europe.
i-36e7d133990149b4-401	Madam President, I would like Attack is the best defense, they say. It worked like that in Håkan Svenneling's case. Fidesz is a party from which there is reason to reject it. It is a party that represents, among other things, the politicisation of the judiciary and restrictions on freedom of the press, that is, central political functions. We need to be open about this. That is why I believe that Fidesz does not belong in the EPP Group. I have said this to the representative of Fidesz, I have presented it to the leadership of the EPP and I have expressed it in public. Within the EPP, there is now a discussion, a debate and an evaluation of how the issue should be dealt with. We'll see where it lands. But, as I said, our view is clear. Having said that, I still have a brief question. Does the Left Party really think that Fidesz, with its great wrong political decisions, is ideologically comparable to communism?
i-36e7d133990149b4-404	Madam President, I would like It is fundamentally good that Lars Adaktusson rejects Fidesz. I hope he will be happy on the day they hopefully leave the EPP, just as I was happy when the Greek Communists once left our left-wing group. It should be understood that the Left Party Group in the European Parliament is a Confederal Group. This means that we are working together on our common denominators. But we do not have a party whip or anything that says that all parties in the group need to think the same thing. This means that when the GUE/NGL statements are made, as the group is called, I do not automatically agree. For me, it is a good cooperation for a left in Europe, to cooperate with the parties closest to us. We have seven parties with which we cooperate more closely than with those on the extreme left. It's hard to compare Fidesz to an ideology. In fact, they are not even worth being in such a comparison. But it is clear that Hungary is no longer a democratic nation. I am very concerned about this development.
i-36e7d133990149b4-407	Madam President, I would like The Parliament has two flanking parties. One is to the far right, the Swedish Democrats, and the other is to the far left, the Left Party. The two parties have had considerable concerns about dealing with Sweden's membership of the European Union. Recently, representatives of the Swedish Democrats went out and said that the party does not intend to pursue the issue of a Swedish EU exit, i.e. a svexit. And before that, Jonas Sjöstedt has toned down the Left Party's demand for an EU exit, not because it liked the European Union better, but because it felt that it should not pursue the issue as long as the Swedish Democrats did. But now the Swedish Democrats have made it clear that they intend to stop pushing the issue. Then the question is whether the Left Party should begin to tone up the demand for a svexith again. The question will be: if you vote for the Left Party in May, will you vote for cooperation in the EU, or will you vote against cooperation in the EU? Madam President, I would like We can recapitulate a little. Two years ago Håkan Svenneling wrote an article about svexit. It was time for SwEXIT! There he wrote that the Left Party could set a left-wing agenda for demands... for a new referendum on the EU. If two years ago Håkan Svenneling thought that the question was, so to speak, feasible, the question is what Håkan Svenneling thinks now. Does Håkan Svenneling still believe that Sweden should leave the EU? And is a vote on the Left Party a vote for an EU exit, or is it a vote for us to be in the European Union and improve the situation on our continent?
i-36e7d133990149b4-412	Madam President, I would like I will start with the second question about what the Left Party thinks, and the answer will unfortunately make Fredrik Malm a little sad. Because I can't answer that. Our representatives decide at a conference this weekend when we decide our election platform for the EU elections. Our member democracy works in the way that it is the representatives at our conferences who decide and not Håkan Svenneling, who is a foreign policy spokesperson. After the weekend, however, I promise to have a clear line on exactly what the Left Party thinks. That is what this weekend's discussions should be about. I think that the SD argument mentioned by Fredrik Malm, that we would somehow adapt on the basis that SD would agree with us, is the worst argument of all in this discussion. For us, it's not much about what SD does, thinks or thinks. We treat them very little as a party. For us, it is simply a question of what development is like in Europe if we are not to pursue this demand on a temporary basis. I am glad that Fredrik Malm has found my old article on svexit that I wrote two years ago. It's very readable. But I actually wrote an article yesterday, too. I promise to send it to Fredrik Malm. There I explain why I do not think we should have a bachelor today and why that is the line that I agree to the European elections conference on Saturday and that I intend to pursue there. It is about the fact that I think we are absolutely seeing a Europe where it must be easier than today to leave the European Union and EMU. But we also see the dangerous consequences of Brexit and the bad situation in which we are about to end up, that we can get an unsettled state of affairs. I am concerned that it will have negative consequences, both for the people of Britain and for Sweden. There is also another argument that is important to me. It is that the Left Party voters today are probably more EU-positive than they have been historically. As a result, we must also listen to them and see that we can make a clearer difference in Europe. That is why we intend to point out and push the climate issue as the most important issue in the European elections. At European level, much more can be done for the climate issue than is currently the case. I hope that a Liberal will be pleased that a left-wing party can say that.
i-36e7d133990149b4-419	Madam President, I would like The ability to change opinions separates the wise from the stubborn, it is said. This is true in Håkan Svenneling's case, if Håkan Svenneling now believes that Sweden should continue to be a member of the European Union. However, there is still a somewhat ambiguous message here from the Parliament's pulpit. Sweden has been a member of the European Union since 1 January 1995. This Union has brought peace to Europe for decades. It is a collaboration that has been built up on the ruins of what Stalin, Mussolini and Hitler destroyed. Through an internal market, through a European Parliament, a Commission, structures and slow and laborious work, we have united Europe's continent. When you ask the Left Party if they want to be part of it or not, they say: You have to wait until after the weekend when we are going to make decisions at a conference. It will be a very remarkable news on one of the biggest issues facing our country. You want to push the climate issue. But you still don't know if you want to be there. It's going to be something strange.
i-36e7d133990149b4-423	Madam President, I would like Unlike the Liberals, we have internal democracy. If we're going to turn in a matter of moving embassies or not, we'll let the members decide. That also applies to what we should think about the European issue, before we go out and tell it. I think we should leave the EU in the long term. I think that would be the best thing. But there are benefits to the EU that must also be seen: it is important to have a functioning market that works well, and it is important that there is free movement of people in a good way. It is an important reform that the EU has ensured. However, I do not agree with the description of this as the fantastic peace project, because we also see how, in the EU, in the federalists, there is a full noise that we should have a European army. That's what worries me. We see the deepening of cooperation in the field of defence, and the EU is increasingly becoming an armaments association and a defence association. It is a rhetoric that worries me rather than makes me think it is a project of freedom and peace. But, as I said, clarity comes after the weekend, Fredrik Malm. You'll have to calm down.
i-36e7d133990149b4-427	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin this speech by mentioning three people who did not get into the government's foreign declaration: Dawit Isaak, Gui Minhai and Ahmadreza Djalali. They're all accused of crimes they haven't committed. They are all imprisoned in brutal dictatorships: Iran, Eritrea and China. Over the years, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has worked for the release of these imprisoned compatriots. So far, that work has been unsuccessful. The quiet diplomacy has not worked. We all feel sorrow and frustration about this. Some of us believe that it is time to raise our voices and use other tools. Around this we may have different opinions, but one thing needs to be quite clear. Those who hope that Dawit Isaak, Gui Minhai and Ahmadreza Djalali will fall into oblivion hope in vain. From this pulpit, their names will be mentioned until the day they regain their freedom and those who deprived them of their freedom will be brought to justice. That day comes – the sooner, the better. Madam President, I would like The developments in Iran are worrying in more ways than one. It is governed, 40 years after the Islamic Revolution, by a regime that oppresses its population, which executes dissidents and which leads political development away from democracy. The overriding objective of government is power and hegemony, not only over its own population but over the Middle East. There is no doubt that Iran is a more destabilising force today than before. The extremist Shia-Muslim notions are a threat to an already severely tormented region. We see it in Lebanon. We see it in Syria. And we see it in Yemen. This underlines the importance of effective economic sanctions against the Iranian regime, sanctions that may need to be more – not less – comprehensive. At the end of January, the head of the Iranian Air Force declared Iran ready to attack Israel militarily. Brigadier General Aziz Aziz-Nasir-Zadeh made it clear that the young people of the Air Force are quite ready and impatient to confront the Zionist regime and wipe it off the face of the earth. The fact that in 2019 Iran has leading representatives driven by hatred and anti-Semitic delusions exposes a very dark development. Iran became a member of the UN before countries such as Sweden, Germany and Austria but is today one of the world's worst dictatorships. Faced with the existential threat from Iran and the increasing vulnerability of security policy, Israel needs the support of Europe and Sweden. At the same time, it is a fact that our country at ministerial level has no dialogue whatsoever with Israel. The government thus lacks the opportunity that has existed for a long time before to make Sweden's voice heard on important issues, such as the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. This is a serious weakening of Swedish foreign policy. The confidence of the world in our country is affected. But that's also strange. Not infrequently, other European foreign ministers have critical views on Israeli government policy. Yet they are welcome in Jerusalem. Sincere discussions are taking place. In important areas there is disagreement, but basically there is a community of values and mutual respect. So must Sweden's relationship with Israel also work. It is high time to re-establish relations with the only democracy in the Middle East. Madam President, I would like The promotion of democracy is one of the government's priorities during its term of office. One of the foundations of democracy is freedom of religion. Christians today are the world's most persecuted religious group. According to the international organization Open Doors, there is continuous harassment and abuse of Christians in over 100 countries. In the Middle East, we saw in 2014 how the persecution turned into the worst and most abominable crimes of international law: the genocide of Assyrians, Syrians, Chaldeans and Yazidians. Unlike a large number of Western democracies, the Swedish government refuses to recognise IS abuses as genocide. Similarly, despite a clear commitment before the 2014 elections, the government does not recognise seyfo, the Armenian genocide in 1915. This, Mrs Wallström, is to betray the most vulnerable, the victims of genocide and their families, but it is also to betray fundamental values of human dignity and humanity. Madam President, I would like During this term of office, the Christian Democrats will work for the EU to become the central arena for Swedish foreign policy. We say no to the so-called independent foreign policy and to the wurm of dictatorship states in the United Nations. In essence, Christian democracy stands for a value-based foreign policy that always gives the highest priority to human rights. That is an essential ambition. However, it is also an approach and a basic attitude which characterises positions and assessments and which today, Madam President, leads us to the conclusion that major changes and renewal of Swedish foreign policy are required.
i-QuZDoGWqX9P4no8g9MS23V	Madam President, I would like During the Oslo Process in 1994, TIPH, Temporary International Presence in Hebron, was set up to protect Palestinians in Hebron. This happened after a settler had shot 29 Palestinians dead during the morning prayer. The observer force consists of 64 unarmed observers from six countries, including Sweden. The Israeli Government has now decided not to extend the mandate of the observer force. Two incidents are considered to be behind the decision. An Israeli police officer has observed that a settler's car has been vandalized by an observer, and another has seen that a settler's boy has been slapped. The decision can also be a reaction to an internal TIPH report with severe criticism of the Israeli Government. It states, among other things, that Israel has violated international rules on how an occupying power should act and that the radical settlers make life difficult for Palestinians in the part of Hebron controlled by the Israeli army. The report reportedly has documented over 40 000 abuses and violations of international law for two decades in Hebron. At the same time, the World Council of Churches announces that, for security reasons, they temporarily terminate the presence of the ecumenical accompanying program in Hebron. Accompanying laws play a similar role, and by their mere presence as a third and independent party, they have prevented violent clashes and abuse. As they leave Hebron, the international presence is drastically reduced in one of the most conflicted areas of the West Bank. This is happening at a time when the Israeli human rights organisation B 中 Tselem reports that Israeli security forces have arrested at least 117 Palestinians, raided cities and villages, raided 161 homes and put up at least 146 mobile check points. What does Lars Adaktusson think about the situation in Hebron and about Israel's failure to comply with the Oslo agreement?
i-36e7d133990149b4-445	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that the situation in Hebron is one of the most complex but also one of the most worrying locations in this area. It has been a source of concern for many years. There has been violence in both directions and on different sides. There have been situations in which the civilian population, once again on both sides, has indeed suffered badly. This international organisation has been in place for a very long time and has been valuable. International presence – when it works – is important. This applies not only in the Middle East but also in other parts of the world. As far as the latest decisions are concerned, they are based on a clear and clear idea that these people who have been in place are no longer exactly what Håkan Svenneling said, namely impartial, but that they have become part of the conflict rather than observers of the conflict. If there is no confidence from one of the parties in such a situation, it will be difficult, if not impossible, to carry on the business in the future. Both parties have the opportunity to assess here whether these monitors should remain. Now Israel has made its assessment. I cannot judge to what extent the basis for this is good or bad. But the fact is, trust obviously does not exist.
i-36e7d133990149b4-449	Madam President, I would like I would need clarification from Lars Adaktusson : Does Lars Adaktusson mean that the Christian accompanying teams from the accompanying team program, which originates from the fact that the churches in Jerusalem asked the international community to come with international observers, are not impartial? Or does he feel that it is the strength that is not impartial? Does he think it would be good if the international presence came back to Hebron, or does he think it would be a better situation when there are no observers in place? We have recently seen the New York Times report that settler attacks against Palestinians have increased by 50%. This risks leading to an escalation of the conflict we see. At the same time, the Israeli right-wing government is rather cautious in its criticism of the settler movement, as it is an important electoral base in the parliamentary elections that have been brought forward to April this year, which is quite soon. The question is: How does Lars Adaktusson view the increased settler violence in the West Bank? What do we need to do about that problem if we now see that it exists?
i-36e7d133990149b4-452	Madam President, I would like There were many questions at once from Håkan Svenneling. Is international presence good? Like I said, I think it's important. I think that is essential in a situation where there needs to be a stabilising force. But it is based on the confidence of the parties involved in the conflict to be monitored. If that confidence does not exist and if those who are to supervise have become a party to the conflict, Håkan Svenneling also understands that there is a fundamental problem. With regard to the accompanying law programme and travel, there has been evidence for many years that they have abandoned impartiality, and I agree with that. I think so, too.
i-36e7d133990149b4-455	Madam President, I would like Venezuela is today a ruined country on the verge of collapse, and 3 million people have been forced to leave. The level of violence is among the highest in the world. The economy is beaten in ruins with inflation at astronomical levels. In 2017, six out of ten Venezuelans lost 11 kilos of weight as a direct result of the lack of food and supplies. The disaster in Venezuela shows that the authoritarian left-wing project in Latin America, involving the regimes of Cuba, Venezuela, Bolivia and Nicaragua, has only misery, poverty and oppression to offer to its inhabitants. The idea was that Venezuela's oil money would finance the spread of socialism, but Venezuela is now so mischievous that it is hardly able to drill its own oil. Responsible for the disaster in Venezuela is dictator Nicolá Maduro and the Caracas regime. The world around us must be very clear that free elections are to be held in Venezuela, that democracy is to be restored in the country and that accountability is to be brought to justice. Sanctions should be tightened up and Venezuelan democratic opposition strongly supported. Juan Guaidó shall be recognised as the legitimate leader of the country until elections are held. Madam President, I would like The government is clear in the foreign policy declaration that democracy-promoting Swedish foreign policy. That's a good thing. Liberals have been pushing for a stronger focus on democracy for many years. Democracy and human rights are prerequisites for peace and for a good society. But words commit, and the question is how the government will achieve this strengthened focus on democracy. What we have seen in the previous parliamentary term is that the issue of democracy and human rights has sometimes been placed on exceptions in foreign policy, and this year's foreign declaration does not mention, for example, Dawit Isaak's name, even though he is a Swedish citizen and political prisoner in Eritrea since 2001. The fact is that the government does not say anything in the foreign declaration about the dictatorship closest to Sweden, namely Belarus – Belarus. Sweden and Swedish civil society have a very important role to play in supporting the movement that wants to build democracy and freedom in Belarus. Unless neighbouring countries commit themselves to people who are persecuted, the work of democracy will be weakened considerably. If the government is serious about democratisation and human rights in foreign policy, more than fine words are needed. Madam President, I would like The war in Syria has been going on for almost eight years. It is a terrible bloodbath with hundreds of thousands of deaths and millions of Syrians who have fled within the country, to neighbouring countries and to Europe. The pillage and abuse have torn the country apart. Now the infamous terror sect Daish – IS – is completely militaryly defeated in Syria, but at the same time the Syrian regime under Bashar al-Asad-Assad remains in power in Damascus and continues to commit extensive war crimes. We are concerned that the US has now announced its intention to leave Syria and the Rojava region east of the Euphrates. But the tragedies in the region do not stop at Syria. We are seeing a much broader breakdown with widespread abuse, refugee flows and a humanitarian meltdown from Libya over Yemen to Iraq and elsewhere in the region. Another conflict that has been going on for a very long time is Israel – the Palestine conflict. The Liberals are behind a two-state solution, where a Palestinian state is formed with East Jerusalem as its capital. This also means that Sweden should recognise Western Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Sweden has had relations and exchanges with Israel for over 70 years, and it is reasonable that our embassy is also located in the country's capital. In Jerusalem there is the Israeli Parliament, where there is the government, the Supreme Court and the President. Sweden should therefore move our Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem at an appropriate time. Madam President, I would like The children in the world's refugee camps have no rule of law on their side. They have no right to vote. They often don't even have the basics: food, heat, shelter and security. But we have in Sweden. I'm not born in this country because I'm extra strong, smart or beautiful. I was born in this country because I was lucky. I was lucky to be born in a country of freedom and democracy. It follows a moral responsibility to stand as citizens of a free country for people who have never been as fortunate as we are to live in a democracy. We should step by step increase our support for humanitarian aid, for effective and long-term ambitious aid and for more countries to stand up for refugees and enable them to be integrated into a new country, into a new society, unless it is possible to return to the countries from which they have fled because cities are bombed, the fields cannot be used and the economy is beaten to waste. Then there's no future there. Then you must have the opportunity to build a new life in another country. It is no easy task to stand up for this in today's world, where populism and right-wing radical ideas spread. But that is precisely why, Madam President, this is so important because, through our decisions, our priorities and our commitment, we shape life and society for more than just ourselves. Madam President, I would like It will be impossible to create a positive development in the Middle East region, from which many people are fleeing today. It will be impossible as long as the destructive forces continue to dictate the conditions of the region. Sweden must adopt a tougher line towards states such as Saudi Arabia and the Islamic Republic of Iran, because those regimes and their alliances have a great responsibility for the downward spiral in the entire Middle East region today. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to emphasise that the Liberals are a party that takes responsibility for Sweden. In a time of increased polarisation and political lock-ups in the Swedish parliament, we have chosen to enter into a deal across the block border with the Center Party, the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party. Our agreement covers 73 points, but it covers foreign policy only at an extreme margin. In this area, therefore, the Liberals act as an opposition party. We criticise the government when it is called for. We are an independent party that develops our own foreign policy for increased democracy, strengthened freedom and a liberal, open society in Sweden, in Europe and in the world.
i-36e7d133990149b4-470	Madam President, I would like The Liberals and Fredrik Malm often highlight democracy and human rights – and their lack in some cases – in foreign policy. You should be commended for that; I think that is a good thing. Democracy and human rights are the cornerstones of Swedish foreign policy and should be so. For the Left Party, it is obvious never to compromise with democracy and human rights. It applies to everyone and everywhere. This applies to every crime, regardless of where, by whom or with what motives it has been committed. Fredrik Malm mentioned many human rights violations in his speech. However, he did not mention a Muslim minority that has been subjected to serious abuse, which has attracted much attention in the media over the past year, namely the Uighurs. The Xinjiang region of north-west China is described by Human Rights Watch as a police state where Uighurs are subjected to systematic mass violations of their human rights. According to a UN rappor t from August, about 1 million Uighurs, unbelievably many, are in indoctrination camps. On this it has been very quiet on the part of the Liberals. It was not mentioned in Fredrik Malm's speech, and the Liberals have not mentioned this minority in the Riksdag for eight years. You did it last time in a multi-party motion in 2011. The question is why the Liberals' commitment to human rights does not include the Uighurs. Why is it so quiet on that particular question?
i-36e7d133990149b4-475	Madam President, I would like I think this is a very important issue that Håkan Svenneling raises. Unfortunately, the Uighurs are also not mentioned in the foreign declaration, which the Foreign Minister has now read out. These are terrible persecutions committed against the population of Xinjiang – or East Turkestan, as the area has historically been called. We have seen depictions in the media, which Håkan Svenneling mentions, and also reports from the human rights organisations that have sounded the alarm about this and describe it as pure re-education camps, where one should somehow try to beat out of hundreds of thousands of people their Uighur identity. Of course it's absolutely terrible. On the Liberal side, we are clear that when human rights abuses are committed, Sweden should be a country with a clear, valued foreign policy that responds to this. I'd be happy to cooperate on that. Although we do not cooperate with the Left Party in very many areas, we are also happy to cooperate with the Left Party on these issues in order to highlight them and increase the pressure on Sweden and the EU to act in the UN and in other ways to pay attention to the abuses that are being committed. The Uighurs are persecuted in two ways, partly because they do not belong to the majority population in China and because they seek self-government and partly because they as Muslims form a religious minority. This means that they can be subject to double pressure from the authorities in China, which is also very serious and something that we must, of course, address and pay attention to.
i-36e7d133990149b4-479	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Fredrik Malm is now so clear in his rhetoric and also that he thinks that the government should do more on this issue. I hope that we can find consensus and consensus in the future and press the government to do more. However, I would like to return to the great news of the Liberals today, which Fredrik Malm mentioned in his speech. You want to move the Embassy of Sweden in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. It does not seem to have been a long or thorough preparation, but you intend to vote in favour of an individual motion by a Christian Democrat Member. The feeling you get is that you've come up with this a little bit at the last second. Jan Björklund tweeted a year ago that Jerusalem should be recognised as a capital city and Palestine as a state when a peace agreement exists. It is unwise to do any of this beforehand. Press both parties. So you are a little surprised now that the Liberals are swinging and want to join Trump and Bolsonaro. Poland and Hungary also think that this might be a good idea. It doesn't feel like it's your best friends who think an embassy move is so great. How will there be peace in Jerusalem when you want to throw gasoline on the fire?
i-36e7d133990149b4-482	Madam President, I would like It's a vulgar rhetoric to try to lump the Liberals together with Donald Trump. Sweden, of course, makes decisions about its diplomatic missions, and the reasonable thing in our view is that Sweden's embassies are located in the capitals of other countries. Sweden has had a relati oner and exchange with Israel for 70 years now, and it is reasonable that our embassy should be located in the capital of Israel – in the same way as the Embassy of Sweden after a peace agreement on an independent Palestine with East Jerusalem as the capital should be located in East Jerusalem. We stand very clearly behind a two-state solution to Israel – the Palestine conflict and look with great concern at all the forces that hamper the process of creating a two-state solution in different ways. For our part, it is reasonable that Sweden has good relations with both states and that our embassy is located in Jerusalem at the appropriate time.
i-36e7d133990149b4-484	Madam President, I would like From the perspective that the Liberals and Christian Democrats in the new political landscape have different functions here in Parliament and in relation to the government, I would like to ask Fredrik Malm a question. As far as foreign policy is concerned, we share the view on the vast majority of issues, and I have great respect for Fredrik Malm as a skilled foreign policy. The issues in which we share the same view are major issues. It is about developments in the Middle East, about Sweden's relationship with the European Union and about the importance of having a foreign policy based on European policy. We also share our views on human rights and the fight for democracy. But for this very reason, I believe that many who have seen the strong commitment of the Liberals to these issues are concerned and confused about the fact that the Liberals were prepared to release the present government without any condition or negotiation of foreign policy. I believe that, not least, those who are concerned about better relations with Israel are disappointed that the leadership of the Foreign Affairs Department and the Foreign Minister remains in office for another term of office, this time with the support of the Liberals. How does Fredrik Malm view this?
i-36e7d133990149b4-488	Madam President, I would like Ever since the parliamentary elections in September until January when they finally finished, discussions have been held. The starting point for the Liberals was that we wanted to seek support for an alliance government, but we also need to be realistic and see how the result of the elections was. If you want politics to be anchored in the middle yard and above all that Sweden should not be thrown into government crises during the term of office, it is important to have a majority constellation and a government basis here in the Swedish Parliament that allows decisions to be made in the future, without us being drawn against extra elections or major government crises. As a result, after talks, my party, the Center Party, the Green Party and the Social Democrats agreed on the January agreement that has now entered into force. However, I would like to emphasise that it does not cover foreign policy, as Lars Adaktusson mentions. This is partly because my party is probably closer to Lars Adaktusson's party than, for example, the Green Party and the Social Democrats on many foreign policy issues. We believe that we should take responsibility for the line we stand for and must be able to run it in the Swedish Parliament. Therefore, foreign policy is not covered by the agreement. In essence, however, it is the case that Sweden must be able to be governed and have a budgetary order and an economic policy that is solid. Now we are approaching a recession, and that means that all parties in the Swedish parliament have a responsibility to get stability in Swedish politics. We, the Liberals, have contributed to this and will continue to do so. In areas where we do not cooperate, we are in opposition.
i-36e7d133990149b4-491	Madam President, I would like The alternative that the Liberals decided on was not the only one to govern Sweden. At the same time, of course, I have respect for the Liberals' decisions, which are of course taken within and by the party itself. Politics is largely about ideology, values and fundamental views on how political decisions are to be made. My feeling is that when the deeper dimension of politics suddenly becomes negotiable in all respects something is lost, and I think the voters feel that confidence in politics is decreasing. Does Fredrik Malm think that you have not been able to compromise with fundamental values and principles in this settlement?
i-36e7d133990149b4-493	Madam President, I would like In Lars Adaktusson's first speech, I received a canonade of kind words and praise, for which I would like to thank you very much. I also believe, for my part, that Lars Adaktusson is an extremely competent and talented politician, with whom I am happy to cooperate in the future with regard to important challenges and the issues that our parties are pursuing together. Having said that, it is of course the case that the solution that the government issue now received in Sweden was not the only possible alternative. There were other options, but many of them were unfortunately blocked during the journey, which meant that our party ultimately decided, like the Center Party, to support the agreement between the four parties. Unfortunately, I do not believe that the fact that politics often negotiates, and for a party it is a question of standing up for its values and getting as much influence as possible on what it wants to achieve. On this point, I think that the Liberals and also the Center Party have succeeded very well.
i-36e7d133990149b4-496	Madam President, I would like The Liberals have today announced that they think that the Embassy of Sweden should be moved. This means joining the United States, for example, which has previously announced this. It was then stated that this is seen as a violation of international law and is contrary to the UN resolution, which makes it clear that the issue should be resolved in the context of a peace agreement. I am pleased that Fredrik Malm clearly says that the Liberals are still in favour of a two-state solution, but this approach is nevertheless problematic. I would like to ask Fredrik Malm how the parliamentary group has reasoned on this issue. The classic liberal attitude, which has been expressed by Maria Leissner on Facebook today, has been abandoned. What led the Liberals to abandon the traditional liberal attitude in order to join other countries which have a completely different basis for their position than international law?
i-36e7d133990149b4-498	Madam President, I would like We have not abandoned any fundamental liberal position at all. Liberals stand rock-solid behind the idea of a two-state solution. We would like to see a Palestinian state formed, but not on the ruins of Israel, I would like to point out, but alongside Israel. Such a solution can only be found through negotiations. At the same time, we note that Sweden has had relations with Israel for over 70 years now, and Israel is a developed state formation. Israel has a capital city, and that is Jerusalem. The Green Party can challenge this, but it is a fact. In Jerusalem is the country's parliament, where the country's President is located, the country's supreme court, the country's government and the country's central authorities. Then it is reasonable that Sweden also moves its embassy there. We are not saying that this should happen tomorrow, but at an appropriate time. This is quite different from what the state leaders say to which Janine Alm Ericson refers in her speech. It's pure vulgar rhetoric to try to connect the Liberals with Donald Trump. Everyone should know that the Liberals are very clear that we are a liberal party and certainly do not support the right-wing agenda that Donald Trump is running.
i-36e7d133990149b4-501	Madam President, I would like It is nevertheless a good thing that Fredrik Malm emphasises that they still have this attitude. At the same time, it is no wonder that after the decision that has now been made and the signals it sends, one is concerned. To say that this is vulgar rhetoric is a little to dismiss the concerns that actually exist. There is no reason to believe that this simplifies a solution to the conflict, rather the opposite. When the United States announced that they would move their embassy, Fredrik Malm's party partner Birgitta Ohlsson wrote that there was reason to believe that the move was made for domestic political reasons. I would like to ask Fredrik Malm if we can be absolutely sure that it is not the case that the Liberals want to push the issue forward and make such a drastic proposal to focus more attention on their own party and push away the problems of the parliamentary group.
i-36e7d133990149b4-503	Madam President, I would like I can only say that the Liberals are behind a two-state solution but believe that the Embassy of Sweden should be located in the capital of the countries in which we operate. Otherwise, Madam President, if this is to be emphasised here, I am representing the Liberals. I do not represent the United States Government. If Janine Alm Ericson has views on American positions on various issues, she can probably turn to the US Mission in Sweden, which is located in our capital Stockholm, I would like to point out.
i-36e7d133990149b4-504	Madam President, I would like We live in a world for which we all share joint responsibility. Our actions affect the conditions for people in other parts of the world as well as the conditions for future generations. Agenda 2030 with the 17 global goals for a sustainable world gives Sweden and the world a unique opportunity to combat poverty and injustice. But it takes courage and action. It requires that all policy areas work in the same direction and not counter each other. In this work, Sweden will have a leading role. The climate is the destiny of our time. Last year, heat records were set all over the Northern Hemisphere. Climate change is no longer a nasty scenario for the future, but they are here forcefully. Those most affected are those with the least resources. Some countries around the equator, such as small island nations, are in danger of being devastated by extreme drought or floods. Climate change also increases the risk of conflict, poverty and hunger. They also undermine human rights and are a growing cause of involuntary migration. Work to protect groundwater from disappearing, fields from drying out and homes from being devoured by the sea is an important part of Sweden's poverty reduction and has therefore gained a central role in our aid work. This work needs to be further strengthened. Madam President, I would like Sweden is the first country in the world to have a pronounced feminist foreign policy. This means that, in all contexts, the government will push forward gender equality work, even in those contexts where conservative and anti-feminist voices are loud. When President Trump introduced the global gag rule, which effectively strangled all assistance to organisations working on women's sexual and reproductive health and rights, we took the initiative for She Decides, who already raised EUR 181 million on the first day to enable these organisations to continue their important work. We must not settle until all girls and women have power over their own bodies. All battles for women's rights that generations before us have fought can no longer be taken for granted. They must be won once more. Madam President, I would like During the last parliamentary term, the Green Party pushed through the largest ever aid budget. I am pleased that the 1% target is now fixed during this parliamentary term. Sweden will not fail the most vulnerable. Our development cooperation and humanitarian aid will continue to create the conditions for better living conditions for people living in poverty and oppression. Madam President, I would like We are living at a time when it has become more important to strengthen and defend democracy, even at home in Europe. We see a loss of confidence in democratic institutions and a widening gap between voters and political elites. Journalists, civil society organisations, activists and human rights defenders are subjected to reprisals, and their ability to act is limited. In several EU Member States, the basic foundations of democracy are under attack. Right-wing parties are sitting on more and more seats in European governments and parliaments, challenging the value and legitimacy of democratic institutions. Today's authoritarian leaders often come to power by free elections. After that, democracy is slowly being dismantled. Their hateful policies threaten both people's rights and the sustainable transition that we must make. We must defend democracy, freedom of expression, freedom of organisation, freedom of the press and the rule of law. The EU should be a strong force for rights and justice inside and outside the Union. Madam President, I would like Today, over 65 million people are fleeing oppression, persecution, armed conflict and gender-based violence worldwide. There are greater flows of refugees than in any other time. Sweden is already the world's largest donor of core support to UNHCR's important humanitarian efforts, and we shall continue to be so. We know it will be challenging, but we must work hard to ensure that the EU's common asylum policy does not undermine the right of asylum or violate international conventions. Sweden will continue to be a major humanitarian power. Our assistance is needed. The humanitarian organisations are shamefully underfunded. Emergency aid is important to save lives and reduce suffering. But medicines, blankets and food packages will never be able to resolve the conflicts. It is therefore important that aid should also be directed towards the long-term prevention of conflicts and the prevention of relapses through strengthened peace-building. If we are to be able to stand up with legitimacy for a more peaceful and freer world, we cannot continue to export weapons to dictatorships. That is why we are proud to have agreed that our arms trade with the non-democratic countries participating in the war in Yemen will be stopped. Around the world, armies are being armed, and nuclear weapons agreements regulating the disarmament of the United States and Russia are being terminated. The Green Party has always worked and will always work for disarmament and for a world completely free from nuclear weapons. It is a policy we will continue to pursue here in Parliament, in the EU and internationally. It goes without saying to us environmental partners that human rights are universal. They shall apply to everyone, at all times and across all national borders.
i-36e7d133990149b4-520	Madam President, I would like There were a lot of big words from the Green Party in today's speech. Warm words were spoken of not to let down the vulnerable. There was talk of feminist foreign policy and so on. The latter, the feminist foreign policy, is more to be regarded as placard politics. It says quite a lot of Swedes today if you ask them. The government's policy during the previous term of office has hardly been something that has really benefited vulnerable women. I would like to take a few examples. During the Iran protests, we saw virtually no support from Sweden for the courageous women who stood up to Islamist repression in Iran. Furthermore, Sweden has supported Saudi Arabia's membership of the UN Commission on Women. Also with regard to the events in Afrin province in Syria, where Turkey brutally attacked peaceful Kurds, the government was relatively quiet. In addition, aid has been given to brutal Islamist groups, particularly in Syria but also in other countries, through assistance to, for example, Islamic Relief, an organisation linked to the brutal Muslim Brotherhood. My question is quite simple: does the Green Party intend to continue with assistance to, for example, Islamic Relief or other organisations that have close links with Islamic organisations?
i-36e7d133990149b4-525	Madam President, I would like I do not really know where the Swedish Democrats have been informed that feminist foreign policy would not have benefited vulnerable women. If you care to understand how support is distributed and how you work systematically with these issues around the world, it will be quite clear that feminist foreign policy and all its parts have made life easier for millions of women. There Markus Wiechel probably needs to read a lot. How Swedish aid and support is paid out is carefully controlled. Of course, it should not go to terrorist organisations or others who do not stand up for human rights, international law and other things. It's already been decided. If such things happen, there are controls. It is followed up and, of course, things are done about it. With regard to the examples mentioned by Mr Wiechel, I have no evidence either for or against, but I would really like to emphasise that Swedish aid goes to combating poverty, strengthening weak states and efforts to better deal with climate change that can affect poor states, for example.
i-36e7d133990149b4-528	Madam President, I would like As a Swedish democrat, I am a strong supporter of helping vulnerable people, whether in Sweden or in other countries. I would say that this is called a feminist foreign policy, but it does not really say much. During the years with Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister, huge bills have been made from the aid budget as a result of the refugee reception in Sweden. It is mainly about young men who come to Sweden and who lack protection as they have passed a number of safe countries. This is done at the expense of those people in refugee camps who need Swedish support, mainly women and vulnerable people. I do not understand how one can call this a feminist foreign policy, but the government has done so successfully. The organization Islamic Relief has received Swedish support. What exactly is the government's view of the Muslim Brotherhood?
i-36e7d133990149b4-532	Madam President, I would like It is good to hear that the attitude of the Swedish Democrats is to help vulnerable people, because we do not always get that view in the debate, where your representatives express many other things. As far as settlements are concerned, the Green Party is constantly struggling to make them as small as possible. Our basic position is that aid should go out into the world to help the poorest. Sometimes, however, settlements may be necessary, and we support the regulatory framework that exists within the OECD-DAC and comply with it. That by doing so we should leave women and children who need support for their fate is quite wrong. Sweden is one of the largest donors of emergency humanitarian aid, and that is why it is a bad argument.
i-36e7d133990149b4-535	Madam President, I would like For me, it was sweet music when Janine Alm Ericson talked about arms exports, and I was happy to hear that. The Green Party has also been clear that one of the party's victories in the 73-point programme was that there were clearer wordings about arms exports to the belligerent countries in the Yemeni conflict. However, it is a little vague when we talk about the principled approach of the four parties, but we can come back to that. It is almost four years since the Saudi-led coalition launched a bomb attack, and during almost the entire last term of office this war was going on. Even then, the Green Party was in the government. Then why didn't the Green Party act more clearly? Why did it take so long until this term of office to call for a stop? The Left Party has long demanded a stop. It was also the previous government that developed the regulatory framework for arms exports. However, that framework is rather unclear as to whether arms exports to dictatorships and human rights abuses are really being stopped. You also changed the right of asylum. The Green Party often prides itself on having its roots in the peace and asylum movement, but it rhymes a little bit with what we see in reality. Will the government really stop arms exports this time? Why didn't you do it last time? Why did you not come forward with clearer legislative proposals on arms exports if that is what you want? Give us something concrete! When is the Green Party really going to stop arms exports to the Saudi-led coalition?
i-36e7d133990149b4-540	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling is right that we have always been clear that we absolutely do not want any arms exports to dictatorships, and we have had that attitude for a long time. We also took this seriously in the negotiations on the new legislation during the last parliamentary term, but unfortunately we did not reach it all the way. We will continue to work to put an end to arms exports. A further step in this very important issue for us is now being taken in the 73-point programme of the January agreement, and we continue to fight for it until we have a better situation.
i-36e7d133990149b4-542	Madam President, I would like It is good that we want to move in this direction. Today, the decisions are taken by the ISP authority, but with regard to certain positions, the decisions can be left to the government to make it more clear. Will this be done in the case of arms exports to the Saudi-led coalition? It would then be clearer to show the principled attitude of the two governing parties, but also of all four parties in the January Agreement. Another consideration concerns the high profile case of the Air Transport Agency's subsidiaries, which cooperated with the United Arab Emirates. In practice, it turned out that an air traffic controller service provided military air traffic control to help the United Arab Emirates war in Yemen. Does the Green Party intend to put an end to all forms of cooperation with the warring states in the Yemeni conflict?
i-36e7d133990149b4-546	Madam President, I would like We will have to come back to the future when the issue is to be dealt with, because I do not have an answer to that today. I don't know if it's agreed. It is rather the objective that is the most important thing, and we are pleased that we have got it in place. It is clear that it is a stop. However, there are always parts of agreements that do not break contracts, but they will be kept as strict as possible. I regard this issue of air traffic controller support as totally unacceptable.
i-36e7d133990149b4-549	Madam President, I would like In recent years we have received reports that within the Green Party there are problems with people associated with Islamism. The most attentive case concerned Minister Mehmet Kaplan, who had links to the Grey Wolfes in Turkey and also made direct anti-Semitic statements in the media. Anti-Semitism is the DNA of Islamism. The hatred of Jews because they are Jews is in all Islamism. It is important to realise this and to counteract it in every way. Within the EU, important work is under way against Islamism and, as part of that work, a European definition of the concept of anti-Semitism. The definition has previously been adopted by the European Commission and by the OSSE. The definition has been developed by the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance, and the idea is that this should be an important tool in the work against anti-Semitism and clarify what anti-Semitism really is. This has been welcomed by various parties in the countries of Europe and also by Jewish organisations, political parties in Israel, anti-racist movements and so on. However, the Green Party chose a different path. When the European Parliament dealt more than a year ago with the proposal to adopt the common definition of anti-Semitism, the Green Party voted against. Why is it that the Green Party does not want a common definition of anti-Semitism in Europe, which would facilitate the important work against anti-Semitism?
i-36e7d133990149b4-555	Madam President, I would like Let me stress that the Green Party considers it very important to work against anti-Semitism, everywhere and always. It is unacceptable that there should continue to be such widespread anti-Semitism, not only from Islamists but also from other groupings. During the term of office, the government will ensure that the memory of the Holocaust is strengthened so that no one forgets, which is part of this thought complex. Unfortunately, I do not know why our MEPs voted against, so I cannot answer that question. But let me assure Lars Adaktusson that the Green Party and environmentalists are prepared to fight anti-Semitism every day.
i-36e7d133990149b4-558	Madam President, I would like I respect the fact that Janine Alm Ericson is not informed about this very thing. Let me make a note, and that is that over the years the Green Party has often been against political proposals that can be seen as supporting Israel. For a long time, the Green Party has been hostile to Israel. From the founder Per Gahrton goes a line of opinion to Gustav Fridolin, Mehmet Kaplan, Yasri Khan and so on. The other day I stood in this very speaker's chair and debated Swedish aid to Palestinian areas with Peter Eriksson from the Green Party. The Green Party, through its support for aid, is helping to keep a regime under its arms which is spreading anti-Semitism on a daily basis, while at the same time talking about the importance of combating it. That doesn't make any sense, I'm afraid.
i-36e7d133990149b4-561	Madam President, I would like I would argue against the Green Party having a hostile attitude towards Israel – that is certainly not true. When it comes to aid to Palestine, we have no budget support. There is no state budget support going directly to the Palestinian Authority, but support is provided on the basis of international law, the EU's common positions and UN resolutions. I think we should be completely clear on this. The support we give is being followed up and does not support at all the hostile actions that are taking place against Israel. Of course, Israel has the legitimacy of protecting itself and its people. On the other hand, we see great criticism of the way in which the Palestinian people in Israel are treated, which, among other things, disregards international law. We think this is serious.
i-36e7d133990149b4-564	Madam President, I would like Usually, in various foreign policy contexts in this House and elsewhere, I point out that overall the world is slowly improving. Fewer people starve, more people have a job and can make their living on their own, fewer die of easily avoidable diseases and more children and young people, especially girls, than ever before go to school. Slowly, step by step, the world overall gets better every day. This is important to remember when we are confronted daily with relevant and important descriptions of the horrors of war and other misery that also exists in the world. Unfortunately, while the world is improving overall, the current tensions in security policy are increasing. Here in our country and in our region we are looking with justified concern at developments in Russia, both politically and militarily. But the important, big and long-term change that is taking place in the world is the great upbuilding that is taking place in Asia, including China. This will gradually shift the focus of security policy in the world from Europe, where it has been for many decades, to Asia. It is not the case that tensions are decreasing in Europe, but that they may even become more complicated to sort out. In the development of security policy in the world, we should not forget India, which is also a country that is very and strongly developing at the moment, in many cases, but it is also engaged in a major reconstruction. However, discussing global security and only talking about military threats would be wrong, because global security is not just about military security. In fact, the broad security policy – the broad concept of security policy – is perhaps even more important, with the threats facing us, the whole of humanity, in the form of natural disasters and extreme weather. In the part of the world where we are, our country is a sensitive high-tech society where small technical errors can have major consequences, which can ultimately paralyze the whole of society. This broad security policy threat is important to bear in mind, and that is what we need to be prepared for, nationally, of course, but also internationally, in cooperation with others. Madam President, I would like I'm not a nationalist. I'm an internationalist. I really believe, and have always believed, that cooperation makes the world a better place. A world of cooperation is a safer world, and in a safer world with more cooperation, the place of women must also be a matter of course, including in the debate on security policy. This is one of the important things in the feminist foreign policy of the current Social Democratic-led government. Today's development, with more and more countries entering the impasse of nationalism and protectionism, is dangerous. Ultimately, it is also a security policy threat. The three points pointed out earlier today by the Foreign Minister in the Government's foreign policy declaration are very well worded and pleasing: democracy, shared responsibility for peace and security, and diplomacy. Putting these three Ds first in Swedish foreign policy, based on the fact that it is a feminist foreign policy, points out a good way forward for Swedish foreign policy. It will lead Sweden to make its contribution to global peace and security.
i-36e7d133990149b4-572	Madam President, I would like There are major changes in global trade. The world sees many new and interesting markets opening up that can be of great benefit to mutual trade. But there are also undercurrents that want something other than what they apparently claim to be. In the face of this, we in Sweden should be observant and above all not naive. E-commerce is growing significantly. It is a global phenomenon that radically changes distribution flows from ocean-based bulk transport to more individual and fast-moving deliveries. This has an impact on production and logistics and of course also has an impact on the environment. We also see that trade agreements become more bilateral. This is a pure consequence of the fact that the old Doha Agreement never became a reality. It is also a consequence of some dominant trading nations using trade as a geopolitical tool to gain more favourable positions. Despite this, there are bright signs in the trade cloud. The EU-Japan Free Trade Agreement entered into force on 1 February this year. It is the largest free trade agreement ever and holds one third of the world economy. It is important today for jobs and growth at home in Sweden, but it is also the right signal for openness when protectionism is increasing in the world. The world needs more such trade agreements. Madam President, I would like Imperialism as we know it has in its earlier incarnations been either political, economic, military or cultural. But it's rarely been all at once. The world is facing a new order of power with a purposeful agenda that we have never seen before. Of course, it is not possible to have a foreign policy debate without mentioning China as an expansive power factor. China's holistic approach to national security includes politics, internal security, military and economics, but also culture, social development, information exchange and nuclear power. The long-term strategy is that in 2049, when the People's Republic turns 100, China should be a prominent high-tech industrial nation that is economically and militarily strong, while still being a successful socialist state. All of this is fomented by Chinese nationalism, which wants the country to succeed and reclaim what is perceived as its rightful place in the world order. This is an important driver of Chinese foreign investment, which also explains why their companies with foreign operations are encouraged to try to get over interesting technologies that can also be used militarily. We see it around the world, and we see it in Sweden. China advocates free trade and openness, but acts protectionistly. The West's market economies do not have an economic exchange on equal terms with state-capitalist China. In addition, non-Chinese companies suffer from lack of patent protection, extensive industrial espionage and technology transfer requirements to gain market access in China. Madam President, I would like With economic influence also comes political influence. Freedom, harmony and tolerance can never be taken for granted. When moments of thinking about the danger over, it's always at its most dangerous. It always lurks forces in the calmest waters that more or less open and on the basis of different motives want to change the current order. According to the OECD, China is one of the least open countries for foreign investment, including developing economies, while OECD countries are among the most open markets in the world. The EU and Sweden must take into account that some Chinese investors do not act solely on commercial grounds, which may affect the security of Europe and Sweden. Sweden and the EU need a China strategy and a significantly increased knowledge of this country in Sweden's government system. Sweden also needs to review certain foreign investments to avoid undermining Swedish total defence interests or giving foreign companies a monopoly position on important markets for Sweden. The EU should therefore join forces with like-minded countries, such as the US, Japan, South Korea and Australia, to increase pressure on China to live up to its declared ambition to open up the market to the outside world. This is not just true of China. Attention must always be maintained against all forces, large and small, where expansionist ambitions coexist with totalitarian ideas that people's freedom should be pruned. It can be military and economically ambitious countries wherever they appear in the world. Madam President, I would like As I began with, the world sees many new and interesting markets opening. They can and should be useful in developing mutual trade. But these undercurrents, which want something other than what they seem to be claiming, must always be mindful of. In view of this, we in Sweden should be observant and above all not naive. In the face of this, trade is our best tool.
i-36e7d133990149b4-586	Madam President, I would like When the Soviet Union collapsed in the early 1990s, many hoped for Russia in increasingly peaceful and western-friendly development. At first, it looked pretty positive. However, anyone who knows his history knows that caution rather than hope is a good way to benchmark the future. When, as a 20-year-old and quite new to politics in the late 1990s, I wrote the section on our defence policy in our youth union's first programme of principles, I warned, even though at the time it seemed to be a fairly positive development in Russia, that the situation could quickly change. I wrote: To then decide on the disarmament of the Swedish defence, with regard to what happened after the defence decision of 1925, is insane. A disarmed defense takes years to rebuild. You don't have that time at a war threat in modern times. Unfortunately, the Members of Parliament present at the time were not as sensible in this House. The slaughter of the Swedish defence ability continued. Even Russia's aggression war against Georgia in 2008, or for that matter Ukraine in 2014, did not cause the government parties to wake up from their Sleeping Beauty sleep. Madam President, I would like In August 2008, Russia entered Georgia militarily. The short-term war that followed cost a number of civilians their lives, a large number of houses and infrastructure were destroyed and over 100,000 people were forced to flee their homes to escape the fighting. Among other things, the ceasefire that took place on 12 August 2008 said that the Russian forces in the country would return to the places they held before the last hostilities. This summer it has been eleven years since the war ended. Despite the fact that so long has passed, 20% of Georgia's territory is still under illegal occupation of Russia. And Russia has not only remained on Georgian territory. It has even increased its presence through the supply of military equipment, vehicles and soldiers. In the occupied territories of Russia, discrimination and violence against civilians have increased, and human rights have deteriorated since 2008. Russia's actions in Georgian territory are totally unacceptable. This is not just in violation of international law. Russia is also in breach of the ceasefire of 12 August 2008. The Swedish Government has been active in the Georgia issue over the years. Yes, that's right. However, anyone who read the foreign policy declaration here today knows that neither Georgia nor, for that matter, other countries suffering under Russian occupation were mentioned at all, except Ukraine. It shows a little bit that interest in these particular areas has cooled off from the government's side, in other words that these countries are not even mentioned. We Swedish democrats believe that more needs to be done to support Georgia in their quest for peace and democratic development. The single most important issue is to get Russia to apply the 2008 ceasefire. Madam President, I would like Russia's attack war against Ukraine in 2014 and the illegal annexation of Crimea, which was a flagrant violation of the Helsinki Agreement, showed that the war in Georgia was not a single event but just another step in a security policy development in Russia that is very negative and worrying. We Swedish democrats have long warned against this development and have since long before our parliamentary entry in 2010 denounced the irresponsible armament of Swedish defence capabilities. For Sweden, not least Russia's actions on and around the Baltic Sea in recent years are very worrying. When this is mentioned, a number of parties always respond by promoting Swedish NATO membership as the only way to improve our security policy situation. Strangely enough, my friends, the opinion is expressed by the very parties that crushed the remains of the Swedish invasion defence and put us in the position we are in today. As I said, we Swedish democrats are concerned about developments in Russia and the deteriorating security situation in our part of Europe. However, we are convinced that Swedish membership of NATO would only increase tension on and around the Baltic Sea. This would make the Baltic Sea an internal sea of NATO countries, as Finland would in all likelihood follow Sweden. It would upset the geostrategic balance in our neighbourhood something immense, which would be negative for both Sweden and the Swedish people. We Swedish democrats reply that instead we should deepen our cooperation with Finland even further. We should be part of a defence alliance with Finland and, at the same time, greatly increase Swedish defence capabilities. This would increase the threshold effects and make it much more difficult for an attacker to attack our two countries. By doing so, we would also maintain our neutrality in relation to the great military alliances. At the same time, it would also promote a relaxation in our part of Europe. Finally, I would like to comment on what has emerged earlier in the debate from representatives of both the Center Party and the Liberals. Kerstin Lundgren claimed earlier that there were two bad things to choose from when he voted against Kristersson and released the Löfven. Fredrik Malm from the Liberals said that they would act as an opposition party when it comes to foreign policy. But you can't both eat the cake and keep it. In fact, they actively voted red against the party leader of the Moderates and passively released Prime Minister Löfven. This has also released the government's foreign policy.
i-36e7d133990149b4-602	Madam President, I would like In many respects, I believe that no one was upset by Björn Söder's description of security policy developments and Russia's aggression across Europe. Then I have different views than Björn Söder about the wisdom of making a change in the Swedish defence in the 90s, and I certainly have different views than Björn Söder on a few more points. However, the interesting thing about the reasoning that Björn Söder mentions is the Russian action. This is important for the Swedish part and for Swedish security policy. What is Björn Söder's idea and analysis of why Russia is acting in this way?
i-36e7d133990149b4-604	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt as to why Russia is acting in this way. As far as Georgia and Ukraine, for example, and elsewhere, are concerned, this is an effective way of preventing these countries from going west. This, for example, makes NATO membership impossible for these countries, which have expressed a willingness to join NATO. If the border lines are not resolved but are the subject of conflicts, NATO's statutes prevent a state from applying for membership of NATO. It is therefore an effective way for Russia to keep NATO away from its absolute proximity. I do not think there is any doubt about that. I have also asked myself, for example, how Russia acts in the Baltic Sea region and how it acts against Sweden, with violations of our territory and the like. It may ultimately drive the Swedish people to want to go to NATO, and Russia should realise that is not the way to go.
i-36e7d133990149b4-606	Madam President, I would like As regards the foreign declaration, Sweden's policy towards Russia and Russia's action in relation to Georgia, Ukraine and other matters, I should, of course, point out the following: firstly, not everything is included in a foreign declaration, and secondly, Sweden is the country that is very clearly and strongly pushing the line that the EU should continue to impose its sanctions on Russia precisely because of its actions in the form of the war in Ukraine, the annexation of Crimea and so on. Björn Söder points out that Russia wants to make it impossible for countries to go west, join NATO and so on. In fact, I fully share that assessment. But why is it so important for Russia that countries should not be able to freely make their choices in terms of security policy and other matters?
i-36e7d133990149b4-608	Madam President, I would like That question might perhaps be put to Russian representatives by Kenneth G. Forslund, but I myself am convinced that after the fall of the Soviet Union Russia was in dekiss – if I may use that word – but during this time I have wanted to become a world player again. It is clear that it does not accept that major alliances from the West and the like are beginning to establish themselves in the immediate vicinity and in the immediate sphere of influence. It is clear that we are therefore trying to fight this back. I would just like to point out that I think it is weak for the government to not even mention countries such as Georgia in its foreign policy declaration. It is somehow a sign that it has fallen into oblivion. Ukraine is mentioned, but Georgia, for example, is not mentioned. There are also other countries which should at least be mentioned in the declaration.
i-36e7d133990149b4-610	Madam President, I would like My party colleagues and committee colleagues have already well explained the position and position of the Center Party on a number of urgent issues in foreign policy. I am therefore going to take the luxury of talking exclusively about a subject that is close to my heart and to the Center Party, namely the relationship with the immediate world around us – our Nordic neighbours and friends. Nordic cooperation is perhaps the most natural cooperation for Sweden. It is not in the sense that it is against our other commitments and our other international cooperation, either in the European Union, in the field of defence or within the United Nations, but because our countries have historical human, economic and cultural links that continue into our time. You sometimes get the impression that Nordic cooperation and relations are something of the past. You get the impression that people moved from Finland to Sweden in the 1800s or earlier and that it is not something that lives in our time, and you get the impression that it can not be as interesting to move across the Swedish-Norwegian border today as it was 300 or 400 years ago. This, I would argue, is completely wrong. Since the 19th century, the Nordic countries have sought, in different ways and with different intensity, to dismantle the obstacles that stop citizens from seeking a better future in another Nordic country or, for that matter, enrich themselves, culturally or economically, or seek new family relations across borders. It is also for this reason that Sweden has for a long time established and strong Nordic cooperation between the Nordic parliaments within the Nordic Council and between the Nordic ministers in the Nordic Council of Ministers. I believe that this is something worth protecting even into our time, Madam President. Unfortunately, we see that cooperation is going backwards in some ways. It's not that it's a conscious act; I don't think any decision-maker in this room thinks it's worth backing the band and building up new border barriers between our countries or it's desirable for Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland and Iceland to get further apart. What I am rather concerned about is happening, Madam President, is that we are losing out on what work it actually means to safeguard both Nordic cooperation and the close links between our countries. Unlike some of our other international collaborations, Nordic cooperation is not about building new constellations and coalitions, but perhaps about keeping the Nordic idea in mind in the most everyday things we do as decision-makers. It is about thinking about how an infrastructure investment in the Öresund region affects commuting between Sweden and Denmark and about thinking about how the implementation of an EU directive in Sweden risks building new border barriers against our Nordic neighbours. It is precisely in this dimension that the threat to Nordic cooperation lies – in that we simply take it so much for granted that we forget what power it takes to continue not only to protect but also to develop Nordic cooperation. I am therefore pleased that the Nordic dimension has been mentioned in today's foreign policy declaration. I think it is important that we talk about the importance of Nordic cooperation in all the different areas where we need to develop it, and I am pleased that as soon as we talk about how we build security and security in Sweden, the international and Nordic dimensions are also included in a natural way. It is not only about how we build security against military threats, but also about how we build a strong and robust response to climate change, forest fires, natural disasters and floods. It is about how we ensure food security in a crisis or war situation. As I said, I am pleased that this perspective is included in today's foreign policy declaration, but it also requires work in the coming years. At the autumn session of the Nordic Council, the Council intends to present a number of recommendations to the Nordic parliaments and governments on how to build security together in the future. As I said, it is perhaps not primarily about military security; it is about total defence, about social security and about how we face the new security threats that arise. Here, there is a reason both for the government and for us in Parliament to take in the Nordic perspective and to be able to take advantage of the skills currently being built up in our neighbouring countries, not least in Finland in terms of cyber security. It is also the case that the government has appointed a new Nordic Minister for Cooperation. From having previously been something that lies in the Foreign Minister's portfolio, this goes to Ann Linde, who becomes the new Nordic Minister for Cooperation. I think this might be a good thing. This does not mean that we must lose the Nordic perspective in foreign policy, but I think it is good that we are strengthening this perspective on all the issues that we are deciding on here in Parliament. There is no shortage of examples of challenges outside the area of security and foreign policy where we can do more together. It is important that we keep up with the initiatives that have come up with common personal identity numbering systems that make it easier to move between the Nordic countries and to ensure that our social security systems and the legal models we build between the Nordic countries. Not least, it is important to continue to protect the common Nordic voice in the EU and in the UN and for all those who want to see more of democratic work. There the Nordic countries can lead the way.
i-36e7d133990149b4-622	Madam President, I would like Extreme poverty in the world has decreased dramatically in recent decades. Eight out of ten children are currently receiving measles vaccine. Life expectancy has increased to 70 years and infant mortality has fallen to less than 5 per cent. This shows that it is possible to change if there is a will. But our world has profound injustices between poor and rich countries, between poor and rich people within the countries and between women and men. The richest percentage owns as much as the other 99%, and the gap is steadily increasing. Oxfam's report Reward Work, Not Wealth, shows that 82 percent of wealth growth in 2017 went to the richest percentage of the world's population. The poorest half got no increase at all. Last year, the number of dollar billionaires increased faster than any previous year. Their wealth could have eradicated poverty seven times over. Poverty, inequality and inequality have consequences. Over the last two years, hunger has increased. Today, over 650 million people lack access to clean water. Every 90 seconds, a woman dies as a result of complications in childbirth. At the same time, we are seeing democracy in decline around the world. Reactionary, patriarchal and racist currents, often supported by an economic elite, reap success by directing the cape towards the already most vulnerable. At this time, a strong policy of equality, justice and sustainable global development is needed. Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling mentioned the foreign policy of the Left Party in his speech. I will focus on aid. Aid policy is part of development policy but far from everything. Global aid totals around USD 175 billion per year. For every aid crown that goes from the rich part of the world to the poor, ten crowns go in the opposite direction in the form of tax and capital flight. Reversing this development is a central part of the work to create a more equal world. On the basis of the relatively small amount of overall aid, it is particularly important to protect aid. The coherence policy that has been established both within Swedish development policy and within the EU and in Agenda 2030 must have a more powerful impact. The Left Party wants a feminist aid policy. At least half of the aid should be spent on women and girls and at least 10% on sexual and reproductive health and rights. Girls and women are still forced to do much of the unpaid domestic work today so that the family can meet the basic needs at all. As a result, girls are not allowed to go to school and women are not able to work. Madam President, I would like To be able to control one's own body and express one's own sexuality is a fundamental human right. But it is a right violated and violated in many countries of the world. Lack of access to contraception and sex education, lack of maternal care and strong restrictions on abortion law are key obstacles to development and poverty reduction. The organisations working for sexual and reproductive health and rights in poor countries need our support. At the same time, we see how forces that counter-grave the right to abortion are active in many poor countries and move forward their positions. Trumps's decision to reintroduce the Mexico City policy, which prevents the US from funding organisations working for the right to abortion, constitutes a huge threat to women's rights and is a clear setback to global development policy. The US organisation Marie Stopes International believes that 2 million more unsafe abortions will occur and that 22,000 more women and girls will die as a result of complications in pregnancy between 2017 and 2020 unless the needs are covered by other funding. Last week was the International Day of Zero Tolerance for Female FGM. With the help of UNFPA, we have seen a reduction in the number of genital mutilations, in some countries by more than 50%. It can be changed if the will exists. Unfortunately, however, we have to note that developments in several quarters are going in the opposite direction. The EU is far from achieving the target of 0.7% of GDP for aid. At the same time, the Union wants to open up the use of aid for military activities and has increasingly begun to use aid to pressure poor countries to stop people fleeing. Several EU countries are pushing for a broader definition of private sector assistance. Today, more than half of global aid procurement goes to domestic companies. The worst is the United States, Britain and Australia with 90 percent. It's shameful. Madam President, I would like We in the Left want to protect aid. Aid money should go to aid. The one-percent target shall be a minimum. Half of the aid will go to girls and women and at least 10% to the SRHR. We also want to introduce increased climate aid beyond the 1% target. It is equal, feminist aid policy on an ecological basis that benefits many – not just the richest.
i-36e7d133990149b4-636	Madam President, I would like Over the last decade, the world has become more uncertain and unpredictable. The UN Security Council too often disagrees on how to tackle various conflicts. The Security Council must stop looking at its own geopolitical, economic and strategic interests and begin to assume its responsibilities. Madam President, I would like The US and the EU disagree on the handling of Iran's nuclear technology, which is a threat to Israel's existence. Russia is upgrading its military capabilities and is increasingly aggressive in its geopolitical ambitions. China is threatening Taiwan's sovereignty and independence. In Venezuela, the dictator Maduro, who illegally usurped the presidential power, refuses to declare new elections. A democratic, free and transparent election should be announced as soon as possible and an armed conflict avoided. It is important that Sweden and the EU support this and stand up for the people and the opposition to repression. The so-called Arab spring started about nine years ago and was a reaction to corruption, social injustice and autocracy. We believed that the uprising would lead to freedom and democratisation of nations in North Africa and the Middle East, but the uprising has unfortunately developed into a power struggle in a number of countries, mainly between Shia and Sunni Muslims. This has opened up to various Islamic terrorist organisations, which are today a major threat in the region and throughout the world. We can see that the situation in Iraq is beginning to stabilise somewhat, and serious ceasefire and peace negotiations are also taking place in Yemen. In Syria, civil war has decreased. A ceasefire and negotiations for a new future for Syria should be launched as soon as possible under the UN mandate, as well as a new democratic constitution. The goal should be a democratic country based on human rights and a united secular society – not sectarian power sharing as in Iraq. Madam President, I would like In the unstable situation in the Middle East, the Christian communities, not least in Syria and Iraq, have been marginalised and severely affected by systematic abuse. Islamic armed groups expel them from their territories by force, and their existence in the region is threatened. In Iraq, in 2014, the terrorist group forced several hundred thousand Christian inhabitants and Yazidians to flee. A genocide was committed on Christian ethnic groups and Yazidians. This genocide and crimes of international law were recognised by the European Parliament in a resolution in 2016. Madam President, I would like The government should also acknowledge the genocide, otherwise we will fail the victims. A recognition of the government would show to the outside world that Sweden is really responsible for crimes against international law. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the KD and M budget has 1% of GDP in aid. But I hope that we will soon be able to make direct humanitarian aid possible through churches in Syria and Iraq to the needy. Madam President, I would like I and many Christian Swedes with roots in the Middle East are disappointed that the government refuses to recognise the genocide in 1915, even though the Riksdag has acknowledged the genocide that occurred during the fall of the Ottoman Empire in the present Turkey. 1.5 million Syrians, Armenians, Chaldeans, Assyrians, and Peptic Greeks were massacred. Madam President, I would like In 2001, France became one of the first countries in the world to recognize the genocide, and in 2012 the denial of the genocide was criminalised. Last week we received the good news that the French President, Macron, has announced 24 April as a French national memorial to the 1915 genocide. Madam President, I would like I have on several occasions exercised in the Riksdag that the government should recognise the genocide in 1915 and announce the genocide day on 24 April as an annual memorial day. I have also proposed a national memorial in Södertälje in memory of the victims of the genocide. I have not yet received any response from the government and am deeply disappointed by the unwillingness of the government to address these issues. I will continue to pursue this issue in Parliament. My hope is that the government will comply with the parliamentary decision in 2010 and acknowledge the genocide of 1915 – a confirmation that has historical and moral significance and brings peace to the victims, some of them here in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to express my pleasure at the openness and tolerance that Pope Francis met during his visit to the Arab Emirates. The message of the Prime Minister of the host country, where he addressed all Muslims in the Middle East, was to keep on embracing our brothers, the Christian citizens everywhere. That was a good news and news from the Prime Minister there. With my speaking time coming to an end, I would just like to say that the equal, unique and inviolable value of all people must always be respected and protected. Let us hope that Christians and other inhabitants of the Middle East and other parts of the world can enjoy religious and political freedom.
i-36e7d133990149b4-653	Madam President, I would like Europe is facing a choice of ways. Just as we chose the road for Sweden on 9 September, on 26 May the voters will choose which Europe they want. And much is at stake, more than ever. Now, as then, it's about standing on the right side of history. These are some questions that each voter should ask himself: Do you want to see fair working conditions and wages to live on, or are we going to have a Europe where employees compete with ever lower wages and poorer conditions? Do you want the EU to be a forerunner in the world for a sustainable climate and environmental policy, or are short-term populists to be allowed to govern the policy? Do you want climate sceptics and those who question science to take more place, or do you want to see a Europe where we use common resources, research, innovation and smart business as a way to both cope with climate change and ensure that new green, sustainable jobs are created across the EU? Do you want the EU to work towards better cooperation, more trade and exchange, or should we move towards more solitude and protectionism? Do you want the EU to take greater joint responsibility for migration and asylum, or should some countries continue to evade responsibility? Do you want the EU to stand up for democracy and human rights while at the same time working to increase our common security and secure the EU's external borders? I know what Europe I want to see. I know that the search for equality, solidarity with one another, cooperation for the common good and a constant, unbroken struggle for equal value and right for all is the way forward for Europe. But that road is under threat today. Right-wing extremists, rogue populists, climate deniers and nationalists are advancing on a broad front in many countries. Viktor Orbán in Hungary has Putin and Russia as an example when he strives for an illiberal democracy. It closes universities, and public service managers are fired and replaced by new loyal ones with the Fidesz government party. Foreign hostility has become government policy, and barbed wire is rolled out when Islamophobia, anti-Semitic rhetoric and intimidation propaganda are used to win votes. In Poland, the Government Party is pushing law and justice for even tougher abortion laws. They try to limit the independence of the courts and want to strengthen their grip on the media and cultural life. I could go on for a long time. But this is the threat to a free and democratic Europe today. In country after country, these forces grow. In Sweden we are not spared. Here we have the Swedish Democrats who until yesterday, I think, pushed the question of sv exit, that Sweden should leave the EU. It is a party founded by neo-Nazis and the White Power movement, whose whole basic idea is based on making a difference between peoples from their origins. They are partly different from their partners in Europe. But there are things that unite them all, from Fidesz in Hungary to Law and Justice in Poland, Front National in France, Lega Nord in Italy and all their names. They all want to restrict freedom of movement. They want to see less gender equality and limited abortion rights and have a view of gender roles that belong in the 1950s, not in the 2020s. Climate Deniers are also flocking in these parties. They are all opposed to the EU in some way. They see the EU as a threat to the independence of the nation and speak out when it wants to uphold fundamental democratic values in the countries. They also all want ethnic and cultural homogeneity in their country and do not hesitate to override democratic values in order to achieve this. They have in common that they are nostalgic looking back to a golden age when the homeland was like one happy, homogenous and nationalistic family. The only problem is that that time never existed. It's a fictional sentimental fairy tale devoted to burning a discontent whose wave you want to ride on. The fact is that when nationalism is allowed to spread, it has had disastrous consequences for our continent. The Swedish Democrats are doing what they can to wash away their extremism, but the fact remains. They are part of this movement in Europe. The elections on 26 May are more important than ever. It is time to choose the path for Europe. The options are clear: cooperation and solidarity or solitude and inculcated nationalism; belief in the future and development or poor dreams of a time that has never existed. The choice is yours. Choose wisely on May 26!
i-36e7d133990149b4-671	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about our development and aid policy. When it comes to development policy, there is much to be proud of as a Swede. We are major donors and one of the few countries that come up with the UN recommendation that 0.7% of GDP should go to aid. There is broad support for Sweden to be a major donor when it comes to international aid, and many of our efforts are good and really help save lives. I was recently in Malawi with Gavi and had the opportunity to learn more about the vaccination program in the country. Vaccination of children is an example of a very good aid which I think also large parts of the Swedish people think are good aid efforts. Other efforts such as training authorities in Ukraine in gender budgeting – a project that, according to media data, has resulted in, among other things, feminist snow clearance – I think, to put it mildly, has somewhat lower support among the Swedish people. Madam President, I would like We Moderates demand responsible management of aid. We see the enormous needs of the world and the increasing humanitarian disasters. This requires prioritization and coordination. When it comes to priorities, we want, among other things, to reduce bilateral cooperation and, instead, to increase core support for multilateral organisations. Above all, we want to pool the support of the most active bodies among refugees and those working on children's security and rights. Madam President, I would like It is probably no secret that we Moderates have a different view of tax revenue from the current government. I myself say that politicians do not have money, but politicians take money. This view means that we place great demands on economic governance and reporting, on the fight against corruption and on Swedish aid to make demands. If the requirements are not met, there must be consequences, for example through frozen payments. These could be demands for equality, for strengthening women and children's rights or for strengthening civil society. Development aid makes a difference and is important to many people, such as those mothers in Malawi who, thanks to Gavi's vaccination program today, have their children vaccinated. But aid alone cannot achieve the goal of lifting people out of poverty and oppression. If the objective is to be achieved, development aid must go much more hand in hand with trade and measures contributing to economic growth. The way out of poverty is mainly through economic growth and trade. Development aid should reasonably have a zero vision, that it should no longer be needed. To take steps in this direction, we must honestly examine what works and why, what does not work and why, and how we can better cooperate and coordinate to help as many as possible and to create sustainable and lasting development in the countries in which we operate. Therefore, we Moderates, among other things, want to give the Swedish National Audit Office a specific task to continuously review and evaluate large parts of Sida's project assistance. It is important never to sit back and be content just because you are a great donor. The most important thing is not the sum of our payments, but the results of our efforts. Swedish taxpayers have the right to make demands here that the aid makes a difference. Swedish aid really can't do everything, but where Swedish aid works, taxpayers should see the results of their giving. Our aid should not be symbolic. It's supposed to be effective.
i-36e7d133990149b4-682	Madam President, I would like When you follow the European Union's foreign policy, you easily get the impression that a large part of political capital is spent on something called external aspects of migration. In my view, this is a strange thing because the problems that are being lumped together under that heading are issues that the European Union has largely created on its own and which could be solved quite simply, only the political will exists. The basic reasons for these problems are that the left-wing liberal regime in Europe is stuck between, on the one hand, a rigid, outdated political ideology and, on the other, the real world. A fundamental position of Europe's left-wing liberals is that the European countries have no right to control how many or who comes as immigrants. At the same time, the same parties can no longer hide the fact that mass immigration from the Middle East and North Africa has caused enormous economic problems which must in some way be dealt with. The only way to maintain an open border while reducing volumes is to invent a new policy area called external aspects of migration. In practice, this means that Europe pays very dubious people and organisations from North Africa to stop migrants from getting to the open border. Madam President, I would like In practice, what the EU is doing is holding up in one hand a money bundle to attract migrants to Europe, and in the other hand holding another money bundle to police officers in Mali and Niger to stop the same migrants from coming here. The effect of this deadly and deeply immoral cat-and-rat game is that the drowning accidents on the Mediterranean Sea continue. The terrorist networks and criminal syndicates that make a lot of money from human trafficking can continue to do so. One of mankind's most tragic episodes – namely the Arab slave trade – has had a renaissance. Madam President, I would like African migrants are today sold as slaves in Libya. The only reason why they end up there is the European Union's generous migration policy. On the surface, it certainly looks like more parties have started to wake up on this issue. The European Union today has a number of development cooperation with Africa aimed precisely at strengthening growth and improving the quality of life in order to address what is called the root causes of migration. Professor Hein de Haas of Amsterdam University, Professor Paul Collier, former Director of Development Research Group of the World Bank, and Professor Alexander Betts of Oxford University agree that as prosperity and bnp per capita increase, the tendency to migrate also increases – this is because in most cases it is not about escape but an expensive and dangerous but potentially very profitable investment to get here. To be very clear, I would, of course, like to emphasise that the Swedish Democrats are behind the Union's development cooperation plan in Africa, and we also support the Union's agreement that aid should amount to 0.7% of GDP. Development aid has a value in itself, but it is not and will not be an effective tool to stop migration. The most bizarre thing in this story is that a large part of the current government knows that this plan will not work. To written question No 66, Minister for Migration Peter Eriksson answers: On the other hand, research shows that an increase in GDP in low-income countries leads to an increase in emigration. Yet it is precisely development efforts and increased prosperity that Peter Eriksson's government wants to use as the primary tool to reduce the tendency to migrate. Or, as the Foreign Minister himself has said, if we can arrange education, work and future opportunities, there is a chance that one would rather stay and help develop one's own country... However, Professor Hein de Haas points out that the EU sees development aid as a tool to reduce migration. This view is based on the misleading idea that poverty and violence are the main drivers of south – north migration. In reality, however, development and initially leads to increasing levels of emigration. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Sweden has a Minister for Foreign Affairs and a Minister for Development who does not know what the other is doing and who provides diametrically different opposite answers on an extremely important issue. This, in turn, leads to the suspicion that the whole area of external aspects of migration really only serves as an alibi for Europe's left-wing liberals not to talk about a problem that they cannot solve or about the research that speaks directly against their position. What, then, is the solution? Yes, of course, to counter the real root causes of migration: to bring down the money bundle that attracts migrants to come here. It is time to reform the common asylum system from a system that encourages irregular migration to a purely quota refugee system instead. This would target aid to those who really need it and, above all, do so through humanitarian aid and development aid on the ground.
i-36e7d133990149b4-697	Madam President, I would like I wonder whether Mr Aspling really believes that there is a danger that people in poor countries will gain more wealth because they will then be more inclined to move and come here to Europe. It is a deeply cynical view of humanity. The honourable Member has a very distorted vision. The same applies when he calls the whole European government left-wing liberals. So Tories in England and CSU in Germany are left-wing liberals? Ludvig Aspling may be able to answer the question that Jimmie Åkesson received in the election campaign. He took the opportunity to ask if he would choose between Macron and Putin. Is the honourable Member also right on this question? Who do you choose, Ludvig Aspling, if you have to choose between Viktor Orbán and Angela Merkel. Here, your party leader chose Orbán. What do you choose?
i-36e7d133990149b4-701	Madam President, I would like I thought I saw Olle Thorell browsing Facebook while I had my opening speech so I can forgive him for obviously not getting what I said. Let me be very clear again. We support the European Union's development aid plan in Africa. We also support the European Union's objective of 0.7% of GDP in aid. This is because development aid has a value in itself. Whether there are zero migrants coming to the EU or several hundred or several hundred thousand coming, it does not matter. In fact, development aid serves its own purpose, regardless of migration. Olle Thorell does not seem to understand this. As for whether I should choose between Macron and Putin, I choose Macron, albeit reluctantly.
i-36e7d133990149b4-705	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats are committed to the EU's target of 0.7% in aid. However, it is worth mentioning in this House that the Swedish Democrats stand out in many ways, including in foreign policy. It is the only party that wants massively to cut aid to poor people in the world. They want to cut down to 0.75. It is somewhat unclear whether it is 0, 7, 0,75 or a little less than 1 percent. They are trying to fine-tune the figures, but it is clear that the Swedish Democrats are the only party in parliament that does not stand up for the 1% target. Maybe it's because they're afraid that if poor people under the Sahara get better, they're moving to Europe. Mr Aspling will have to clarify the matter. Is that why the Swedish Democrats want to cut aid?
i-36e7d133990149b4-707	Madam President, I would like We are cutting aid because this area of expenditure has had an explosive expansion in recent years. It is relatively clear that Sida and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are not able to spend so much money in a quality-proof way. That is why we see scandal after scandal in Swedish aid, and we therefore choose to cut back. It is therefore a purely taxpayer's perspective. In addition, there is aid that is quite damaging to the recipient countries by fertilising corruption and fuelling contradictions within the countries. This has nothing to do with the possibility of migration. My point in the speech was that aid should not be used as a means of combating migration. It would be both deeply immoral. On the other hand, it doesn't work. This is our basic bolt, which Olle Thorell unfortunately deliberately misunderstands in trying to make a rather ridiculous point.
i-36e7d133990149b4-710	Madam President, I would like The EU recently had the opportunity to stand up for its fundamental principles, human rights and international law. The EU could have helped bring the 44-year conflict over Western Sahara closer to a peaceful solution, but did just the opposite. As early as December 2016, the EU Court of Justice ruled that the EU-Morocco Trade and Agriculture Agreement does not apply to Sahrawi products, as Western Sahara does not belong to Morocco. Furthermore, on 27 February 2018, the European Court of Justice ruled that the fisheries agreement between Morocco and the EU does not apply to Western Sahara. The judges make it clear that the only way to negotiate agreements involving Western Sahara is with the Sahrawi people. Instead of complying with the unequivocal rulings, the Commission chose to circumvent the Court's decision and launched a renegotiation of the agreements to include Western Sahara. This is remarkable to say the least. In its defence, the Commission claims that there has been dialogue with the local people in Western Sahara. But engaging in dialogue with the locals does not mean asking the Moroccan occupiers, which was exactly what they did. In addition, some 83 Western Sahrawi civil organisations wrote to the European Commission condemning the agreement, and they referred to Polisario. Despite this, the Sahrawi organisers were on the list presented by the Commission to the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament of organisations which gave their consent to the agreement. In other words, it was a false game. Polisario, the only legitimate representative of the Western Sahara by the United Nations, has not been heard at all. The agreement is thus contrary to the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union and international law. The Swedish Government abstained in the negotiations on the trade agreement. I mean it's not enough. The Swedish Government should have used its vote in the EU and stood up for international law and voted against it. However, the government voted against the fisheries agreement, which is, of course, a good thing. On 16 January this year, the trade agreement was voted through in the European Parliament, and yesterday the fisheries agreement was also voted through. However, a majority of Swedish MEPs abstained or voted against. The fact that the agreements have now been passed will undoubtedly help to prolong the conflict. Natural resources are the very root cause of Morocco's illegal occupation. It is through the high incomes of phosphate, rich fishing and other Sahrawi resources that Morocco can finance its occupation and continue its systematic repression of the Sahrawi population. Now Polisario is forced to go back to court and start a new process. The Swedish government must closely monitor the process and stand up for the Sahrawi people and international law in the future. A first important step is to act urgently in order for the AP Funds to withdraw their investments in companies operating on occupied land. The Swedish government must also ensure that Swedish companies do not shop or operate in the occupied Western Sahara. The government must ensure that Sweden does not indirectly finance the occupation. Western Sahara has been illegally occupied by Morocco since 1975. It is an occupation that is contrary to the wishes of the UN and the International Court of Justice in The Hague. In 1991 a cease-fire was concluded, and the parties agreed to hold a referendum supervised by the UN-led MINURSO force. However, Morocco has done its utmost to sabotage and delay the process. At the end of last year, 2018, talks between the parties in Geneva were resumed under the leadership of UN Envoy Horst Horst, and a second round of talks is planned this year. But for the talks to be successful, a commitment from the outside world is needed. For once, there is reason to listen to Donald Trumps's security policy advisor John Bolton. He is a person with great knowledge of Western Sahara after his time as UN Ambassador to the United States and associates of James Baker, who was behind the previous peace plan. Mr Bolton believes that this referendum, which was decided in 1991, must be held as soon as possible. The most important thing that Sweden can do in this situation is to press for the UN and other international contexts, not least in its bilateral contacts, to ensure that the referendum takes place. There is no other sustainable solution. Sweden must also act in order for Minurso to be given a mandate to monitor human rights. There's a lot at stake. If the Sahrawi representatives are driven over, there is a great risk that the ceasefire will be broken. The Sahrawi people are starting to get enough, and more and more voices are being raised to resume the armed struggle. The world does not need another armed conflict. The world needs peaceful solutions with respect for international law. After 44 years of occupation, it is high time the Sahrawis got their country back. But then the outside world cannot act passively, but must act.
i-36e7d133990149b4-724	Madam President, I would like There are a couple of liberals who have been up in the speaker's seat before me in this House today. It has fallen to me to speak briefly about the disarmament ambitions presented by the government today in the field of nuclear weapons. There is certainly much to do, Madam President. We have the new start-up agreement, which will be launched in 2021. We have the Non-Proliferation Treaty, which, unfortunately, has been a somewhat languishing existence for a long time. In addition, soon 20 months ago Sweden supported the creation of what is known as the Nuclear Weapons Convention or NBT. Since we did so in the summer of 2017, the issue has been the subject of an investigation. On 18 January this year, Ambassador Lundin brought his report, Madam President. It is undeniably rare to see such a total cut on the part of an investigator as when it comes to the question of whether Sweden should enter and sign the so-called Nuclear Weapons Convention. On the one hand, Ambassador Lundin points out that this undermines the existing disarmament regimes and, on the other hand, it makes cooperation with Sweden's closest friends more difficult, some of which – the United States, the United Kingdom and France – have nuclear weapons. It should be known to everyone in this House that all nuclear nations neither dement nor confirm the existence of these weapons in the platforms with which they practice. Should Sweden accede to the Nuclear Weapons Convention, it is my opinion that a military exercise such as the one carried out in autumn 2017, Aurora, would not be possible, at least with the participation of France and the United States. Despite this total screening of the possibility of accession to the Convention, the government has now decided to send the investigation to a referral. This, Madam President, means that uncertainty continues as to where Sweden is in relation to the Convention, which affects our cooperation in security policy. Madam President, I would like The vision of a nuclear-free world is important. But we must never land in a situation where Russia and China still have their nuclear weapons while Western democracies have dismantled theirs. Nuclear disarmament must be balanced, at the same time and transparent.
i-36e7d133990149b4-729	Madam President, I would like Sweden holds the Presidency of the Nordic Council in 2019. The Swedish delegation's presidency programme for the year highlights the importance of democracy in the Nordic region and the broad popular cooperation by focusing on topical issues where the countries' cooperation provides more than if we act on a country-by-country basis. Cooperation brings Nordic benefits. It is about facilitating citizens' everyday lives, exchanging experiences for reforms in different areas of society and having an impact on common Nordic values in international contexts.
i-36e7d133990149b4-731	Gender equality, a prerequisite for democracy – I would also remind you that it is a seminar on gender equality on 13 March in the first chamber under the auspices of the Nordic Council 中 digitisation and digital literacy – new conditions for democracy
i-36e7d133990149b4-734	中 climate – cross-border and prerequisites for democracy and sustainable development. Madam President, I would like I would now like to talk about the Nordic region as the world's most integrated region. The Nordic prime ministers agreed in 2016 to set an ambitious goal for the Nordic region. Our five countries and three autonomous regions are in a unique position to become the world's most integrated region. Now the Nordic Council of Ministers has agreed on a h anding plan for mobility 2019– 2021. Mobility, freedom of movement, is the foundation of Nordic cooperation. When the Nordic Council was established in 1952 with the four countries Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Iceland, a common passport union was one of the first and most important decisions. A common labour market was then established. I will of course admit that Finland became a member in 1955. I have been given the confidence to represent the Nordic Council in the Nordic Council of Ministers' Border Barriers Council. The Border Barriers Council is tasked with investigating and analysing border barriers and developing possible solutions that will then be decided by the various governments. The mission of the Border Barriers Council is to cope with 8-12 obstacles per year. Last year, 14 border barriers were solved. So things are going better and better every year. The Border Barriers Council has also been given a strengthened mandate to make greater demands in dialogue on governments to contribute both energy and decision-making power to solve obstacles. I will highlight some subject areas that have priority in the action plan. Madam President, I would like One of these areas is digitalisation as a support for increased mobility. One of the challenges is to find a common digital payment solution that works in all the Nordic countries, a Nordic bank ID solution. There is a pilot, and there is intense work going on to implement it. Many border commuters or move to other Nordic countries face challenges in both opening bank accounts and paying bills across borders. This could be a model to simplify. The expansion of 5G is essential for promoting and supporting the digital opportunities of the future and ensuring solutions to future challenges, but there are of course challenges in the Nordic region that are not fixed by the transition from 4G to 5G. The availability and availability of digital solutions for all northerners is still linked to shortcomings. The rate of expansion must continue to be high. A Council of Ministers for digitisation has therefore been formed, focusing on the Nordic countries and also the Baltic countries. The three main areas are cross-border digital services, digital innovation targeted at businesses and the implementation of the EU Digital Single Market. Madam President, I would like It is also the view of the Nordic Council that there is a need to highlight the integrity of the network, the concentration of ownership and the collection of customer data by large companies. Just such a thing as common rules for data roaming is difficult to solve. Both the Faroe Islands and Greenland are outside the EU acquis. I would like to say something about Nordic language and cultural exchange as an opportunity for mobility. We know with certainty that Scandinavian language meets significant challenges. When the Nordic Council was formed, it was quite obvious that everyone spoke Scandinavian, but that is not the case today. Many residents in Nordic countries prefer to speak their national language in combination with English. This challenge requires significant information efforts to strengthen the position of Scandinavians as an essential pillar of mobility and the common labour market. An important part is the opportunity to study in Scandinavian in the different countries. Madam President, I would like The cross-border infrastructure is crucial for how the Nordic region will develop into the most integrated region in the world. There are 26 different projects identified which could be launched if the transport ministers of the various governments started the necessary priority work to promote the development of common rail lines which will provide long-term opportunities for sustainable border commuting and freight transport. The Committee for Growth and Development in the Nordic Council expects the Nordic Transport Ministers to resume talks on finding common priority infrastructure solutions as a matter of urgency. We regret that the talks have partially stopped, when so much can begin and bring both national and Nordic added value to Nordics and companies. At the moment, we have also been informed that transport ministers are likely to meet in October, which we are very much looking forward to. We hope it brings new results and exciting plans.
i-36e7d133990149b4-745	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I would like to draw attention to the fact that today is exactly four years since the so-called Minsk Agreement was concluded. In spite of this, Russia's illegal annexation of the Crimean Peninsula and military aggression against Ukraine have continued tirelessly to this day. Russia has even recently extended the conflict to the Sea of Azov, including by attacking and seizing Ukrainian warships and sailors. This is, of course, to be condemned. The Russian crimes against international law have been committed at the price of over 13 000 deaths, 30 000 injured and 1 1⁄2 million internally displaced persons in Ukraine. That is deeply regrettable. At the same time, in Europe, fatigue, or fatigue, is now beginning to spread, linked to the situation in Ukraine. This too is deeply worrying. There are political forces both on the right and on the left in countries such as Italy, Austria, Hungary and Greece which say that now is the time to normalise relations with Russia by removing sanctions and trade restrictions and trying once again to strengthen diplomatic ties with the country. Madam President, I would like Of course, it would be both urgent and desirable for the EU to have good relations with Russia, but not at any cost and not at the expense of our fundamental values and long-term interests. Russia must live up to the Minsk Agreement. Instead, the EU needs to increase pressure through more targeted sanctions against Russia, while at the same time strengthening security support for Ukraine. Ultimately, all this is about Russia having to be judged and held accountable for its foreign policy choices, just like all other European countries. There are at least five factors in Russian foreign policy that make Russia different in European security policy. Firstly, there is only one country in Europe that has redesigned the European map by military force no less than twice over the last ten years. Secondly, there is only one country in Europe that seeks to assassinate defected agents with weapons of mass destruction. This has also been done twice on EU territory. Thirdly, there is only one country in Europe that conducts systematic disinformation operations against the EU through so-called troll factories and Twitter bots. Fourthly, there is only one country in Europe that has put in a system to attack and influence free and universal elections. Italy, Britain, France and Germany have all experienced these targeted attacks on the heart of democracy. Fifthly, there is only one country in Europe that threatens, practices and trains with nuclear weapons. That is totally unacceptable. Both Sweden, Norway and Denmark have been exposed to these direct or disguised threats and also some of the exercises. Madam President, I would like All these factors in Russian foreign policy have profound consequences for the security of Europe and Sweden. And there is no sign today that Russia's policy of confrontation with the West will decline in neither strength nor extent in the foreseeable future. From this we need to make an impression and draw new safety policy conclusions. It is therefore good that there is a consensus in this House that Sweden needs a stronger defence. We also need to strengthen the psychological defence against misinformation operations. The majority of the parties in the Riksdag believe that Sweden should continue to deepen its bilateral military cooperation with the US and strengthen its partnership with NATO. We have also welcomed, in broad political agreement, the fact that the US is now increasing its military presence in our part of Europe. It's good for peace and security. On the other hand, we are deeply divided in this House as to whether Sweden should become a member of NATO itself. I have respect and understanding that there are different views on this issue. However, in the light of Sweden's growing need for defence cooperation, I do not have much understanding of those who believe that it does not matter if Sweden forever takes the opportunity to become a NATO member by entering into the Nuclear Weapons Convention. Furthermore, such access would, of course, greatly impede our military cooperation with the United States, which is our second lifeline in the difficult and fragile security policy landscape that we have to deal with. Therefore, unlike the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I think it is a good thing that the US has been clear to Sweden that it will have consequences for military cooperation between Sweden and the US if we take up the convention. We want to know about it, or as the Foreign Minister himself said in his speech earlier today: It takes two to tango. I think it is important for us to be clear about this. In principle, everything I have said also appears black and white in Lars-Erik-Erik Lundin's investigation. I dare to say that there is no other issue that has such far-reaching and far-reaching implications for Sweden's freedom of action on security policy as access to the Convention on Prohibition. I therefore welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs' announcement today that the government will primarily promote disarmament in other constellations, for example with Germany, and that the main track for Sweden will be the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
i-36e7d133990149b4-759	Madam President, I would like I could not help asking for a reply, because Mrs Pål and I come from the same constituency and have the honour of often discussing defence and foreign affairs in electoral movements and in other pleasant debates. On the basis of Mrs Påls's reasoning on the Nuclear Weapons Convention, I would like to ask a clear and straightforward question: When does Pål Jonson believe that nuclear weapons should be used to promote Sweden's interest and protect Sweden?
i-36e7d133990149b4-761	Madam President, I would like Never, I hope, of course. I thought Allan Widman was wise and balanced in his speech when it came to nuclear weapons. We also want to promote nuclear disarmament, and so has NATO. However, we do not think it is useful to implement unilateral disarmament of the French, British and American nuclear weapons, because the risk is that we will be exposed to the nuclear blackmail of Russia. We have seen that Russia is different when it comes to nuclear weapons. There is only one country in Europe that threatens, practices and trains with nuclear weapons, and that is Russia. We do not want to live on mercy under the threat of these nuclear weapons.
i-36e7d133990149b4-764	Madam President, I would like I hope that Pål Jonson is right that nuclear weapons will never have to be used for Swedish interests. Nevertheless, we are constantly seeing a shift from the bourgeoisie, where one wants to join NATO and come under a nuclear umbrella with other countries. One looks at a scenario in which Russia uses nuclear weapons as a threat or otherwise, and therefore believes that it needs to have nuclear weapons in its arsenal. The risk of this is, above all, the destruction of all mankind. That's what we'll never get away from. Only one nuclear weapon, whether small or large, would have devastating consequences. The two nuclear bombs that have already been used mean that an incredible number of people, some 200 000 people, still need care for their nuclear damage today. In Dagens Nyheter today four researchers state four ambiguities in the investigation that has come. I think it is important that we realise in the debate that the investigation definitely does not provide all the answers to the question.
i-36e7d133990149b4-767	Madam President, I would like I usually try to be a little funny and say that Håkan Svenneling and I live in the same county, but when it comes to security policy it usually feels like we are on different planets. But not this time, because I share Håkan Svenneling's description that nuclear weapons are terrible weapons that we must work together to equip down. More needs to be done not least in connection with the NPT conferences, because no final convention has been reached either in 2015 or 2017. Of course, the pressure on the nuclear states must increase; I have no other opinion than Håkan Svenneling. This is also very important linked to the Start-up Agreement, which will soon begin. I note that there are several actors who are now discrediting Lars-Erik-Erik Lundin's investigation. I am a little upset by it, because Lars-Erik-Erik Lundin is a very experienced diplomat who has written a very insightful investigation in my eyes. I think that these actors should instead focus on writing solid referrals rather than trying to discredit the investigation itself.
i-36e7d133990149b4-770	Madam President, I would like We live in a world where democracy is being eroded, right-wing extremism is increasing and economic divides are increasing even more. Therefore, it is more important than ever that Sweden takes the lead in the work to strengthen the protection of human rights and work for sustainable entrepreneurship in Sweden and the world. Madam President, I would like We have globalised capital but not human rights. Several organizations bear witness to the current situation. Diakonia writes about poor working conditions in the supply chain, lack of trade union rights, child labour, slavery, theft of land and water, forced displacements and companies that aggravate armed conflict. If you protest and demand your rights, it is common for you to be subjected to threats, harassment and often you are at risk of being killed. If you're a woman, you're particularly vulnerable. Quite simply, a reality where companies violate human rights, where fine words in sustainability policies have not been translated into action and where states put business interests before the interests of local people. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like A very urgent issue raised globally and in this House is the environmental and climate crisis and its consequences. The Left Party has the ambition that Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. Electric cars are an important part of this and an important step in the green transition to ensure, among other things, sustainable transport in the future. But the production of electric cars and electric car batteries is far from a green and fair deal. Madam President, I would like When working on political reforms to achieve environmental objectives, it is more important than ever to consider how the decisions we make affect the rest of the world. Pricing environmentally friendly vehicles such as electric cars to achieve environmental objectives is an important step in the right direction, but only if we can ensure that these vehicles are produced in a sustainable way. To produce electric car batteries for the green traffic of the future, a metal called cobalt is required. Over half of the world's cobalt is extracted in Congo, Africa, often under appalling conditions. Congo is one of the richest countries in the world in terms of the availability of valuable natural resources. Nevertheless, the country counts as one of the poorest in the world. Most of Congo's minerals are sold in the Western world, for example to Sweden. International banks and tax havens also help to transfer and hide the huge sums stolen from Congo – money that could help develop the country. Not long ago Aftonbladet published a report on how child workers as young as seven years old and poor Congolese work for foreign companies without either helmet or other protective equipment in dangerous mines to extract cobalt. People lose their lives in narrow tunnels when they desperately try to dig out the metal and the tunnels collapse. The cobalt is used for the batteries for the electric cars that both Volvo and we politicians want people to buy in Sweden. Everybody's talking about electric cars. We are talking about Tesla and Volvo, but rarely do we hear anything about the unacceptable and inhumane working and living conditions that these foreign companies are subjecting people to. According to the organization Afrewatch, at least 7,000 children work with cobalt in a district of Congo. We cheered when the company Northvolt announced that they will build Europe's largest battery factory in Skellefteå, creating over 2,500 jobs, and that from 2019 Volvo will build electric motors into all its new models. But the price paid by children and miners extracting the raw material in a remote corner of Africa is unacceptably high. Madam President, I would like We must make clear demands that Swedish companies comply with sustainability requirements, respect human rights and ensure reasonable working conditions wherever they operate. Congolese children are worth as much as Swedish children, so we should never accept child labour wherever in the world it happens. The conflict in Congo is one of the worst in the world since World War II. But even though 6 to 8 million people have died so far, little is being done to end the fighting. Given the role of the West in the war through the terrible exploitation of natural resources, we have a responsibility to develop political reforms to influence the root causes of the conflict. The rich countries have a responsibility to stop illegal trade and capital flight. Similarly, rich countries must also discuss the impact of the activities of multinationals on socio-economic and political conditions in poor countries. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by reiterating what the Peace Prize winner Denis Mukwege has said: the Congolese people have been humiliated, violated and massacred for more than two decades before the international community. Today, no one can say that you don't know what's going on. When we drive our electric cars, when we use our mobile phones and when we admire our diamonds, we will reflect on the price that Congolese children pay when we ignore human rights.
i-36e7d133990149b4-782	Madam President, I would like The Democratic Front for Palestine's Liberation is a terrorist organisation that has carried out terrorist massacres on Jewish children and is active in terrorist activities in Gaza. In Sweden Group 194 works, which is a partner organisation for DFLP and receives tax revenue from the City of Malmö. Malcolm Jallow's party leader Jonas Sjöstedt has also attended Group 194's meetings, and the Left Party's cooperation with that organisation is well documented. In social media you can find information that Momodou Malcolm Jallow received a prize from DFLP. In the Left Party hall where the photo is taken, the wall is adorned by the organisation's banner. Does Malcolm Jallow not think that it is rather problematic when he, as a member of Sweden's highest decision-making body, pays tribute to a terrorist organisation such as the DFLP and receives a prize from it and is thus used in their propaganda?
i-36e7d133990149b4-784	Madam President, I would like It is expected that Björn Söder will ask a question that has nothing to do with my speech. I am talking about Swedish and Western companies going down to Africa and violating all fundamental rights and human rights, and then Björn Söder is asking a question about Palestine. My colleague Håkan Svenneling has spoken about Palestine before and told us where we stand on the matter. It says a lot that Björn Söder does not want to talk about when Swedish companies go to Africa and break the legislation but rather want to talk about when Africans are in Sweden and how to send them back to Africa. That is what you talk about all the time: xenophobia and the image that I and many people in Sweden do not share in terms of humanity and human rights. I would like to hear Björn Söder talk about the violations of the law that are going on in Congo. Ask me a question about that!
i-9qUG5NLb5mmi529i1sdsab	Madam President, I would like Momodou Malcolm Jallow has received a prize from a terrorist organization. I understand that it is uncomfortable to stand here and answer for it, but nevertheless it is a fact that he has received a prize from a terrorist organisation that has carried out acts of terrorism. In 1974, 25 people were killed in the Ma alot massacre, of which 22 were Jewish children. Group 194, which is a partner organization and with which the Left Party collaborated, had an arrangement in the Left Party premises in Malmö, and it is written on its website that the last part of the event was a screening of a film about Ma alot which reproduces the heroic revolutionary armed Tyrkor's heroic operation in Ma alot Tarshiha. This is therefore an organisation that Momodou Malcolm Jallow has received a prize from. I think he owes it to the Swedish people and those who have voted him into the Swedish Parliament to respond to how to receive a prize from a terrorist organisation.
i-36e7d133990149b4-787	Madam President, I would like I note once again that Björn Söder is not interested in human rights in Africa, which my entire speech was about. As far as Israel and Palestine are concerned, the position of the Left Party is very clear. The Left Party believes that Israel must withdraw from occupied territory, that settlements must be evacuated, that the blockade of Gaza must be lifted and that a free and democratic Palestinian state should be established. That's where we stand. Nothing else that the honourable Member claims here is true. My colleague, Håkan Svenneling, has been very clear about the Left Party's position in foreign policy. What I want to raise in this House, and you never hear people talk about, are Western companies that go down to Africa and violate all human rights. You're not interested in talking about that, Björn Söder. You're welcome to ask me a question about that.
i-36e7d133990149b4-791	Madam President, I would like There is an extensive and urgent security threat to our society. The threat is ticking like a time bomb, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, Every second we move closer to a disaster. There is no other issue that should involve us more, no other issue that should be given equal priority, no other issue that permeates our entire existence. Climate change is here, and it is not just a matter of starving polar bears or dead coral reefs. Climate change permeates all social issues and, above all, poses a threat to society as we feel it. Glaciers melt, and sea levels rise. The number of floods, storms and forest fires is increasing. The security risks involved cannot be met by an individual country or operator. A global transition is needed. Interest in how climate change relates to security risks and affects conflicts has increased. These are mainly humanitarian crises and disasters as direct consequences of extreme weather. The second is the functionality of society that is subjected to pressures such as floods, droughts or storms. The third is armed conflict. Increased temperatures change the availability of natural resources. It can have an impact on and lead to conflicts over resources. Madam President, I would like I am proud that our Foreign Minister, Margot Wallström, made sure that the issue became a topic of discussion in the UN Security Council during our time as a temporary member there. It was the first time since 2011 that the theme of climate and conflict was raised, and the Security Council agreed on a resolution establishing the link. It is therefore not only climate change itself that is the challenge, but also the social and economic consequences that it can bring. In poorer societies with poor institutional functions, the capacity to cope with pressures is limited. Then climate impact has major consequences for people's lives. Natural disasters and conflicts are increasing the hunger we now see in the world. They increase global injustices and lead to people being forced to migrate, which also presents major challenges. Communities with strong institutions are also affected. For example, Swedish society is heavily dependent on electricity. If our power supply were to be knocked out as a result of a severe storm, the consequences would be enormous. The drought of the summer also showed the risks of climate change. In addition to the many and large fires, the warm summer resulted in a significant reduction in food and grain production. The UN Panel on Climate Change announces that we have twelve years to reverse developments – twelve years. Greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced by 45% if the temperature is to increase by only 1.5 degrees. And already at 1.5 degrees the consequences will be enormous. Sweden has an important role in climate change, when it comes to pushing for change nationally but also internationally. Research and knowledge are needed in this work. It is high time for us to deepen our understanding of how climate change interacts with conflict-driven factors. Nationally, we must also move in a higher gear. Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. The climate policy framework is solid. All relevant legislation is reviewed. The climate targets shall be met. The Energy Agreement shall be implemented. And a powerful green tax shift is being made. Internationally, Sweden will push for a climate law at EU level. Reform efforts to implement the Paris Agreement will also be stepped up. The 1, 5-degree target must be reached. Madam President, I would like The future of mankind is at stake. A strong policy that reduces emissions is our only way forward. And time is running out. Let us continue with full force and take the lead in global change.
i-36e7d133990149b4-805	Madam President, I would like Much of what has been said in this debate is of the utmost importance, although political decisions in this area may not actually affect life for us here in Sweden. Instead, they influence the development of society in other parts of the world – just as foreign policy should. In my speech, however, I intend to highlight an area that in concrete terms affects the situation here at home: trade policy in general and Swedish exports in particular. Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that export success for an export-dependent country such as Sweden is directly crucial to our growth, our prosperity and, by extension, our well-being and public finances in general. Do not misinterpret me; I am fully aware that Swedish imports create the conditions for our exports, not least when Sweden is a country high up the value chain. Having said that, I still see a need to point out and problematise the trend that has been seen in Swedish exports. Moreover, focusing mainly on exports does not seem to me to be the only one. Otherwise, the previous government would obviously have called its export strategy for trade strategy. The then government handed over the export strategy to the Riksdag in December 2015. I think it is worth evaluating how Swedish exports have gone since then. According to Statatiska Centralbyrån's figures, the Swedish net trade, our exports of goods, was subtracted by our commodity tax, in a deficit of 14.7 billion in 2016. Then someone will certainly object that it is not fair to evaluate the government's strategy already in year one, but unfortunately, Madam President, no improvement has taken place thereafter. The Swedish net trade for 2017 landed at a deficit of 10.7 billion, and the recent figures from 2018 show a deficit of as much as 32.9 billion. I would like to draw the attention of Madam President to the fact that I am fully aware that any export strategy here or there is hardly the only factor affecting Sweden's net trade. Having said that, I would instead like to highlight four other factors likely to be of greater significance to our exports. The first factor is, of course, the global economic cycle, which has a major impact on the conditions in this area. However, it is difficult to blame in this case, since it has been good in recent years. Is it then, Madam President, the interest rate? Is it the one who has been too high and who has limited our investment capacity here in Sweden? No, it's even been negative. Could it then have been our currency that has kept exports down, Madam President? No, the Swedish krona has fallen in recent years and reached record low levels in 2018. It can be translated into that it has been relatively cheap for those with another currency to buy Swedish products, which should strengthen our exports. The last factor, the fourth factor, which I wish to highlight in this context, Madam President, is growth in Europe. Since 70% of our exports go to the countries of the EU's internal market, our exports are obviously affected and benefit from the growth of other countries. Swedish growth, in terms of GDP per capita, was at the absolute bottom of the EU in 2018. However, most EU countries have experienced reasonable growth in recent years. And with the said boom this should have led to increased imports of Swedish goods, among other things. The weak krona, the low interest rate, the global economic cycle and the EU countries' growth in harmony have thus pointed out that the export conditions for Sweden have been good. Despite this, and despite the export strategy of the previous government, we have not even been close to a surplus in our net trade. The Swedish Democrats therefore see a need for various measures in this area. On the one hand, Sweden needs to work for the EU to establish more free trade agreements and that these will benefit important sectors for Sweden and take our comparative advantages into account. On the other hand, Swedish competitiveness needs to be strengthened through national measures, such as active regulatory simplification, a future minimum level for the implementation of EU directives and SME initiatives – of course. Finally, Madam President, it should be mentioned, however, that there are good points in the export strategy. But the outgoing government apparently failed to bring Swedish exports to life. The question is what measures the new government intends to take in this area so that we can really bring about change. Madam President, I would like If a social democratic government fails to create sufficient conditions for Swedish exports during a boom, with a weak krona and negative interest rate, I do not even want to know how a social democratic government will fail in this area during a forthcoming recession.
i-36e7d133990149b4-819	Madam President, I would like I was not going to ask for a reply, but I was very surprised that a Swedish democrat was talking about the importance of exports. The Swedish Democrats are a party that wants to build walls around Sweden. A Swedish democrat talked about the importance of intra-EU trade. These are the same Swedish democrats who, until the day before yesterday, if I am not mistaken, actually wanted to leave the European Union. So I have to ask, what's it gonna be? Until the day before yesterday, you were for a svexith.
i-36e7d133990149b4-821	Madam President, I would like For example, if Mr Fazelian had been interested in our policy in this area, she would have been able to take part in the press conference last week, where we stressed the importance of free trade and the internal market. You can also check in our old principle programs. It clearly states that we are opposed to protectionism. Our scepticism against the EU has never been based on free trade or the internal market, but it is based solely on our opposition to the supranationality that prevails. We are opposed to the fact that Members of Parliament, such as Fazelian and I, are not sufficiently able to take decisions that affect us here. I think that Mr Fazelian, while she is standing here representing a government party, can respond to why it has so badly failed to get Swedish exports going. How is it that we have had a trade deficit in recent years? And what measures does the government intend to take in this area?
i-36e7d133990149b4-824	Madam President, I would like It's just the opposite. For example, during the previous four years, the government has developed a comprehensive export strategy and really invested in issues relating to Swedish trade and exports, as Sweden is hugely export dependent. But it is interesting to listen to Mr Andersson's reply. The problem with the Swedish Democrats is that the party's policy changes from day to day. It is extremely difficult to know what the policy that the Swedish Democrats stand for tomorrow means, because it changes from day to day. My question remains: how can the Swedish people take your policy around Europe seriously when, as recently as two days ago, you actually wanted a svexit?
i-36e7d133990149b4-827	Madam President, I would like If I had been a social democrat, I would have been very careful to criticise the fluctuations of other political parties, because in recent years the Social Democrats have put forward proposals that have even made me, as a Swedish democrat, proud of the political changes of the Social Democrats. It is precisely the export strategy that you are standing here celebrating, Mr Fazelian, that I questioned and argued against throughout my speech. I think it's been too toothless. Clearly, this export strategy has not brought any improvement to our exports. We have seen that since it was introduced in 2016, we have consistently had a deficit in our net trade. If Mr Fazelian justifies his export policy with the export strategy, I think there is much else to be desired, and we should probably fear a future recession for Sweden.
i-36e7d133990149b4-830	Madam President, I would like The year was 1868, and Nils Borg saw people suffering, being close to destruction. In Råneå municipality, which today is part of Luleå municipality, people had complained about the cold winter. This particular winter there had been tremendous amounts of snow, something that could be read in the local newspapers. It was famine, and once relief came, all the way from Stockholm, sometimes sent from St. Petersburg and sometimes all the way from the Crimea Peninsula, it was not distributed to those who really needed it. No, only those who could prove that they could pay back had access to emergency aid. Was this really reasonable? Did the help really come through? The wealthy peasants were given emergency aid, so much grain that it was enough and left over, while the poorest were given nothing at all. Nils Borg packed a backpack and got ready. In the cold winter he would go all the way to Stockholm. He would go to king's like disgruntled subjects for centuries before him to ask the ruler — the father of the people, its loving protector — to intervene and administer justice. If only the king finds out, everything will be made right. Now maybe there are some people in here who wonder why I am talking about the famine in the 1860s in Sweden. It is, in fact, a perfectly reasonable question. No one today remembers that Sweden was one of the world's poorest countries just a few generations back in time and needed emergency aid. The story that I told you comes mostly from the book Starvation, which received the August Prize last year. There are questions asked: Did the aid come out? Did you get it right? Did the donors do the right thing? These are almost the same questions that we have to ask ourselves today when it comes to our aid, when, as one of the richest countries in the world, we give to other countries in the world. I am thinking, for example, of when Haiti needed emergency aid or when the effects of El Niños struck with brutal force against Central and East Africa. Precisely in the last case, we can say that hundreds of thousands of lives were saved from starvation thanks to Swedish aid. We should be proud that our aid amounts to 1% of BNI. Sweden and a few other countries are the only ones in the world who achieve it. Some say that Swedish aid is only a drop in the ocean. Yes, perhaps so, but what is the sea if not a lot of drops? What does Swedish aid contribute to? The short answer is: a lot. I can give a little longer answer by telling you, for example, about the trip that the Foreign Affairs Committee made to Malawi. It is a country that lies between Mozambique and Zimbabwe. Few people in our latitudes have even heard of this country, but there are over 17 million people living there. Nordic aid, together with assistance from Gavi, the Global Fund, UNICEF and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, means that many children today survive, thanks to vaccines and better medicines. This is a very successful example of public-private collaboration, as it is said. If anyone wants to see the opposite, look at New Karolinska. They say the devil can be seen in the details. That's for sure, but so do the angels. Malawi reported on a girl who had received HIV from her parents. Only a few decades ago, it would have been a guaranteed death sentence. The other day she was trained as a nurse. A few years ago, in Sweden, a demonstration was held in support of freedom of expression and respect for human rights in Ethiopia. I passed that demonstration, which called for the release of a number of people. It was a journey for me in the fight for human rights in the Horn of Africa. Last week in Addis Abeba I was able to meet people whose names I mentioned in this pulpit, now as free people – free and full of fighting spirit. I sat for over an hour with the new Prime Minister, Dr. Abiy, in a conversation about peace, reconciliation and the incredibly important process towards democracy. All this started with a demonstration in a wintry Stockholm a couple of years ago. Thanks to all the Swedish-ethiopies and Ethiopians who made this possible! Travel, Madam President, may look a little different. Nils Borg came to Stockholm after walking through an ice cold Sweden for 50 days. Apparently, he made it by selling pins during his trip. He never got to see the king. His criticism, however, came to light, and an investigation was set up into the distribution of aid to Sweden. From his trek, modern Sweden was awakened. We will continue that journey forward.
i-36e7d133990149b4-844	Madam President, I would like Following a parliamentary decision in June 2015, Swedes were sent to Erbil in Iraq's KRG region to contribute to international efforts to combat the Islamic State. Sweden would contribute with training of defence forces, which was appreciated, so the relationship between Sweden and the KRG region and peshmerga has become very good. The Swedish training efforts have, on the one hand, increased the possibility of humanitarian aid to civilians and, on the other hand, increased the possibility of self-defense when terrorists have struck. For several reasons, the Swedish operation has previously been directed mainly to the area around the capital of the KRG region Erbil and the Kurdish region, rather than to the rest of Iraq. The KRG region has distinguished itself by a relatively good democratic and economic development and as one of the main and most effective forces against the Islamic State. Fortunately, since then, the Islamic State has been pushed back, but as a result of the still current threat, there is a need for continued support for peshmerga. It is a threat that has been reinforced as we unfortunately still see threats from different IS cells. On top of that, despite diplomatic mediation efforts by the KRG region, the Iraqi Government has chosen to attack and occupy former KRG-controlled areas. Madam President, I would like The brutal and essentially Iran-supported Shiamis who have been responsible for these unacceptable attacks should be held accountable for what they have done. The attacks should have been condemned by the outside world, and the Kurds, who have valiantly fought against terrorism, should have received our clear support. But no, once again the Kurds saw an enormous betrayal. History is not improved by the knowledge that the perpetrators used American tanks and materiel intended to fight the Islamic State and other terrorist groups. Madam President, I would like Although we have clearly seen how the Iraqi Government has used international support to attack its own population, Sweden has chosen to focus directly or indirectly on helping the perpetrators – to the forces that stand for these terrible attacks. First of all, it is completely unreasonable for Sweden to support two parties in an internal conflict. Worse still, Sweden has chosen to reduce aid to the KRG region. For me, this is totally unacceptable, and I find no words to describe the frustration that I and many others feel. To conclude, Madam President, I should like to make one thing clear: the Swedes who served in connection with the military contribution in the form of the training operation in Iraq deserve a great deal of thanks for their efforts. Nevertheless, I would like to appeal to all Members of Parliament to actually understand the situation we are seeing in Iraq. The purpose of the operation is to create peace and stability. Our mission is to contribute to good development in both the KRG region and Iraq. Swedish support should primarily be meant to combat the Islamic State, but also to secure the people's self-defense, today and in the future. The Swedish military training efforts should not go to troops directly or indirectly controlled by those who have actually exacerbated the situation in the country since IS was driven away. The Swedish contribution should be directed to our friends in the KRG region as long as they continue to respect and protect minorities and continue the diplomatic work towards the regime in Baghdad.
i-36e7d133990149b4-852	Madam President, I would like International cooperation is important for our industry. This provides better opportunities for exports and trade, which provides better conditions for growth in Sweden. Through international cooperation, we can also contribute to improving the working environment and conditions for workers worldwide. We all benefit from that. Thanks to EU and international cooperation, our export industry is being strengthened. Two thirds of our exports go to the countries of the EU's so-called internal market, where we have better conditions than in trade with other countries. That is why we need individuals and states who believe in and stand up for free trade and openness, continue to stick to it and do not give protectionist forces influence. The EU has signed free trade agreements with Canada and Japan, among others, in recent years. This creates export opportunities and jobs in Sweden, which provides income needed to finance our welfare. Madam President, I would like Every year nearly 4,000 workers die at work in Europe, and even more in the world. Through international cooperation, we can improve the working environment for all workers in Sweden and the world with common rules. We need more politicians who stand up to employers who want to increase profits at the expense of the working environment and safety at work. Workers should not compete with each other through shortcomings and savings in the working environment. Madam President, I would like In the EU, the Social Democrats' Marita Marita has led the work on the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive, which now makes it possible to claim equal pay for foreign and Swedish workers who do the same job. The Social Democrats have also been the driving force in putting the pillar of social rights in place, covering 20 areas that improve for ordinary people. These include, for example, lifelong learning, gender equality, secure employment, dialogue between the parties and improved working environment. Trade union rights are not possible without human and democratic rights. We have to put man first. We need more democracy, not less.
i-36e7d133990149b4-858	Madam President, I would like In the foreign policy of the Swedish Democrats, respect for fundamental human rights is central. One of these rights is freedom of religion and the right to have faith. To many people in the world, having faith has been life - making and has meant everything. Especially in states of oppression, it may be personal faith that makes you able to survive the day. On the other hand, religion must never be used in any way as a platform for oppression, persecution and violence against others. Madam President, I would like I cannot almost compare it to the hatred and persecution that religious minorities are subjected to worldwide, but I have still experienced a stabbing of the hatred and humiliation that can be directed at you because you have a personal faith. We in Sweden Democrats stand up for several minorities around the world and condemn all political and religious violence. We have repeatedly criticised the terrible abuses committed against the Moslem Rohingya people in Myanmar. We have defended the people of Western Sahara and condemned the oppression they live under. We stand up clearly for the rights of the Kurds. My best colleague, Sara Seppälä, has explained this clearly today, so I will not go into it any further in my speech. Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats have also been clear in our condemnation of the terrible and sadly also increasing anti-Semitism in Europe and the rest of the world. In several Middle Eastern countries where Jews previously lived, the Jewish population is soon completely extinct. The statements still made – with the support even of representatives of the Palestinian Authority – to the Jewish people and Israel are disgusting. The terrorist organization Hamas is making repeated attacks on Israel and aims to destroy Israel and exterminate the Jewish people. The fact that the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs has chosen, with these conditions, to go forward and recognise Palestine and thereby ruin relations with the only democracy in the Middle East is deeply sad. I hope that Foreign Minister Wallström is serious about her words about countering anti-Semitism both in Sweden and in other parts of the world, including the Palestinian territories, and that she will work hard to re-establish diplomatic relations with Israel. Another minority facing persecution and oppression worldwide are Christians, often referred to as the world's most persecuted group. It is not possible to list all countries where Christians are having a difficult time, but I wanted to mention a few. The situation of the Christian Copts in Egypt has long been difficult. With the success of the Islamic State, the safety of Christians in Egypt has further deteriorated with several terrorist acts and many killed as a result. The government must start acting and show clear support for the Christian Copts in Egypt. Madam President, I would like In Nigeria, a number of attacks on Christians and also on Muslims who do not want to accept Sharia have been carried out by the Islamist group Boko Haram. In some states, decisions have been taken that have led Christians to restrictions and discrimination at school, threatened by kidnapping, forced marriages and denied employment, clean water and health care. In an attack on a Christian village in February 2018, 106 people were killed. Boko Haram was behind the attack, and there have been many more such attacks. North Korea is consistently considered the world's most dangerous country for Christians. Here it is not extreme Islamism that is behind the persecution but extreme communism. The people of the country live under constant oppression from a repressive regime that lacks tolerance for the slightest tendency to dissent from its citizens. In the country there is a risk of not only being imprisoned and put in concentration camps for having a personal faith but also being executed. I assume that our government will act against the terrible concentration camps in North Korea. Madam President, I would like The horrendous civil wars in Syria and neighbouring Iraq have now entered a less intensive phase, but the situation is still difficult. Here, too, Christians have been particularly vulnerable. The events in Mosul are a telling example of the vulnerable situation of Christians in Syria and Iraq, which can only be described as religious and cultural genocide. Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström stressed in the foreign policy declaration that Sweden supports the reform efforts of the new Iraqi Government. Improving relations between the various ethnic and religious groups of the country, such as the Christians, and the status of the Kurds are crucial for long-term peace and stability in Iraq. It is very positive that Mrs Wallström at least mentions the Christians in Iraq. This has not always been the case in foreign policy in Sweden. However, if the government is serious about supporting the Christians and other minorities in Iraq, I assume that, in the context of both aid policy and foreign policy, for example, the government supports reconstruction and self-government in the Nineves plain and reconstruction in Syria. Madam President, I would like The Swedish parliament and government should also show their unequivocal support for the survivors and recognise the Islamic state's campaign of terror in Iraq and Syria against, among other things, Assyrians, Syrians, Druses, Christians, Kurds, Mandés, Shabaker, Shia Muslims, Turkmens and Yazidians in recent years as a genocide. It is a shame that Sweden, like the Council of Europe and the European Parliament, has not recognised this terrible crime against humanity as a genocide. We hope that this will happen.
i-36e7d133990149b4-872	Madam President, I would like Our goal is a nuclear-free world, as stated in today's government declaration on foreign policy. What could be a more pressing objective? I believe that today this must be seen as a predestined issue of the same magnitude as action against the climate threat. To devote more effort to the question of how to face the threat of nuclear war requires us to look at what is actually happening. It is quite clear that we are now facing a beginning new phase of nuclear arms arms. The United States and Russia are breaking up their agreement on disarmament. What is happening now is the modernisation and streamlining of nuclear arsenals in the two countries. Something similar is reported from China. One trend in this is to invest in a large number of technological nuclear weapons with lower power than in the past and which can be used more easily in more situations. In other words, the threshold is being lowered. This in turn increases the risk of a first use, i.e. that a party will fire such nuclear weapons to be sure that the counterparty will not be given a chance to attack first. The fact that this can really be a risk has been reinforced by statements by US President Trump. In practice, this development undermines the theory of the positive effect of a mutual deterrent effect, what used to be called the terrorist balance. A devastating war may result from misunderstandings or misinformation about the intentions of the opposing party. The current 50-year NPT has a clause for nuclear weapons states to enter into disarmament negotiations with a view to total disarmament. However, hopes for this have not been met. In addition, the number of nuclear states in these years has increased to nine. The fact is that the entire existing nuclear arms regulatory framework is threatened by decommissioning instead of reinforcement. It was precisely the concern about these developments that led to the work on an international Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. 122 countries signed this at the UN just over a year ago. We participated and were very active in the preparations for an agreement on the wording of such a convention, and now the situation is that high expectations are placed on Sweden to play a leading role in the further work on that convention. We have a history that has created expectations in the outside world, and then the question is how we approach ourselves. That is what will be discussed during the consultation that we discussed this morning. Several misconceptions have already been launched in this debate, even in the course of the day. Firstly, this Convention does not conflict with the NPT. This is a misconception. Secondly, it is not the case that the Convention would make mutual disarmament impossible. It would not make it impossible with a balanced disarmament with several at the same time. On the contrary, the Convention, if ratified and disseminated, could contribute to increased pressure on those countries that currently have nuclear weapons. So it could serve the purpose that we are really looking for. Thirdly, it is also not true that this convention would give Russia a chance to sabotage international treaties, as has been mentioned during the debate. This is an extremely important issue, and it seems that the real argument against the Convention is that we are concerned about irritating Washington and that it would make it more difficult for us to have military cooperation with NATO or with the United States. To conclude, I would like to quote what I think is the strongest argument against that reasoning. It comes from none other than Hans Blix, the former Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Head of the IAEA. This is what he wrote a while ago:"Protocols are being made that, in return for continued close defence cooperation with the US/NATO, we will refrain from a long-established independent Swedish policy aimed at detour and disarmament. In my opinion, it would not benefit Sweden, the United States or NATO that we give in to such pressure. We should sign the new Convention, which is primarily a much-needed contribution to delegating nuclear weapons. Especially in today's world situation. .....................................................
i-36e7d133990149b4-885	Madam President, I would like I don't think anyone wants a nuclear-free world. Well, I hope so. We in the Swedish Democrats have been very clear that we believe that this Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons is a blow in the air because no nuclear-bearing state has signed it or even participated in its work. We may think what we want about these things, but if they are not on the boat, it is difficult to make any difference at all. In addition, if we were to sign and ratify this convention, Sweden would be placed in a difficult situation in terms of security policy. Then we would not be able to use a country or an alliance that has nuclear weapons in a conflict. For example, Denmark and Norway could not help us. When I read the foreign policy declaration, I get the impression that the government has turned around on the issue of ratification. Is that also Thomas Hammarberg's view?
i-36e7d133990149b4-889	Madam President, I would like I felt that the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned very clearly that we are now waiting for the consultation process. Then the government will take a stand, hopefully with the support of Parliament. On this point, I have nothing to say but what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. As far as the assessment of the impact of this is concerned, I have a different view from that of the honourable Member. I think it is very important that there is pressure on the nuclear powers that the outside world does not accept a situation where some have these nuclear weapons and the rest of us depend on how they handle nuclear weapons. As I tried to describe in my speech: there is a tendency right now to a kind of arms race with nuclear weapons as an instrument, and this is threatening. Having a broad international opinion indicating that we do not want such a development, we believe would speed up the possibility of a reversal in the states of the nuclear powers.
i-36e7d133990149b4-892	Madam President, I would like I think there's a double signal coming from the government party. In the past, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has more or less wanted to run the issue of Sweden ratifying this convention right into the tile. However, today's foreign policy declaration rightly states that the investigation – which I would also like to emphasise – saws this convention at the ankles and recommends that it not be ratified – has been submitted for consultation. However, the government also writes as follows: This is good. We will therefore take a new initiative and bring together a wide range of countries to work towards shared responsibility for nuclear disarmament. ..................................................... From having wanted to run the issue of us ratifying all the way into the tile, I feel that all of a sudden people have retreated and listened to what the investigation says, even if it is now out for a referral. At the same time, Thomas Hammarberg puts forward another opinion here in the speaker's chair, that they should be driven into the tile.
i-36e7d133990149b4-895	Madam President, I would like This was not a formula used by the Foreign Minister in his petition today. Her line and message here was that we should wait for the referral procedure and study the posts that come there, because there will certainly be other posts than the type of posts that have already arrived. It is important that this issue be analysed at the bottom so that we really know what we are doing and preferably build a form of consensus across party boundaries on this issue. So nothing has changed there. Personally, I think it is very important for the discussion on this draft convention to become factual. It has not always been factual, and there was evidence of this in today's debates as well.
i-36e7d133990149b4-898	Madam President, I would like I have noted this morning that there is a debate both in this House and in the national media on my move to move the embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. So I volunteered to give a brief account of my reasoning on the matter. When we study our history, the history of the Nordic countries, we note that there were wars between the neighbouring peoples for 500 to 600 years every 30 years. Each generation fought with each other until 1814 and the peace then. We were about to fight with each other in 1905, but then we solved it without war. Today, this Parliament would probably not be able to make a decision to attack Norway. The Swede would simply not rise. You'd think if the Parliament went crazy. So we have gone from a period when it was quite natural to fight with each other to a period when peace is self-evident. I sat in Parliament in 1998–2002 and was then privileged to visit Berlin and also our new embassy in Berlin. The exciting thing about our new embassy in Berlin is that there are five embassies in one area. The North is together. The Nordic countries show their unity, their mutual respect – they could even use the expression As early as the parliamentary year 2000/01, therefore, I tabled a motion in Parliament, and I think I am the first in Sweden to have done so, in which I simply stated that we should do the same in Jerusalem. We should talk to our Nordic neighbours and show the Nordic example based on the idea of actually showing hope. It is not obvious that neighbors should fight with each other for hundreds of years. It was obvious to us. Today is not self-evident. To just move our embassy and talk to our neighbours and see if we could bring about this Berlin idea to show reconciliation, I tabled a motion on 2000. Now I have the privilege of coming back to Parliament and have presented a similar motion today. I am very pleased that my own party is highlighting this exercise. I am also very pleased – perhaps also a little surprised – that the Liberals have also chosen to join it. I think it is important that we in Sweden and especially in the Nordic countries show how a so-called warm peace works. I know that the concepts of warm peace and cold peace are not something you students use, but in international relations a cold peace is the same as having made peace but not socializing with each other. This is the case in many parts of the Middle East. There is peace, but the border is not open to movement, trade and joint studies. In a warm peace you travel between countries. Studying between countries. It may happen, listen and be amazed, that you get married across national borders. Somewhere there is my warm vision that we in Sweden will move our embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem and also continue to strive for reconciliation, peace and that the Middle East will enjoy the warm peace that we have in the Nordic countries.
i-36e7d133990149b4-907	Madam President, I would like I do not know if Magnus Jacobsson has observed an interesting thing in the government's foreign declaration that I have not previously observed. It says that Sweden, like the rest of the EU, sees Jerusalem as the future capital of two states. I have not seen the government mention this at all before. It's quite interesting. When the Israeli Parliament held its first ordinary session in 1949, it was decided that Jerusalem is the capital of the Jewish state, as it has been since 1950, when Israel moved its government to western Jerusalem. Today in Jerusalem, as has been pointed out here in the pulpit before, there are both Parliament, the President, the Supreme Court and the Ministries, and also social and cultural institutions and authorities are installed in Jerusalem. I welcome Magnus Jacobsson's motion that Sweden should move its embassy to Jerusalem. We have also put forward such motions. But why do you write that this is going to happen in the long run? That's my question.
i-36e7d133990149b4-910	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Björn Söder, for the question! When working with interpersonal and international relations, you must always work consciously and through dialogue. The reason why I wrote in the long run is that I want us to indicate a direction of will and then we work in that direction. Then I wish it would happen as soon as possible. It is quite logical to place embassies in the cities where they have counterparts. We have not the opposite in Tel Aviv, but in Jerusalem. Personally, I see that an embassy based on the same idea as the one in Berlin could well serve two countries if you have a warm peace.
i-36e7d133990149b4-912	Madam President, I would like As I said, we welcome this exercise. We have also put forward motions ourselves that our embassy should move, but we want to do so immediately. Even if a decision is made here and now – if the government's hill decides that the Swedish Embassy will be moved from the financial centre Tel Aviv to the de facto capital city of Israel, which is Jerusalem – it will not happen overnight. That's why I don't really understand why they write that it should happen in the long term. The decision may well be taken now, and it will still take some time before it can be implemented. Then I agree that this should be coordinated in some way with the other Nordic countries, for example. It would be good to get everyone on the boat, so that you try to coordinate the localities and so on. This is an ongoing discussion and process, but why wait and make decisions only in the long term?
i-36e7d133990149b4-916	Madam President, I would like I have noted with great pleasure that things have happened. When I presented this exercise for the first time in 2000 - 2001, I was very lonely. On that occasion, I believe that not even my party voted for me, but it was an individual motion which was dealt with as such. I have also noted over time that the Swedish Democrats have joined the line that I pursued in 2000 – 2001. I think that is good, because I think it is good that we are having a conversation about where the embassy should be. But I've already answered the reason why I'm writing in the long run. I think that this is best taken forward in a good conversation, so that more parties and debaters and also the various parties have time to think about it a little. The direction of the game is clear. We should take a decision to move the Swedish Embassy to this home, namely to the capital of Israel. It should be built in such a way that it can serve several. That is my firm opinion. I am very pleased with what has happened in this House today. I'm very grateful and happy. It's an exciting day.
i-36e7d133990149b4-921	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson, for a very sympathetic post! I also think it is important to have dialogue and to sit down with each other. When it comes to the debate in Palestine and outside Palestine and Israel, it is usually the extremists who have to set the agenda. I also think it is very important to try to find a way forward, and it must go through dialogue. There is no military solution to the conflict. There is also no solution where one is inciting one another or another. But I would also like to point out that Jerusalem is annexed in violation of international law. During the occupation, the West Bank has been divided into three administrative districts, A, B and C, also in violation of international law. The number of settlers in Palestine currently stands at over 600 000. So I would like to ask the honourable Member: what do you think about the timing of no one, that you are presenting this motion right now?
i-36e7d133990149b4-923	I would like to remind you that we are talking through the President.
i-36e7d133990149b4-924	Madam President, I would like This conflict has been going on for over 100 years. I think the question of timing will be difficult. When I listen to the various parties, I am not sure that we have approached a warm peace. After all, after the Oslo negotiations, they have a form of cold peace. I think that we in Sweden rather need to look at what is appropriate and how we treat other countries. It is a little strange that Israel is being treated in a special way and that we do not treat any other countries in that way. That's why I think it might be a good time to move our embassy. It also gets a little weird: the Embassy in relation to Israel we have in Tel Aviv, but the de facto embassy that manages the Palestinian Authority – I know it is a consulate – is located in Jerusalem. It's gonna be weird.
i-36e7d133990149b4-927	Madam President, I would like Magnus Jacobsson says that we treat Israel in one way and other countries in other ways. In what respects, and what examples can be given? For Jerusalem is annexed in violation of international law. The view of the Social Democrats is that Jerusalem should be the capital of both Israel and Palestine, as part of a two-state solution.
i-36e7d133990149b4-929	Madam President, I would like There's a dividing line here. I believe that parts of Jerusalem can already be accepted as the capital of Israel today. It's actually their capital. It works operationally as the capital. There is no one I know who argues that in the future, in a peace agreement, it would not be the capital of Israel. I respect your attitude, but I think it's obsolete. With regard to the conflict as such, I think it is important, regardless of which side we stand politically, that we from the Swedish side continue to point to the concept of reconciliation. What we managed to do in the Nordic countries was reconciliation. We should remember that we had laws where it was different punishments if you murdered a Danish person or a Swedish person. We don't have that today. Reconciliation and peace over Jerusalem, regardless of the people, I believe it is extremely important to continue to fight for.
