i-3f439628ab885feb-9	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I can explain my analysis of why the unemployment target does not seem to be reached and what I could have done differently in order to achieve the unemployment target that the government has set itself. The unemployment target has served as a steering year for government policy, and during the last term of office the Swedish labour market developed very strongly. Employment increased by over 300 000 persons, of which 200 000 were born abroad. The whole job growth has come about in regular jobs, not through subsidised employment. We have the highest employment rate ever measured by Eurostat in one EU country and the highest in Sweden for over 25 years. No other EU country has a larger share of its population in the labour force. The establishment of new arrivals in the labour market is accelerating. The unemployment rate is almost down to 6 per cent and decreased by over 1.5 percentage points during the previous term of office. More than half of the reduction in unemployment was assessed in the 2018 budget proposal as attributable to the government's fiscal policy. Youth unemployment decreased by about 6 percentage points over the same period. The share of the replacement and insurance schemes is the lowest in 1981. The deficit of some 60 billion left by the former bourgeois government has turned into a large surplus. The government debt ratio fell in 2018 at its lowest level since 1977.
i-3f439628ab885feb-14	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to congratulate the Government on its continuing role as Minister of Labour. The Government may, of course, give a thought to its government base: the Left Party, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals. Madam President, I would like I asked this question on the basis of the allegations made by the Government at the beginning of the year that the government is now removing Stefan Lövven's most important election promise – the election promise he made in connection with the 2014 elections and the promise he made in connection with the entry into force of the Social Democratic Government in 2015. As everyone could hear just now, Madam President, I did not get an answer to the two simple questions I had asked, namely: can the Minister explain his analysis of why the unemployment target does not seem to be reached? And perhaps the most important question, Madam President, for the next parliamentary term: what could the Minister have done differently so that Sweden could achieve the unemployment target that had been set? I note that the Government must be film interested. I guess the government's favorite movie is Back to the Future. If it is Back to the Future 1, 2 or 3, then we will have to sort it out in this debate. Sweden was in place in 2014 12 in Eurostat's ranking, and in 2018 we were in place 19. Then it is quite strong to say that the government is scrapping a target because of the alliance budget of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. This has been the case, Madam President. You can tick off the Social Democratic promises. Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. You couldn't reach that, so you ironed it. The unemployment rate would be below 6% in 2018. We know it's not. The Arbetsförmedlingen would be a matching specialist. We could check it out; it did not happen. It's not okay with 70 000 long-term unemployed, said Prime Minister 2012. By December 2018, 78,000 had been unemployed for more than two years. New arrivals will be in work within two years," said Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson in Ekot 2015 – she thought it was a realistic goal. It is 7% of new arrivals who work without subsidised employment. Trainee jobs were one of Stefan Lövven's most important election promises at the 2014 elections. You would create 32,000 trainee jobs. When I went in and looked at Arbetsförmedlingen's statistics in December 2018, 27 people got a trainee job. Madam President, I would like There's a huge difference between 32,000 trainee jobs and 27. The government promised 5,000 modern standby jobs. There were 2,017 people who had standby jobs, of which about half had it at Arbetsförmedlingen. This is what we can do, Madam President, with promises made by the Social Democrats: check off and find a failure. My two questions remain. The most important thing is: What could the Government have done differently so that it could have achieved the goal it set itself?
i-3f439628ab885feb-24	Madam President, I would like I was eager to throw myself into this discussion because, surprisingly, Lars Beckman from the Moderates had a rather interesting question. How could one have done to get even lower unemployment? I'll be right back to that. There are quite a few misleading statements and reflections from Lars Beckman, which it is important to comment on for someone who is interested in labour market issues. The Social Democratic unemployment case has not been mine, and I do not think it needs to be defended. However, it is interesting to ask what type of development Lars Beckman and the Moderates think is relevant and interesting. I may find it relevant and interesting whether fewer people have become unemployed or not – if there has been a policy in Sweden to increase the proportion of the population who are in work and get paid or not. We are some who remember how the Moderates for the 2006 elections were very interested in statistics. At the time, the discussion on their part was basically the opposite. It didn't matter what type of unemployment statistics you used, because the interesting thing was how many people go to work on a normal day. We remember some rather unsuccessful attempts to spread misconceptions about this. People were supposed to be on vacation or in military service or something. Finally, it could be said that it is important to discuss unemployment and the proportion of job seekers who do not have a job. But of course it is at least as important to discuss it together with the question of how much of the population is working. As the Minister was aware, it is a very high proportion that does so in Sweden. Could the percentage be higher? Yes, absolutely. Then we are in on the original question that Lars Beckman asked but which he does not seem to be so interested in really. If you look at the historical facts and so on, you can say that investment in education and infrastructure is important. A great deal of this was done during the last parliamentary term. Let's see what happens this period. It is very important that you have resources in the municipalities, where a lot of work is done that is necessary and that needs to be financed through the public sector. There I have great concern that the new coalition that governs will not be able to make the kind of priorities that are necessary precisely to reduce taxes on those with the highest incomes. Let's see. Another thing to avoid is the destruction of the Public Employment Service, for example. There may be a risk of that happening, but there is another interpellation about it. Let me sum it up. What should be done to reduce unemployment? If you look at both the last parliamentary term and Sweden's modern history, the answer is quite clear: Don't do what the Moderates want, because then things are going badly! One can of course ask the Minister how, despite the cooperation with the Centers and Liberals, one can avoid doing what the Moderates want. It will be interesting to follow that discussion. For my part, I think it is important that unemployment should be reduced. We can see that we have a very high employment rate in Sweden, that is, many people who work for wages. It is not because of moderate politics but because it has been avoided.
i-3f439628ab885feb-34	Madam President, I would like The objective of having the lowest unemployment rate in Europe is and has always been difficult to achieve. It was already when it was set up, and it has become even more difficult. The big difference, of course, is the proportion of the population in the labour force. It hits unemployment statistics directly. I am proud that we have a very high proportion of the population in the workforce. It is a steadily increasing proportion. It's good for Sweden. But it also affects unemployment statistics. I would never try to get people out of the workforce to meet an unemployment target. This is the wrong way to go. I can only influence Sweden, and in Sweden unemployment has fallen and the employment rate is really record high. It's impressively high, I must say. We have a record employment rate. When, during the refugee crisis, Sweden received more refugees – much more refugees – than other EU countries, many believed that this would lead to an increase in unemployment. But we managed to do it and still reduce unemployment. When I took office it was, I think, about 19% who were in work after two years in the establishment. Now we're above 32%. Of course, I am not satisfied with that, but we have steered very clearly towards having less time to work. For many years it took nine years for half of a group of refugees to be established in the labour market. Now we're down for five years. I am, of course, not satisfied with this, but we have achieved considerable success in the past term of office. All groups have increased their employment rate, but most of all it has increased for women born abroad. This is particularly gratifying. That group is still the lowest, but in the past it was very much lower than other groups. Now the foreign-born women are approaching the other groups, despite the fact that the other groups have also increased their employment rate. Another group that has grown a lot are over 65. It is also very pleasing, because we need people who can and want to work longer. I believe that the objective has worked well as a steering year for economic and labour market policy and has produced good results. But I will still take seriously Lars Beckman's question: What could have been done differently? What I can see is that more people should be in education. With the high skills gaps in the labour market, there are even more people in the workforce who should take part in vocational training. It has, of course, taken time to build up the education with the Knowledgelift. We have done so gradually. However, there is still too small a share of the short-skilled unemployed entering education and training. There I think you need to do even more.
i-3f439628ab885feb-43	Madam President, I would like It would of course have been a sensation if unemployment in Sweden had risen sharply in a boom. I do not believe that this is what the Government means. But the interesting thing here is of course: what is the government's policy that has led to a reduction in unemployment? In fact, I think there might be voters who believed in Stefan Löfven. I think there may be voters who believed in Minister Ylva Johansson when they went and voted. In the election campaign they were told that we should have Europe's lowest unemployment, and there may actually be those who believed in it. Clearly, then, it must be disappointing when, for example, Germany has an unemployment rate of 3% and the United Kingdom has an unemployment rate of 4%. Country after country has passed Sweden, and now we are in place 19. Then you can always discuss whether the target was right. The objective could have been achieved if there had been a significant increase in unemployment in the other countries. Then, of course, Sweden had climbed the ranking. It was the chance this government was hoping for; what do I know. We can look at the group of new arrivals. The Government said in an interview in 2015 that she thought it was a realistic goal for newly arrived immigrants to be in work within two years. Today, 7% of newcomers work without subsidised employment. Of course it's not good. The fast track has also been a kind of parade number for the Government. Let me give you an example: chefs. There are 5 000 chefs missing in Sweden. In December 2018, 32 people participated in the fast track to become chefs. This is how we can proceed. I messed up a lot in my last post. There are major shortcomings in government policy here. The really interesting thing we're not going to find out. But if taxes had not been increased by 60 000 million in the last parliamentary term, if employers' contributions had not been doubled for young people and if there had not been a large increase in taxes directed at the business sector, what would it look like then? Perhaps we had even reached the goal of the EU's lowest unemployment rate. I think it is important for democracy – not least this comes up in the next interpellation debate, when we are going to debate the Employment Service – that politicians, after an election, do what they have said before the elections to do. When setting targets, they should be realistic and feasible. Otherwise, I think it can cause disappointment and frustration to the Swedish people. Of course, if outside parties are growing because of people's frustration, it is deeply unfortunate. I saw that Stefan Löfven in Aftonbladet this week said: If you say so, it must also stick politics together. You have to have a policy for more people in work. One must have a policy for a better business environment. You have to have a policy for good infrastructure, just as the Government said. I was in Ljusdal yesterday, where the successful company Pege told me how dependent they are on infrastructure. They are dependent on the plate coming from SSAB in Borlänge, and they drive the products down to Skåne. Even one thing like anti-slip is therefore important to bring down unemployment in Ljusdal. If you are to be able to exist in the whole country, the whole of Sweden must be able to live.
i-3f439628ab885feb-53	Madam President, I would like Those of us who have followed the general debate have found that the Moderates are a party with great problems. It's a party that's been hit by a lot of crises. Perhaps that is what is reflected in a lack of interest in what is happening in reality or in the content of politics. One is more interested in how to spin things around political opponents. It seems very clear now, even more clearly after this post, that Lars Beckman is not so interested in whether there are more or fewer unemployed, if there are more or fewer people working, in Sweden. He is more interested in how Stefan Löfven might formulate some kind of goal in 2014. I think it is interesting if unemployment increases or decreases. I think it was a good thing that unemployment was reduced by the policy pursued during the last parliamentary term. I also think it is good that Sweden has a high employment rate. Sweden is therefore the country in the European Union that has the highest proportion of the population in paid employment. Do I think it can get better? Yes, absolutely, there is much that can be done to improve this. As we were aware, most of the evidence suggests that it is a matter of avoiding doing what Lars Beckman and the Moderates in other contexts think should be done. It was interesting that Lars Beckman mentioned anti-slip and other infrastructure – that in some magical way it should be improved while at the same time representing a policy of major tax cuts. It is an issue that may deserve a debate of its own or even a seminar. That is also where I am concerned about the incoming government. How is it possible to implement the major efforts in a tax reduction policy? But we will have to come back to that in other contexts.
i-3f439628ab885feb-58	Madam President, I would like It was interesting that, according to him, Lars Beckman picked up the alternative ways of combating unemployment, namely reduced taxes and halved or reduced employers' contributions for young people. The interesting thing about those proposals is that they have been tried. They worked very badly. Despite incredibly expensive subsidies – almost 20 billion per year in subsidies to young people – we had youth unemployment among the higher in Europe. It was so high that we received EU support. We changed the politics. We restored employers' contributions and started working in a different way with youth unemployment – with very good results. Youth unemployment has fallen dramatically and is the lowest since 2001. It is always possible to say that more can be done, but it is not about going back to the policy that both failed and made the voters want a change of government. After all, it was employment policy that caused the Moderates to lose government power. Nor does it feel that in the last elections it was the policy of the Moderates that attracted a great many new voters. Maybe that's why Lars Beckman is a little bitter. In fact, I do not really understand this feeling in order to see it as a failure that young people do not have subsidised employment or are in labour market policy measures, but rather actually have unsubsidised jobs. That's what we've done. There are far fewer young people in different types of measures. I think that is a success. I do not see at all that young people should have a trainee job if they can have a regular job. If they can have a regular job, which is not a trainee job, I think it's much better. I am not the one who despises subsidised employment. They are good tools, for example for those who are new in Sweden. I think it is quite natural that many, before they have learned Swedish properly and before they have learned how it works in a Swedish workplace, take a job with a subsidy. It also seems to work very well. I said when I took office more than four years ago that I think that normally one should become established in the labour market or get into training during the two-year period of establishment. I still think so. That's still what I'm heading for. We have gone from 27 percent to 44 percent over the past four years, although there have been an incredible number more in the establishment. It's a good result, but I'm not content. I still see it taking way too long. It's too long lead times. I am sure that, for four years, this can be speeded up and done even faster and that it is possible to get an even greater proportion of people who are established in the labour market or who are involved in studies. We have very few people going to study. I would like to see more new arrivals go into studies. There we have seen a very marginal increase. Almost the whole increase applies to people who come to work. Of course, there are individual individuals who may have particular difficulties – I am aware of that. Then you'd have to imagine it might take a little longer. But normally, if they do not have many other problems, such as diseases, disabilities or other things, I think that we should steer towards this within two years. We will come up with more proposals in this area to further speed it up and to get more established in the labour market in a short time.
i-3f439628ab885feb-68	Madam President, I would like The Left Party's attack on the lowering of taxes for the richest is probably a debate that the Left Party is allowed to bring with it the Social Democrats, which intend to remove the entire military tax from 1 January. Göran Greider may not be so readable all the time, but he has a headline in the Dala-Democrat leader. I think it's published in the paper today. He asks about this question: Can you trust Ylva Johansson? He does so from a left-wing perspective, but the question is as relevant to me as moderate and not least to the Swedish people. So the nine promises made by the Social Democrats have not been kept. Unfortunately, promises have failed after promises. We fully agree that more people need to get to work. We fully agree that Sweden must have an active business policy and a policy for a better business environment. But it is clear that it must be worrying when you promise the Swedish people that we will have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. When that promise was made, we were in place 14, and now we're in position 19. Sweden has an unemployment rate of over 6 per cent despite Stefan Löfven's promise that it would be below 6 per cent. You can look at countries like us in some way: Germany and England. They have significantly lower unemployment rates. It is clear that every person in Sweden who goes unemployed even though you want to or could work is a failure, especially given that I meet many entrepreneurs who say: I could hire people. It's a huge failure for the old government. I very much hope that the new government, with a new government base, will be able to conduct a better policy for Sweden that will bring unemployment down and more people into work.
i-3f439628ab885feb-74	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Lars Beckman thinks that it is a failure if we do not have 32 000 young people in a labour market policy measure and instead they have got a job in a regular labour market. Instead of having such a high youth unemployment rate that you get EU support, you reach the lowest youth unemployment rate in 18 years. Lars Beckman sees that as a failure. I have just the opposite view of this. Unemployment has decreased year after year as I have been Minister of Labour, while employment and employment rates have increased. I'm proud of that. There are many similarities between Sweden, Germany and England, which Lars Beckman mentions. But there are also differences. One of the major differences is that these two countries have a significantly lower proportion of the population in the labour force. I will never steer towards and aim for us to have fewer people in the workforce. It is not worth getting better unemployment statistics. I am always going to make sure that policies are put in place to ensure that as many people as possible are in the labour force. Swedish politics has succeeded. Other countries are responsible for their success.
i-3f439628ab885feb-77	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me how to introduce the new system and how much implementation costs are. According to the January Agreement, the Public Employment Service is to be fundamentally reformed. The change in Arbetsförmedlingen must be fully implemented during 2021. It is still too early to determine how the changes are to be implemented and the economic consequences associated with this.
i-3f439628ab885feb-80	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive and long answer! I am sure there are many more people who are curious: How does the Government intend to take on this task? Madam President, I would like One might wonder, not least in view of the rhetoric that the Government has had in this pulpit for four years and not least in view of the rhetoric that the Social Democrats had prior to the 2018 elections. I noted in another interpellation debate that I got a pass on the election results. Then I note that the Social Democrats made their worst election result since the introduction of the right to vote. Madam President, I would like There may have been those who believed in the Social Democrats in the 2018 elections. There may have been those who believed in the rhetoric of the Social Democrats. Moderates were accused of wanting to introduce market rents. Moderates were accused of wanting to remove the defense tax – the tax for the richest. We were accused of wanting to destroy the Employment Service. This is how we could proceed on a point-by-point basis. The Public Employment Service has had major problems. The Government has defended Arbetsförmedlingen. Now we note that there has been an agreement in the government base MP, S, L and C that the Public Employment Service should be fundamentally reformed and that a new system based on LOV should be introduced. Now that you have taken on that task, it would be interesting if the Government had some thoughts, some idea, about how it should be done. I don't know if the Swedish people got so much wiser from Ekot's Saturday interview, but I have listened to it with great interest, not least in the face of this interpellation debate. It would be appropriate for the Government now to use this opportunity to tell us what insight the government has gained when it says that it should in principle remove the State Employment Service and introduce a completely new system based on LOV. Then you might have to have some idea of how to do it. With what desire and enthusiasm is the Government burning to do about the Public Employment Service in its fundamental form, despite the fact that the State Employment Service has been defended throughout the previous term of office and longer than that?
i-3f439628ab885feb-87	Madam President, I would like Again, Lars Beckman has a very interesting question, and now I thought of using this that he has asked interesting questions to ask the Minister himself some things. Lars Beckman gets a little caught up in his great bitterness after the election and the formation of the government, but there are of course important questions to ask about Arbetsförmedlingen. I am very, very concerned about how the agreement that has been made between the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals will affect Swedish labour market policy in the future in general and the Employment Service in particular. I have heard Ylva Johansson say in different contexts that she should be the guarantor that there will be no chaotic progress. However, I see it as very difficult to avoid and would like to hear how the Minister actually thinks about this. We know that the privatisation experiments carried out by the bourgeois government during Reinfeldt were disastrous in many ways. Unserious companies flocked to several of the stakes. Those who worked at Arbetsförmedlingen found it difficult to maintain their professional integrity and be able to do a good job, which went very hard on the job seekers, who often received very poor treatment because the staff had unreasonably set goals. How can you avoid that it will be at least as bad when you are going to do a full scale experiment instead of the experiment that was carried out and that was largely unsuccessful? Another issue that arises in this context is that due to the budget that M, KD and SD got through, the Swedish Public Employment Service has received large and completely ill-considered savings, which means that they have now had 4 500 people given notice. I would have thought that with this agreement underfoot, the Minister could at least promise that funds would be provided to the Public Employment Service so that the transformation that has now been promised would at least be done in a reasonable manner for the staff. But these are not the signals that have come from Ylva Johansson. Instead, in an interview, she says that she cannot promise such a thing at all, but it may well be that the notice is converted into redundancies. What scenario do you see before you if Arbetsförmedlingen is going to undergo a historical rescheduling while having a very chaotic staff situation? How will it be good for the people who need the support of the Employment Service and for those who work at Arbetsförmedlingen? We certainly agree that it was irresponsible for the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats to get through such an ill-considered budget. But now the government has an opportunity to do something about it. The problem is that it is not quite clear that that will exists. The deal that has been made with the Centre Party and the Liberals seems to be an obstacle to doing something about it rather than supporting it. This worries me a lot.
i-3f439628ab885feb-95	Madam President, I would like It is excellent that Lars Beckman has understood the Social Democratic policy and what my party went to elections on. I believe that many voters also understood our policy, and that is a good thing. That is how it should be done in an electoral movement: parties report what policy they want to implement, and voters vote. However, Lars Beckman seems to be one of the few in Sweden who have not understood that the parliamentary situation after the election resulted in that neither any individual party nor any previous government constellation gained a majority in the Swedish parliament to form a government on previous government bases. I regret, of course, that my party did not reach more than 28%. But it is the voters who have elected the representatives of the Riksdag, and it is we politicians who have to deal with that situation and form a government despite the fact that there are no clear majorities for previous government constellations or individual parties. Lars Beckman's party wanted to form a government that demanded the active support of the Swedish Democrats in principle in every vote. I am very pleased that there was a majority in the Swedish Parliament who said no to that kind of government constellation. We are living in an important time, and I think it is extremely important to stand up for fundamental values of human rights, of freedom of culture, of freedom of the judiciary and of a fundamental view of man and of the equal value of people. We'll never alienate the other one. Now Lars Beckman probably thinks that these are big words, but for me this is very important. I and my party have been prepared to make quite large sacrifices in order to form a government on a different basis to keep the Swedish Democrats out of active influence over government power. When compromises are made with other parties, it goes without saying that other parties also get their policies through. That is the very idea of compromise with other parties. That is what must happen in a democracy. Anything else would be unreasonable. It is no secret that part of what is in the January agreement is what the Social Democrats went to elections on. Other parts are those on which other parties that are behind the agreement went to elections. It's a compromise. Of course it's that way, and that's how it has to be. I am proud that we are able to make such compromises, and I am quite sure that the Swedish people want politicians who are able to take responsibility also in situations where the parliamentary situation is very unclear. I think it has been obvious to everyone this autumn that it has been difficult to form a government, and that it actually costs the parties that are going to do so. On the substance of the matter: Yes, it is a very delicate task to make a major reform of the Employment Service, and it does not, of course, make it easier for the Riksdag, with the support of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, to have voted through a budget that in a very irresponsible way radically changes the conditions. It is a brutal reduction in resources for labour market policy. In the case of employees at the Employment Service, there is a huge need to reduce the workforce in order to achieve this saving in the current year. I think it is an irresponsible way of dealing with the important issues of labour market policy. It is also the case, I would say to Ali Esbati, that the budget decided on has also been decided on the revenue side, and it is fixed in this year. It is not possible to amend in an amending budget, for example, the part relating to income taxes. It limits the scope available, including in an amending budget. A government is always obliged to comply with the decisions made by the Riksdag, and the Riksdag has decided on a budget that has serious consequences. I will answer more to the question of how I see it possible to reform the Public Employment Service without repeating previous failures.
i-3f439628ab885feb-107	Madam President, I would like We'll take the Arbetsförmedlingen's budget first. With the adjustment now being made, the Swedish Public Employment Service's budget is down to the level it had in 2016. I think few would think it was a disaster then. The most interesting thing, of course, is what the Director-General says. The Director-General of the Employment Service, Mikael Sjöberg, does not see that any increase in appropriations in an amending budget or an increase in appropriations will change the Agency's plans. The number of notifications will still remain. "I would handle increased resources in a different way," he says. He also says that my assessment today, and it has therefore changed since the January agreement, is that we will not reinstate. If I may decide, we will instead deal with any increase in appropriations in the amending budget in a different way. ..................................................... Then we've worked it out. Then we don't have to debate it anymore. Nevertheless, I find it interesting that the Government avoids answering the question with which life and lust the Government is now taking on the task of reforming the Employment Service in essence. The whole political career of the Government has been based on saying that the height of evil is to change Arbetsförmedlingen. I don't know how many debate articles Raimo Pärssinen, the former Social Democratic MP from Gävleborg, has written about the height of evil when we Moderates have said that we need to get a match that works, that we need to change the Arbetsförmedlingen to help the unemployed get a job and that we need to change the Arbetsförmedlingen to help companies avoid paying double – both for the Arbetsförmedlingen via the tax bill and then, when they are going to recruit, to hire a private agency. You're curious about how this is going to happen. It accepts to sit in a government. It accepts to govern Sweden on the Alliance's budget. It accepts this mission, which goes against what has been promised to the electorate. What are your ideas and thoughts? These 40 - 50 investigations to be added, what are their input values? I believe, as the Government says, that it is an important issue of democracy that politicians behave honestly and that they make choices after what they say before. Tell me you don't. Say that I voted for the Social Democrats in the belief that the Employment Service would remain unchanged because it was the signals and promises that were given. What does it mean, Madam President, when you do exactly the opposite? What does it mean to believe in the democratic system? What does it mean to believe in institutions? What does it mean when someone votes for a policy but gets a completely different one? I think it can be more devastating for the view of democracy and belief in institutions than for the parliament to exert parliamentary influence through elected representatives. I think it is directly detrimental to democracy that you have made people vote for you and then changed politics 180 degrees. You're like a whirlwind. Then you say that you take responsibility and compromise. But you have compromised on what many journalists have been asking you about: your fundamental ideological questions, where you have been saying one thing for a hundred years. Then you want to remain in the government and switch to a policy that is the opposite. I believe that this is devastating for faith in democracy, institutions and all of us elected representatives. My question remains: with what life and desire and enthusiasm does the Government now intend to fundamentally reform the Employment Service and introduce the freedom of choice system, i.e. the LOV?
i-3f439628ab885feb-117	Madam President, I would like I reacted to Lars Beckman's claim that someone would have said that privatisation of the Employment Service would be the height of evil. I don't think anyone said that. It's just bad. If I'm going to think of more evil things, I might think, for example, that opening up to cooperation with a racist party that has roots in neo-Nazism is a little worse. But enough about that. Unlike Lars Beckman, I think it is the content of politics that is interesting. Lars Beckman is upset that it is not himself who is conducting this policy, but that it is someone else who is doing it, forced or not. I may think it is the content of politics that is interesting, and that is what I am concerned about. Ylva Johansson says that it was an irresponsible budget that went through thanks to M, KD and the Swedish Democrats. We fully agree on that. It is also true that the revenue side of the budget is locked in many ways. But it is not quite correct that the government's ambitions and what it is able to do with an amending budget are as locked as Ylva Johansson wants to give the impression of here. There is clearly quite a lot that can be done in an amending budget, and there are many of us who will follow it closely. What is being signalled and what is actually being addressed by an amending budget? Obviously, it is difficult to get an answer here if you want to do something on the part of the government to avoid the chaotic collapse of the Employment Service that could result from the budget that went through. That's what I'm still worried about.
i-3f439628ab885feb-121	Madam President, I would like There are many differences between me and Lars Beckman. One of them is that how to organise Arbetsförmedlingen is not a fundamental ideological issue for me. For me, fundamental ideology is about completely different things. It is about the view of man and human dignity. It's about not exasperating the other. It is about full respect for the freedom of culture and journalism, about opportunities for the judiciary to act fully without interference from politicians. It is about openness to other countries, about international cooperation, about dealing with others as their peers. These are important values for me, and that is why it is incredibly important for me that a party like the Swedish Democrats should not have influence over government power. This is a fundamental ideological question for me. The Public Employment Service is to be fundamentally reformed. One cannot have listened very carefully if one has not heard me say also before that Arbetsförmedlingen has great problems and a lot of shortcomings and needs major reforms. That's it. But that is, of course, a delicate task. Today, approximately 60% of Arbetsförmedlingen's work is carried out by private actors. With the reform that is now to take place, there will be a larger share. It is incredibly important and a delicate task to do this reform responsibly. We saw how it happened during the bourgeois period, when, for ideological reasons, a market control was unleashed with start-ups and job coaches. In my opinion, it was a total Moras. It attracted rogue actors who could take part in taxpayers' money, and individuals got caught up in it. I am determined to ensure that such a thing does not happen again. That is why, among other things, I do not have the answers to all the questions today. I think that we should think rather carefully about how to implement a fundamental reform in order to avoid it leading to effects that we do not want. One of the things I think you should think carefully about is what Ali Esbati called experiments. I think you should avoid experiments. I think you should think rather carefully before doing anything to avoid experiments, because if you do them on a large scale you risk leading to unwanted consequences. Of course, you can think of experiments and other things that are evaluated. That's one way to do it. However, careful consideration should be given to how to make major changes to ensure them. Of course, I will later be able to present to the Riksdag and to Lars Beckman how the reform should be done. But before that we will think it through carefully, and the four parties that are behind the January agreement will all be involved in that work before we present how it should be done.
i-3f439628ab885feb-129	Madam President, I would like After all, the Parliament has signalled to the government that the match must be improved in three announcements, so there is a broad consensus among the parties in the Riksdag that changes must be made. But anyone who takes a job or a mission or who, like the Social Democrats in this case, says he wants to pursue a policy that has previously been said not to be behind– for curious, it's just reading old chamber records – must have an idea of how it intends to do. What are you gonna do? In the agreement, it is very clear that you are going to reform the Public Employment Service in essence and that LOV, that is, freedom of choice, should be introduced– I suppose it is about freedom of choice for job seekers. Now I think that the Government should use its last speech to answer these simple questions: With what life and lust does the Government intend to take on this task, and what basic idea is there for how this is to be done? I heard something about a system where, for example, compensation would be paid after a year. The programme leader in Swedish Radio said very correctly that it is very large players with very large cashiers who would be able to handle it. It could be a way. It may also be that another governing party has thought of a different solution. But it would be interesting to know about what direction you have in mind. Is it thought that it will be a lot of small companies around the country that can help job seekers to get a job? Or has it been envisaged that a large company with billions of dollars in the cash register, which can afford compensation after a year? Approximately what direction does the Government intend for this fundamental and fundamental change in the Public Employment Service?
i-3f439628ab885feb-135	Madam President, I would like I think I have already answered the question. I will return to Parliament when we have worked out proposals on how the reform should take place. These proposals will be drawn up jointly by the four parties supporting the January Agreement. Let me say, however, that I believe that one should learn a little from the mistakes of others and from the successes of others. A great mistake was made during the bourgeois period with the establishment pilots and the job coaches. But they had over 1,000 suppliers, and they were paid only to take on one person. The remuneration was not based on results at all. This attracted rogue players who wanted to spend their money on taxpayers. I visited Australia some time ago and looked at their systems. They have a very strict performance-based system, which is based on getting paid when a person has had a job for a long time. Of course, it also has its shortcomings, but at least it is a system which, in my view, works much better than the system that existed with the start-ups and job coaches. That is rather the direction at stake, but I think we should look at other systems and other countries as well. Conclusions should be drawn both from things that work and from things that do not work. It has worked both in our country and in other countries.
i-3f439628ab885feb-139	Madam President, I would like Pia Steensland has asked me what measures have been taken to ensure urgently that breathing and gavage are considered to be fundamental needs. I would like to begin by stressing that I understand the stressful situation that arises for relatives, parents and siblings when children are born with major disabilities and have great needs that need to be met. The situation is, of course, the same for people of adult age who have large and permanent disabilities. I would like to make it clear that the LSS and assistance reform have significantly improved living conditions and increased self-determination for girls, boys, women and men with extensive disabilities. However, more than 20 years have passed since the law came into force, and developments in this area have in many cases been difficult to predict. It is the government's responsibility to follow up what development means before action is taken. That is why the government gave a number of assignments to the Social Security Inspection, the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency in order to get a better picture of the consequences of legal developments for the beneficiaries of assistance. On the basis of this evidence and pending the LSS investigation's proposal, the government took action by stopping the two-year assistance reimbursement trials with the aim of protecting the beneficiaries of assistance from any future changes in practice in this area. The LSS investigation, which was commissioned to conduct a review of the efforts under LSS and the assistance compensation, is now submitted to the government. In the report, attention has been paid to the issue of child care in many cases, where help is needed all day long. The reports from Försäkringskassan and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare also show that the changed application of LSS law has had consequences for those who need help with breathing and probe feeding. I agree with Pia Steensland that the situation that has arisen, where children and adults do not get help with breathing and feeding with the support of provisions in the LSS, needs to be addressed. Through the assignments given to Försäkringskassan, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the LSS investigation in order to follow, among other things, the practice development, the Government has received information that deepened knowledge in the field. In accordance with the January Agreement, the right to self-care assistance, including breathing and gavage, shall be restored. I therefore stand by what I said earlier that the government will urgently begin the work that Parliament has commissioned us to do. That work is now under way.
i-3f439628ab885feb-146	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for its answer, but at the same time the answer makes me genuinely concerned. Thanks to the joint budget reservation of the Christian Democrats and Moderates received support in the Riksdag in December, a call was made to the government to urgently produce a bill that ensures that breathing and probe feeding are considered to be fundamental needs. I lack clear information in the Government's response as to whether she will implement Parliament's decisions. Today, many people with extensive disabilities live, and their relatives are under constant pressure. They fight almost daily against authorities to get the support they are entitled to. Anxiety and anxiety are the first feelings they feel when they wake up in the morning, and the same feelings are the last they feel before they fall asleep in the evening. Parents make complaints against themselves to social services because they fear that their children are no longer safe in their hands. They are afraid of what could happen if they lost sight of fatigue for a short time. Families are being torn apart. The right to assistance allowance is undermined day by day. This is contrary to the intention of the LSS and the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which Sweden has signed. The legal right to live as others disappears and is replaced by a fight against authorities. This is unworthy of a welfare country like Sweden. Every day that goes without change is a lost day. I am therefore grateful that this House and the KD-M budget have decided that we must get a new law in place as quickly as possible. Madam President, I would like I understand that the Government, just as I do, understands how difficult the situation is for many people with disabilities and for their relatives. We have both met people affected and read the reports of the authorities, which describe the inhuman consequences of current case law. In fact, my best Christmas present came from the Government on December 21st last year. It was about the government statement in the media after the Riksdag's decision to support the joint budget reservation of the Christian Democrats and Moderates. I quote the Prime Minister:- There is a great consensus among the parties in the Riksdag about breathing and feeding. Now there is a decision which is good. This means that we, as a transitional government, can start work, which we will now do quickly. ..................................................... But today's response from the Government makes me uncertain how much that statement was worth. It has now been 42 days since the Riksdag commissioned the Government to urgently ensure the obvious – that breathing and probe feeding are basic needs. My questions to the Government are therefore as follows: Why does the Government not mention the decision of the Riksdag in its answer to my interpellation? Does the Government mean that Parliament's decisions do not affect what the government does? And if the Government intends to implement the Riksdag's decision as a matter of urgency, I also wonder when the Government considers that a change of law may be in place.
i-3f439628ab885feb-155	Madam President, I would like I would really like to emphasise that there is a great deal of consensus, and there has not been consensus recently, but it has been there for a long time. The issue has been very difficult to deal with. Since Pia Steensland and I have not been on the Social Affairs Committee together, I just want to tell you that even when I was on the Social Affairs Committee and it was Pia Steensland's party friends who sat at the Ministry of Social Affairs we felt that there was a lack of clarity. Case law changed people's everyday lives in the sense that the Social Insurance Agency naturally took the impression of changing case law. We've had to make changes. And I thank you for having the submitted LSS investigation as a starting point. But it is clear that we need to move forward faster when it comes to breathing and gavage, as I have said. I do not think that too much of the consensus that exists in this House should be attributed to the M-KD budget reservation that went through. On the contrary, there has been consistency for a long time. Throughout the electoral movement, I participated in debates on the LSS issue and assistance, and so did representatives of other parties. Pia Steensland asks why it takes so long, why nothing happens. Then I would like to say that it is exactly 14 days since this House voted for a Prime Minister, and it is 11 days since I was given the post of Minister for Social Affairs myself. I can guarantee you we won't waste any time. The work is under way to produce proposals that will enable us to deal with the issue of breathing and gavage, because I feel that the Social Democrats and other parties have a common understanding that the issue is very urgent. It is also made clear in the January agreement between S, C, L and MP that we want to deal with the issue of breathing and probing, but also self-care alongside parental responsibility and headship. Just what we have agreed will be delivered. My assessment is also that the issue of breathing and probe feeding will be dealt with much more quickly and significantly faster than many of the other parts. Pia Steensland says nothing happened. At that time, I would like to stress that the government presented proposals during the spring to stop the two-year trials and to include waiting time and preparedness in the basic needs, which resulted in positive changes and facilitated, above all, families with children with great needs. Both Pia Steensland's interpellation and the tone of the interpellation response are important. We will continue to have a good tone and work together. We will ensure that we get the very best solutions, because this is complicated. Now the interpellation is about breathing and probe feeding. However, I would like to say to all those concerned who are listening to this debate that there is a challenge in the LSS issue as a whole and in terms of personal assistance to ensure that both children and adults feel the security that they have the right to feel in the event of large and extensive disabilities. This also applies to all other operations under the LSS. I want everyone to feel confident that we see the whole and that it is on the basis of it that we take this on board.
i-3f439628ab885feb-164	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I agree with the Government that there has been a broad consensus. In the election movement, all parties were very much in agreement. The Christian Democrats' assessment is that the transitional government could have acted on the basis of political consensus. That is why we took a committee initiative in the Committee on Social Affairs, in which all parties agreed that we must do something to make breathing and gavage count as basic needs. I agree that there was a consensus and would therefore have liked the transitional government to have acted. It was a political uncontroversial issue, because there was a consensus. Thank you for your answer. And I agree that there should be no prestige in this matter. It is such an incredibly important and vital issue, so we are really going to do everything we can to cooperate. At the same time, I wish you could be a little more specific. The situation is urgent. The lives of individuals and families are being torn apart. The assistance allowance is vital, not least when it comes to breathing and gavage. I'd like to know if you have any assessment of when the new change of law regarding breathing and probe feeding may be in place. Many people are waiting, and they have already waited far too long. Madam President, I would like Today we have a situation in which the Supreme Administrative Court has established that probe feeding should actually count as a basic need. When that judgment fell last year, many people breathed out and thought that now they would finally get help. But Försäkringskassan then chose to interpret the judgment so that it was only the time it takes to connect on and off the probe that would count as basic needs and not the time when the industry was brought in, that is, the actual feeding. My question to the Government is therefore whether, in the process of drafting a new legislative proposal, she ensures that the entire time it takes to carry out the probe feeding operation as well as for breathing will be considered a basic need, so that there will be no room for interpretation for the authority to make a different assessment. Madam President, I would like I have another question for the Government, and it concerns the budget. It is difficult to estimate the increase in costs when more people will again be covered by the right to assistance compensation. In the joint budget reservation of the Christian Democrats and Moderates, an estimate of SEK 700 million a year was made and SEK 350 million for the six months. We assessed that a team could be in place after six months. But, and it is important, that there was also an agreement in the budget reservation between the Christian Democrats and the Moderates that more money would be added to the grant should it turn out that it is necessary to ensure that those who need help with breathing and feeding should actually get it. I would therefore like to ask the Government whether the S-MP Government is also prepared to add more money in 2019 and coming years, should it be necessary to ensure that all those who will be subject to the amendment receive the help they need.
i-3f439628ab885feb-175	Madam President, I would like I'll try to take Pia Steensland's questions in turn and hope I don't forget anyone. If you first dismiss a government and then have a transitional government, you cannot expect action. It is a complicated situation that we have not experienced before. But the question does not become uncontroversial because the parties agree, but it is that it is a government that is deposed and that simply should not act and take new initiatives, but things should roll on. That is not desirable, and I very much hope that we do not end up in that situation too often and that, when you dismiss a government, you may also have an idea of how to form a new one. Of course, that would make it easier. Now we're there that we have a government. We will take action. Breathing and probing is an issue that we will be dealing with urgently. I cannot give a date, but I say that the issue should be dealt with urgently. The issue of personal assistance and all questions surrounding it are complex and interrelated. It is important that they do so, that we see the whole picture. But the assessment is that we will be able to deal with the question of breathing and probe feeding specifically. We'll get back to you. Pia Steensland asks what exactly the proposal will look like. I can't answer exactly what it's going to look like. But we will return, and we will not take a bit longer than we need. Pia Steensland asks what the cost situation is when it comes to breathing and probe feeding. It is also a question of the whole of LSS legislation as to what the cost distribution between the municipality and the state should be. But I would really like to emphasise that it is a law of rights. No one will know in September that the money is over and that you do not intend to comply with the law, but the law must be respected. The problem is, and has been, that there has been a new interpretation of the law that has given a case law that has given people decisions that we will discuss whether they are reasonable or not. If we as politicians do not think that they are reasonable, we must change the legislation. That is precisely the solid work that we are now going to do with the comprehensive LSS legislation. We have been clear that if there is an increase in costs, it is something that we must take. But we cannot start with the question of costs. We need to know how the legislation is to work and what it is we are to achieve. If I may think aloud in the Parliament's pulpit, I think that it sounds very easy to change back in case law, but Pia Steensland and the other members of the Social Affairs Committee have also grappled with the issue. Changing back in case law is quite complicated when society changes, when people's needs change and new groups are added. There are, of course, reasons why the number of hours and the number of users since the introduction of the LSS legislation has increased. It depends on what both the groups and the needs look like. It also depends on the consensus within a large authority that applications should be treated more equally. There are so many parameters in this. As I mentioned in my reply, this is the reason why we have commissioned various investigations and documentation. We must feel that we really know what we are dealing with, what we need to decide on and what our possible proposals will lead to. We are currently looking at the investigation that was recently submitted to the transitional government to see how to deal with it. We need a solid basis, and we've got it. Then we'll see how to deal with it all together.
i-3f439628ab885feb-185	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government. It is true that it is a big and difficult issue that we must try to deal with in the best possible way. It is important that we in politics are so careful in our political decisions that there is no deterioration. However, clear directives from the previous S- and MP-government led to cuts in personal assistance. When you notice that vulnerable people are affected by these decisions and the reports of the authorities show that it is a consequence of the existing case law as a result of political decisions, I think that the government urgently needs to put it right. I very much appreciate the Minister's view that we must have a broad consensus and long-term vision in the future work, and I look forward to talks on this and hope that it will be good. Breathing and probing are a part, but there are many other parts. This is primarily about the fifth basic need. Here people with intellectual disabilities and mental disabilities are severely affected by existing case law. The Christian Democrats would like to see a parliamentary agreement in order to get the important long-term perspective forward. After the committee initiative that the Christian Democrats took on the Social Committee before Christmas, a working group was formed with representatives of all parties, precisely to have the opportunity to discuss long-term and to have a common understanding. We believe that the four parties that have concluded the agreement on 73 points must not cooperate with the other parties on issues highlighted in these 73 paragraphs, of which the LSS and personal assistance are one. I would therefore like to hear how the Minister views the future and whether she will seek and wish to cooperate with the other parties in the Riksdag as well.
i-3f439628ab885feb-194	Madam President, I would like We will look forward and address LSS, personal assistance and disability issues in a broad sense. As Minister of Social Affairs, I see it as one of my important tasks. It is not possible for the government to say in a regulatory letter that it will be in breach of existing legislation. Now we face the challenge of getting the law so clear that it delivers what we think it should deliver. I realize it's a big challenge, but we're going to take it on in the best possible way. Precisely how all the collaborations are going to take place, I do not think I should talk about in an interpellation debate as Minister of Social Affairs. It is, however, that we in S, C, L and MP have decided that this is an important issue and that we should do in a certain way and have a certain objective in our joint work. However, this does not prevent us from agreeing that we want broader cooperation on the issues. We are not going to build walls, but no one behind the January agreement is going to take their own initiative and find other constellations. I appreciate the cooperation that exists in the Committee on Social Affairs; it is a wise way of working. If the Department of Social Affairs and I can help you, of course we will. I look forward to further dialogue on this issue.
