i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-6	Madam President, I would like The housing market in Sweden is not working well. We have a housing crisis in the country. Young people in search of their first home have little chance of success. The labour market is limited by the lack of housing. Companies opt out of Sweden because their employees have no place to live. And so there is the government – a government that seems totally incapable of presenting a single solution to the current housing crisis. Madam President, I would like Today's report, Action Against Trade in Rental Contracts, is a way of trying to patch a broken leg. Of course, it is reprehensible to exploit the housing crisis that exists at the expense of property owners and desperate people who are looking for shelter over their heads. We Moderates think it is important to have a well-functioning rental market and of course welcome a clear regulatory framework with tough measures against those who exploit desperate people – often young, often vulnerable. However, Madam President, we are opposed to the government's proposal to introduce a new group of criminals in Sweden: the young, the desperate and the vulnerable people who, because of the government's non-existent housing policy, feel obliged to buy a rental contract in order to get a roof over their heads at all. I am therefore in favour of reservation 1 in today's report and, of course, I am also in favour of reservation 3. We Moderates believe that the proposed civil law measures are sufficient. It is a suggestion that clearly states that if you rent out or rent in the second place without the property owner's approval or take out overrenting, you lose your right to the dwelling. We certainly do not think it is justifiable to make people criminal because the government lacks the ability to bring about a functioning housing policy. Criminalisation does not solve the problems, but only risks affecting already vulnerable people. Madam President, I would like Why are we having this debate today? The question has two answers: the housing crisis and the red-green government. Minister of Housing Per Bolund has previously stated that he does not want to describe the situation as a crisis. There's housing, he claims. Had Minister of Housing Per Bolund been right, we would probably not have had today's debate. A functioning housing market where supply and demand meet does not create a breeding ground for a black market where vulnerable people are exploited and property owners lose control of their property. It is today's dysfunctional housing situation that creates the conditions for exploitation. This is the problem that the Red-Green Government should concentrate on solving. The pursuit of already vulnerable people is not housing policy. The red-green government is now in its second term of office, and there are still no proposals on how to resolve the housing crisis, no proposals that give the people that the government now wants to criminalise a real opportunity to enter the housing market. Minister for Housing Per Bolund wishes a wand. Madam President, I wish to see a strong government. Both of these requests are totally unrealistic. This doesn't hold. This is not how you can control Sweden.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-17	Madam President, I would like It is clear that Swedish housing policy has failed fundamentally, both during periods of the reign of the Social Democrats and during the reign of bourgeois parties of Sweden. The rental market crisis is a fact, and in its wake more and more rental apartments have been subject to various forms of dubious transfers. The proposals put forward today will address the problem of the sale of rental contracts. The problem is much that of organised crime, which is geared to the failure of housing policy. That is why it is right to move more firmly towards the criminal groups, but also towards other persons involved in this form of transfer. It is also right because trade makes the rental market function worse in Sweden today. To hope that the black trade can be solved by quietly looking at is not a realistic proposal. This is not something that has been going on only during the period of the housing crisis, but it has also been going on during previous periods in Sweden. It is not a new phenomenon. On the other hand, it is a phenomenon that continues to operate, and then policy must act. The Swedish Democrats therefore support the proposals that have been put forward to combat the black trade. I note that the parties to the rental market – the Tenants' Association, Sabo and the Property Owners – support parts of the proposals put forward, which is safe in this context when we talk about measures in this important area. Tackling the black trade also means countering organised crime and the money brought into these groupings, which also has synergies in many other areas in Sweden. It is therefore important to take action in this area in order to overcome the problem. There are many areas of society today that are affected by this trade, and it is important that we come up with measures from a political point of view, such as those we see at Parliament's table today. Like the government, we believe that proposals for stricter penalties for illegal trade in rental contracts are needed. According to the bill, the maximum sentence for serious crime is four years in prison. Since it is often the serious criminal sector that works with this type of activity and because it affects society to a large extent, we believe that the scale of penalties should instead be harmonised with that of serious fraud and serious tax offences and that the maximum penalty should be six years of imprisonment instead of four, as in the Government's proposal. We believe that it is a good harmonisation based on other crime in society today. With regard to the exchange rules, we believe that there should be an exception to the one-year rule on the right to change, because it would mean a great rigidity in the rental market, especially since many of the current employment contracts are based on the six-month employment rule. Therefore, we do not believe that a particular reason or event should be required if you need to change your residence after less than a year. It is quite normal in a labour market today that after six months you get a job in another place or maybe start up a business and therefore need to change your place of residence. It is therefore important to include such an exception from the proposal put forward by the government. Furthermore, it is believed that there is a need for a clear boundary between the live-in and second-hand lease, in order to ensure that the person who has an apartment actually uses it, for example if this person has two apartments. The Government believes that the first-hand tenant must use the apartment as a residence to a significant extent so that a lease of the apartment or part of it does not constitute a second-hand permit. It is defined as two to three days per week or 80 to 100 days per year. We support the Government's proposal with changes to the requirements for the use of apartments. However, we believe that this must be a much more generous assessment in this situation, because we do not want in any way to oppose the people who use the apartments to a different extent from what the government proposes in the bill. Instead, we believe that a person should be judged whether he or she has a recurring need for an apartment, where he or she is to some extent involved in studies, work, business activities or the like. Madam President, I would like With these words, I only call for the winning approval of time to reservation 5.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-29	Madam President, I would like As we have said here many times, the right to housing is a fundamental human right enshrined in the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Society has an explicit responsibility for housing security in accordance with the Swedish Constitution. We know it's a little different in real life. More and more people are being denied the right to a home of their own, despite the clear wording in the form of government. We have a national housing crisis in Sweden today. Now the government wants to punish those very people whose constitutional rights have been neglected by the same government. You might think it's arrogant or out of reality. Instead of securing the right to housing by pursuing a social housing policy in which the state and the municipalities take far greater responsibility, this government chooses to place all responsibility for its failure on vulnerable homeless and homeless families with children by criminalising these families because in a desperate situation they chose to pay a special compensation to get a home for their children and for themselves. That can't be reasonable. Madam President, I would like There is a lack of housing in the majority of the country's municipalities, especially in the metropolitan regions. We witness every day how homelessness increases and how low-income earners, young people, families with children, pensions are yours and new arrivals are affected by the housing situation. We see how the housing shortage limits people's ability to take a job, study and be established in Swedish society. We see how it affects the freedom of the individual, the growth of the economy and the development of society. We also see how it leads to inequality, increased divides and segregation. Madam President, I would like Ocker rents and unauthorised subletting are two growing problems in Sweden's housing shortage. In this context, I would like to point out that secondary tenants in the owned housing stock find themselves in a situation at least as vulnerable, if not worse, as secondary tenants in the rental market. For example, the introduction of the Private Rental Act has led to significantly increased secondary rents in, for example, residential apartments. According to Boverket, second-hand renting of a right-of-occupancy apartment is 138 per cent more expensive than the corresponding rent for a first-hand contract. The high second-hand rents hit hard on those who are forced to sublet a right-of-occupancy apartment to have a place to live – mainly younger single-family households with lower incomes. The winners are the tenant-owners who already benefit from interest and ROT deductions. It is not possible to turn a blind eye to the negative development that has taken place since the introduction of the Private Rentals Act, which resulted in significantly increased secondary rents – rental levels that cannot be described as other than usury rents. I therefore believe that the Private Rentals Act should be reviewed in order to increase the security of secondary tenants. This should be supported by Parliament. Madam President, I would like The Government proposes that it should be punishable to pay a special allowance for renting a dwelling or for acquiring the right to rent such an apartment. The Government considers that the buyer of a rental contract acts as reprehensible as the seller and therefore there are no valid reasons for treating the buyer and the seller on the same basis as regards criminal liability. We do not share the government's view. Although the purchase of rental contracts is reprehensible, it must be taken into account that the buyer is often in a vulnerable situation. Criminalisation of something that has previously been criminal requires very strong reasons, and, like the Law Council, we believe that there are insufficient grounds for criminalising the buyer's actions. We believe that this is very serious. We as politicians are responsible for ensuring that people have a place to live; it is in the law. We're failing it. Rather, the government fails to do so. Instead of taking responsibility and having a good social housing policy, which ensures that people's legal rights are respected, the government chooses to say: No, we have failed, and we will punish you even more for our failure. That can't be reasonable. That is unacceptable. If there are some that we are going to criminalise, it should be precisely the politicians responsible, because it is the politicians responsible who are actually not doing what the law says they are going to do. But we do not see such proposals here, but we are going to criminalise families with children who have no place to live. In my municipality there are several homeless families with children. Parents wake up in the morning and do not know if they will have a place to sleep at night. Those of you who are responsible politicians – the government – are going to punish those very parents. That can't be reasonable. Parents want a home where their children can sleep at night. That is why we reject this proposal. It is not a proposal that I and the Left Party believe the Swedish people deserve. The homeless families with children, students and low income earners should not be treated in this way. Against this background, I believe that Parliament should reject the government's proposal to criminalise the purchase of rental contracts. I support all the reservations expressed by the Left Party, but I only ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-42	Madam President, I would like The proposals we are debating today include measures against the trading of rental contracts and other abuses of rental rights that the government wants to take with a view to a better functioning rental market. Unfortunately, there is not much in this bill on which we in the Christian Democrats agree with the government. In the report we have three different motions in three different reservations. The first reservation concerns criminalisation in the purchase of rental contracts, where we have a claim together with the Moderates and the Left Party. Our view is that we should not criminalise those who are in a vulnerable situation and sometimes resort to drastic measures. We should solve the root of the problem instead of criminalising people. The second reservation concerns confiscation of rental rights in the event of the withdrawal of too high a secondary rent. The proposal is far-reaching and cannot be considered proportionate to the person's actions. The last reservation concerns the future form of legislation, where we have a reservation that it must be evaluated and, in future, reviewed in order to be effective. The housing market situation is problematic in many respects. We build far too little, and in many cases we build the wrong type of housing. Many of those who want to buy their own home cannot do so because of the credit restrictions, which prevent them from borrowing for the purchase. The mortgage ceiling means that people are all too often forced to take expensive short-term loans instead of more secure housing loans. We have people who live in too large a dwelling because economic aspects put a stop to a move. The rental market is not mobile enough for our young people to be able to find an apartment as their first home. Since the introduction of the utility value system with price-regulated rentals, rental housing has become increasingly scarce. Like most price regulations, it has meant long queues and severe difficulties for households to get a home. An equally expected disadvantage of this has been the emergence of black contracts, their sale and subletting, with rents more in parity with the market price that should actually apply. The solution should be to find a system that makes it more profitable for real estate companies to own and operate rental properties – not to resort to drastic measures such as confiscation of rental rights. According to liberals, center parties, environmentalists and social democrats, a person who has no place to live and sees no other way out than to find a place to live. That person is to be criminalised, even though the fundamental error is that society has not been able to deliver what it is to deliver: enough housing and a rental market that works. Instead of solving the problems of the rental market, the Center Party, the Liberals, the Green Party and the Social Democrats believe that the solution is to criminalise those who ultimately stand with Svarte Petter on hand and are without housing. These parties believe that this person should be criminalised, thereby taking the consequences of the political shortcomings for which we are all responsible. It is a measure that I think is out of proportion to what this person has actually done. The bill shows that the government has not been able to identify the extent of this trade and what the reasons for a contract purchase are. As a basis for decision, this is vague, which, in my view, should call for great caution. Buying a black deal is certainly reprehensible, but that it should be considered criminal is to miss the bigger picture. A common situation is that a household is without a home and that a person is looking for a rental contract for himself and his family. Instead of a regular contract, the person is offered to buy a contract for a sum of money. The household has no alternatives and feels voluntarily obliged to pay for the contract. This household should be considered criminal, according to the Liberals, the Center Party, the Environmental Party and the Social Democrats in this House – while the lack of housing policy and the introduction of price regulation have been involved in creating the situation for the household. The Christian Democrats believe that the purchase of black contracts is reprehensible but should not be criminalised. Criminalisation of something that has previously been criminal requires very strong reasons, and, like the Law Council, we believe that there are insufficient grounds for criminalising the buyer's actions. We also believe that it is questionable whether the proposed criminalisation is an effective means of combating the trade in rental rights. In our opinion, there is reason to wait for the outcome and look at other measures. The document that should be criminalised is the sale of black contracts, which is done by the tenant who is in possession of a dwelling. There the government and the Christian Democrats agree. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-55	Madam President, I would like In Sweden there is a housing shortage, and it turns out to be hitting different groups in different parts of the country. The lack of housing affects young people, new arrivals, people in socially vulnerable positions, recently separated – well, anyone who cannot afford an expensive cash contribution to a far too expensive right-of-occupancy apartment. This also applies to people in areas where rents cannot be accessed without having been in the housing queue for many years. We need to build more, and we need to make better use of the existing stock. At the same time, we can see that there is illegal trade in the contracts for those rentals which are still available. In order to improve the functioning of the rental housing market, the government is proposing in the proposal that is the subject of this debate and that has been dealt with in the report 'Action against trade in rental contracts', the CU17, measures that will lead to a greater turnover of first-hand contracts, better rental conditions and, in fact, a healthier housing environment. In order to make it more difficult to transfer rental contracts for special remuneration, certain restrictions on the right of exchange are proposed, including that the tenant must have lived in his or her apartment for at least one year before a change can take place. Any person who has purchased a rental contract from another tenant or attempted to sell a contract shall be able to lose the rental right with immediate effect. The penalties for the sale and brokering of rental contracts against unlawful remuneration shall be increased. In the case of lease of part of an apartment to an inn, only a proportional share of the first-hand rent may be charged. If too high a rent is charged, the tenant should also be able to lose his contract. It should also be criminal to sublet an apartment without permission and for a rent that is not reasonable. The Government's proposal for measures against the black trade in rental contracts and the abuse of rental rights is based on an agreement with the Center Party and the Liberals. Madam President, I would like At a time like this, with such a large housing shortage, we cannot at the same time allow a market to trade in black contracts – regardless of whether the market is exploited by those who can afford to pay or use those who have no other choice.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-61	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the proposal as a whole. I think this is a very interesting discussion. Somewhere, the starting point must be the rental market, that is, a market where people rent their accommodation. When you start buying contracts in a market that is designed for rental contracts, you put the market function out of play. It is also the case that the owner of the stake in this market is the property owners – the landlords. They are the ones who have invested capital in an asset that they then rent out. If we're playing with the idea that you'd get paid for these contracts and look at who owns the right to charge, we'll see that it's not the tenant. Instead, it must be the owner of the property, that is, the property owner, who has the right to charge a price for the rental right. Otherwise, de facto, someone else's ownership is being misplaced. Ownership must be an important starting point, at least for the right side of this House. Therefore, I am a little surprised when the argument is that it is reprehensible to buy these contracts – not criminal, but reprehensible. The argument from the right side should rather be that it is okay to buy a contract but that in that case it is the property owner who will be responsible for the sale. A market will then be created for the asset in which you have invested your capital. You might think so, but I don't buy it. You might think so, but I do not share that view. In the rental market you should rent things. When you start buying contracts, problems are created at two ends. One is, of course, that vulnerable people are being exploited by serious criminals, which is terrible. To argue then that these people should be in the clutches of the gross criminals, for that is actually what they are becoming, I find it difficult to understand. I also object to the fact that it would be by far the most vulnerable to buy the contracts. If you are one of the most vulnerable in our society, you usually live, even if there are exceptions, in the housing social programme. So it is not the most vulnerable who buy any rental contracts, but it is the group that is not quite as vulnerable. Then there is another side of this, and it is women in leading positions who buy rental contracts at Östermalm for millions of SEK. And it's here somewhere I'm beginning to understand why the Moderates and Christian Democrats are against this. Now it's all of a sudden their friends are getting into trouble. Damn it! We can't buy our contracts at Östermalm! It's class politics! You can have that as an entry point into it. I don't have it. I think this in many ways is a good product. We are creating protection for the market that actually exists, and we are getting better order in the secondary leasing market, which is good. There is also another interesting aspect. What other queues in this country should it be allowed to buy your way through? Health care queues in the public sector? Is it possible to buy work contracts? Temporary residence permits? The party leader of the Moderates stood in this Chamber yesterday talking about what is happening in socialist countries. I assume he meant former Eastern and Communist states. If it is something that defines that type of society, but also reactionary societies, it is buying access to various services. Those who have the opportunity to buy themselves past the queues that may exist do so. Then we can start creating files somewhere, maybe on Ica. If I'm willing to pay 50 bucks more, I'm gonna walk past that line. It is in itself free business, but we can take the public health centre: If you are prepared to pay 300 bucks, you must go ahead of all those in the queue who do not have that opportunity or will. When you start paying to buy yourself past queues, you undermine the system. I cannot accept such a system because I believe – just as the Left Party expresses – that housing is a social right. You shouldn't be able to buy yourself past queues. If you have that money, you can go in and own your own accommodation. With these words, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-75	Madam President, I would like It must indeed be a desperate situation when the Social Democrats argue in favour of property rights. That's not what you expect. Ola Möller mentions that it is not the most vulnerable who buy contracts, but the rich who can afford them. I can say this: I have worked in the education sector, at a university, for nine years. There I met many students. A student came with his wife who was eight months pregnant. They had nowhere to live. They slept in the university premises and at the central station in the middle of winter. They talked to social services, and social services said they didn't have any apartments. They went to the MKB to find an apartment, but there were no apartments. They got in line, but it would take years. The wife was eight months pregnant. They were not high wage earners but low wage earners. Ola Möller says that if this person has the opportunity to pay to get a place to live with his wife, it should be criminalized. So by doing so, this person commits a crime. But should the person instead be homeless, outdoors, with his wife who is eight months pregnant? It doesn't make sense! Why should we criminalise people who have become homeless because of the policies that you have failed to do? Why can't the government and the Social Democrats pursue a policy that ensures that every person who needs a place to live will have a place to live according to the law?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-81	Madam President, I would like I understand that Malcolm Jallow has trouble understanding that a social democrat is arguing for property rights. But social democracy is in favour of a market economy, and that means that ownership has a central function. We have not said that we should introduce the planned economy, because it will be something completely different. In a market economy, one must have ownership rights. The scope and breadth of ownership can then be discussed, but for the functioning of our economy ownership is fundamental. If you do not understand this, you have problems understanding how a market economy works, and then we can start to think about whether you are at all behind such a solution. With regard to the cases mentioned by Momodou Jallow, there are absolutely vulnerable people in tough situations. I have lived next door to many people who have lived in residential social apartments. They haven't had any money to buy contracts. This is why, among other things, they have lived with housing social contracts. Their kids have been playing with my son. As Momodou Malcolm Jallow, to draw a lot of stories and claim that he, just because he's worked somewhere, has the best insight into this doesn't hold. The most vulnerable people are forced to live in the housing social program or in hotels, hostels or similar paid by the municipality. Unfortunately, there are plenty of families who are forced to do so, perhaps especially in the hometown of Momodou Malcolm Jallow. In my hometown there are also a large number who do. But that a pregnant woman would be put on the street... show me the municipality that did it! Show that municipality!
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-86	Madam President, I would like It is important to have an anchor in reality. What I'm saying is facts. This is a reality for many people and for many families with children in my municipality. It's a reality for many students. I know that, because I have personally arranged accommodation for homeless students in Malmö. I know this because I've been working on this for nine years. It's not something I'm making up. That's the truth. That's the reality. The story of the pregnant woman is real. Ola Möller can check in Sydsvenskan, where it was reported. That was even what led this particular university to work on trying to find housing for students. This is reality, even if Ola Möller doesn't believe it. Even if one chooses to turn a blind eye to the reality of these very vulnerable people, the problem will not go away. However, the most serious thing in this story is that instead of working together to help this woman and her husband and families with children in Malmö to get somewhere to live that they can afford when they need it, Ola Möller says to say no, we will criminalize them, because what they do should be criminal. How can it be criminal when it is we as responsible politicians who do not respect and comply with the law, the law that is made in the same House and that we have said we should comply with? We do not comply with this law, because if we had followed the law, these families with children in Malmö would not have been homeless. The housing shortage that exists throughout Sweden would not exist. It is politicians who have failed. Why do we not criminalise responsible politicians and say that they do not comply with the law and must therefore be punished? Why should we punish the very people who are the victims of the lack of good politics?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-92	Madam President, I would like First of all, I think it is extremely dangerous when we have politicians in this House who are saying that we should criminalise each other. Our constitution assumes that we will be able to express our views in here. Now we're going to criminalize it. The countries where you start threatening to send people to prison are the same countries where you buy yourself past the queues. What more lines do you want to buy your way by, Momodou Malcolm Jallow? That's what you're standing here arguing for. You argue for the right of the company manager at Östermalm to buy his apartment; that's what you do. Besides, you're showing an article that says about a pregnant woman who doesn't have a roof over her head. Being homeless doesn't mean you're on the street. You throw yourself with words in a way here that devalues their meaning, Malcolm Jallow, and that's a problem. There are a lot of politicians who would be criminalized if you followed your line, because it is the municipalities that have housing responsibility. It is not the government that should ensure that it is solved in everyday life, but it is the municipal politicians. And you, Momodou Malcolm Jallow, represent a party that chose to drop the rule in Malmö because you did not want to take responsibility for these people. If you had chosen to remain in Malmö, take responsibility and face reality, which you beat yourself to the chest because only you are an interpreter of, you could have done something. Instead, it is easy to stand here and say that we are criminals. In addition, you question the ownership and think that you should buy yourself past queues. It is easy to be a left-wing party in this House when you never have to take any responsibility at all.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-98	Madam President, I would like What can I say? I was not quite sure whether I would laugh or cry and whether I had ended up in the wrong place today, because this was one of the more rogue things I have heard in this House for a very long time. In the rental market you should rent things. Yes, of course, but that assumes that there are things to rent. In Sweden today there is a huge shortage of rental apartments. That is precisely why we are having this debate today, because the government has completely failed in its housing policy. But what made me first of all ask for a reply was that Ola Möller in her speech used 90 percent of the time to attack those who buy rental contracts. In my world, it is those who profit from weak, vulnerable people, Madam President, who should be seen as criminals, not those who are exploited. To say that we think it's okay to buy your way past the queues is very strange. We represent the civil committee in the Swedish Parliament, where we ensure that there are clear regulations for how things should be done. And when it comes to buying past the queues in the rental market, we have civil law rules that say it's not okay, that it's not allowed. Ola Möller's argumentation is cautiously expressed desperate. I get the feeling, Madam President, that Ola Möller is more arguing on her own behalf to convince herself that it is a terribly bad proposal to criminalise vulnerable people and that it will be better if you just shout and scream loud enough. That is not good enough, Madam President.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-103	Madam President, I would like I find it hard to understand how you can say that there's nothing to rent when we have 3 million tenants in this country-- they're renting. Again: You get to know which concepts you use. Absolutely there are rental queues, but that there is nothing to rent is not true. Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby represents a party that recently evicted proposals on how to take tougher action against 15-year-olds in suburbs and how young people on glide should be locked in. It's tougher on the kids in the suburbs, but for the ladies at Östermalm it should be possible to buy a rental contract. This is the policy of Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby. I haven't screamed and cried once. I think this is a wise and good proposal. When there are those who completely eliminate the rules on the market, we must, of course, protect the market. This is also something that is closely linked to serious crime. Just go to Södertälje and see what it looks like there. There, gangs take advantage of the desperate need for housing. They put them in unsafe, crowded places and then make demands on them, also often linked to weapons, drugs and the like – just what Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby argues for us to avoid. Lower your tone! This is a sensible proposal for a better functioning rental market.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-108	Madam President, I would like Just to make one thing clear, we want it to be criminal to sell rental contracts. We want it to be criminal to profit from vulnerable people. I still find it remarkable, Madam President, that Ola Möller spends so little time talking about what he has just mentioned in his shift in line, namely the serious crime in the suburbs. They're the ones who sell the leases that we're going to nail. Then we'll have a regulation, and the ladies at Östermalm will follow the same rules as everyone else. But I believe that it is the serious criminals, as Ola Möller just described, who should actually also be regarded as criminals. If a serious criminal person or a serious criminal gang exploits a vulnerable person, it is they who should be punished. As politicians, we must ensure that those who are vulnerable have the opportunity to enter the housing market. There are 3 million tenants, says Ola Möller. Let me quote the Financial Policy Council, the government's own council: The demand for housing exceeds the supply in most municipalities in the country, the queues of housing agencies are record-long and the distribution of rental dwellings is largely through contacts, cheating and illegal sales. The current negotiating system means that the stock of rental dwellings is inefficiently exploited. So this is the government's own body that says. There is a shortage of rental housing, Madam President. It's a dysfunctional housing market we've got ahead of us. Ola Möller can try as hard as he wants to blame the vulnerable people who can't get a home on the white housing market, but the debt is the government.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-113	Madam President, I would like It is a bit surreal to hear a moderate representative argue that we should take care of the most vulnerable when, in years after years, one has consistently reduced unemployment benefits and sickness benefits for these people. It constantly undermines our welfare systems and lowers taxes on those who earn the most. Therefore, it seems a little preoccupied when Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby now all of a sudden will be the defenders of the weak. In addition, Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby should probably do some outside coverage, because the group of serious criminals is a group that I personally have done very much to try to counteract in Helsingborg. I have spoken a great deal, including in the local media, about the need to deal with this. I've been on camera surveillance, I've told them about all the measures the government has taken and I've met some of the bad guys and told them that it's bullshit what they're doing, that it's destroying our society. I think Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby's tone and tailing are a bit boring, given that in this case she does not know what she is talking about. Then gross criminal criminals. The statement that Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby makes here is as winged as Annie Lööf that it should be criminal to be a criminal in Sweden. There'll be a lot of tautologies here that don't go together. Somewhere we must, once again, be a little careful with the words. There are rental apartments to rent. However, reducing people's income by reducing unemployment benefits and sickness benefits makes it more difficult for them to demand them. Nevertheless, the government is doing a great deal to make the housing market work better. The presentation of the Financial Policy Council did not take supply into account; it only talked about demand. I was listening to that seminar this morning. It should also have been Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby because she uses them as a reference.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-119	Madam President, I would like I was going to return the discussion to today's topic. We Christian Democrats have no problem with property rights. We think that property owners should be able to afford their properties and rent out to those they want based on the rules of the game. The problem is that the rules of the game don't work, and then we'll get a deviation in the system that involves black contracts. I do not think anyone in this House wants black contracts. The debate is not about that, but about how to get to the best of the black contracts. My party does not believe that the best thing is to criminalise the one who is the last in line and the victim. That's what it's all about. We think it is good to criminalise those who sell the contracts, i.e. those who are first-hand renters. But criminalising the person who buys a contract because of his situation is not the best thing, we think. We believe that civil law measures can be taken to get to grips with this. How have the Social Democrats thought that criminalisation should be observed? How are you going to prosecute these people? How big is the problem? Since you believe that it cannot be resolved by civil law, you must have thought that criminalisation is the only thing that helps. How did you come to that conclusion? It is a long step to move from civil action to criminalisation. I would like answers to these questions and thus return the discussion to the subject. We have a rental market that doesn't work and we don't want it. How do we solve it in the best way? I don't think it's by criminalization.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-124	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Larry Söder for his usual objective and calm speech without a lot of hope for either the Social Democrats or the government. As I said, I attended a seminar with the Council of Finance Ministers this morning. The President-in-Office of the Council, Harry Flam, then mentioned that 20 percent of young people aged 25 to 35 in the Stockholm region have paid for a rental contract. I don't know what his reference was, but I'm referring to him. Ola Johansson was also at the seminar and can confirm the figure. So there are estimates that the problem is quite extensive. Most of those who buy rental contracts in the Stockholm region, at least in the inner city, are not among the most vulnerable. As I said in my speech, there is a conflict of interests here. I understand the argument and may find it problematic for those who are being exploited by serious criminals. That is regrettable and, of course, I sympathise to a great extent with their vulnerability. But I can't sympathize with executives who buy 2 1⁄2 million rents at Östermalm. This is where there is a conflict of interests. Should it be illegal to disable the inner city rental market but allowed in our suburbs? I don't think so. How will it be followed up? We have a lot of legislation that is difficult to follow up on. This applies, for example, to speeding. How many people drive too fast on our roads without going there? Should we remove that legislation simply because it is difficult to follow up? It's a signal value in that it's criminal. It is no longer okay to sit at a dinner and say that you are prepared to pay 100,000 for someone's apartment. It becomes shameful, people no longer do it and the thresholds are raised.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-131	Madam President, I would like I think it's hard to estimate how many people have bought black contracts because they're black contracts. We all think that this is a problem, but there are a number of measures that can be taken before criminalising. What the government is doing together with the Center Party and Liberals is going past all the steps and taking the last because it has a high signal value. Let's first take the other steps along the way. If civil action is not enough, we can move on, but let us not start there. It's problematic. As the Social Democrats said in the speaker's chair, quite a few young people are being offered this and would then be criminalised. They haven't thought about it. It is not their first, second or third option to pay for a rental contract, but they want to do the right thing. It is the very system we want to access, and we can access it in ways other than criminalising people. Let us avoid rejection in the debate. We have a common goal, but the way to the goal can be different. I don't think the way is to criminalize people. In that case, the police and the judiciary must be given the resources to deal with this, and that will not happen.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-136	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder argues that you should be able to buy yourself past the line. If you have a network of contacts and the possibility to buy a contract, this should not be criminal even though it interferes with the entire municipal housing queue system. I believe that the disruption of the system justifies the criminalisation of this. People will then not be able to sit at a dinner and offer to buy someone's apartment because other people at the same dinner say That's not okay. Higher thresholds are being created. It will also be much more difficult for serious criminals to get a market to sell these contracts when it knows that even the one they offer the contract is at risk of punishment. It raises the thresholds, and that is one of the main arguments for this. Yes, we need to increase mobility in the housing market. The big problem, however, is that there are too few housing. Then we need to discuss how we provide more housing so that supply and demand meet. We have had this discussion many times, and since the President has asked us to stick to the subject, I am not going to go into the abolition of investment aid. One can either try to find more homes or screw in a zero-sum game, and of course the supply of housing is the main solution to the problem of a dysfunctional market.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-141	Madam President, I would like I noticed that Ola Möller stood up for ownership. It is the Social Democracy that we recognise and like. It is the Social Democracy that also agrees not to ban profit withdrawals in welfare companies. We also like the social democracy that points to the problem of a dysfunctional rental market where people pay far too low rent in attractive locations, such as Östermalm. It is important that these aspects are included in the discussion, and I am grateful that Ola Möller raised this in her speech. Madam President, I would like It is quite common in this speaker's chair to talk about the importance of combating organised crime, money laundering and fraud. Those of us who are a little more humanistic also say that people's exposure to personal gain should not be exploited, that victims are vulnerable, that there is sometimes reason to analyse the cause of this vulnerability and that a certain type of crime is increasing as a result. It is therefore surprising what laxity, above all, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats show against those who here are called helpers and intermediaries but who are actually fraudsters, usurers and small traders in an organised and very widespread criminal activity. It consists of an unserious landlord opening an apartment for unlawful compensation. Most often it is in the form of money, but there can be other things too, such as sexual services. It may also be a tenant who charges, in money or, in the worst case, sexual services, to transfer his rental contract. All of this comes from the fact that we have a dysfunctional housing market where people's vulnerability becomes the only and very lucrative source of income for these fraudsters. Madam President, I would like The fact that there is an extreme housing shortage should not be an excuse for not prosecuting fraudsters, whether they are renters or tenants? Now that the Christian Democrats and the Moderates are in agreement with the Left Party to oppose this bill, one can speak of an unholy alliance to protect criminals. The legislative amendments to be adopted today with the report "Action against trade in rental contracts" are part of the January agreement. There are a total of five points that concern housing policy, and I have not mentioned the reform of beach protection and simpler building rules under other headings. In paragraph 44, in addition to what is being debated here, there is, firstly, free renting in new production; secondly, measures to give the location factor an impact also in existing rentals with utility rents – there we have the Östermalm example mentioned by Ola Möller – and thirdly, a completely independent procedure for disputes in rental negotiations. A little later today, we will also discuss election and election. Everyone should understand that it is the widespread lack of housing and the inability of several governments – that is, the inability of several governments – to reform the leasing system that is basically the reason why we are now being forced to tighten the penalties and, in addition, to make it criminal to buy a black rental contract as a secondary tenant and sell it on. One of the basic problems in the housing market is poor mobility. Anyone who has obtained a first-hand contract will release it reluctantly – here again we have the example of Östermalm. Even if you no longer need an apartment, you always have the opportunity to make money by subletting it or, worse, renting out a mattress on the floor. It is now not just a matter of first-hand contracts but also of secondary contracts and places for residents on mattresses. Sums of between SEK 100 000 and SEK 400 000 are mentioned as compensation to black intermediaries or so-called helpers further out in the chain. The smaller the apartment, the bigger the money involved. An understatement on the basis of which the proposal is based states that there are more people who have paid compensation black to another tenant than directly to the property owner. Therefore, there is no reason to exempt tenants from criminal liability, as they are highly liable. It takes two to tango, they say, and it is also not always the person who invites to dance, i.e. the landlord, who is guilty. The landlord may not even know that it is dancing and may be completely unaware of what is going on. On average in the country, almost 5 percent have rented a second-hand apartment, and among young people in the big cities there are as many as 30 percent, which I think was what Ola Möller referred to when he mentioned Harry Flam. It's Boverket who's done this investigation, or if it's the Tenant's Association, I'm not sure. If you live under these premises, it goes without saying that you would rather pay and stay than risk moving out into the street. The reporting frequency in these cases is already low, and often neighbors suspect illegal rentals and report this. The new law won't stop it. On the contrary, it is well that a property owner can have the effect of notifying a tenant who abuses his contract by selling it on – a property owner who sees this business going on within his own property and cannot control that procedure. I am pleased that Ola Möller highlights the aspect of ownership that an owner of a property must also have control over what is going on within the property. It is precisely the combination of harsh penalties and a consistent reform of the rental market towards deregulation, allowing greater variations, that is the Center Party's medicine to increase the availability of rental apartments. It is a pity that the Moderates and Christian Democrats do not share that view. When it comes to the requirement that you have lived in an apartment for at least one year in order to be able to apply to the rent board if a change is made, it is precisely to reduce the risk of diversion, i.e. that you never live in the apartment. The Social Democrats argue that it should be six months, but it is egalt what period of time it is because such a diversion can take place even before someone has moved into the apartment. It is also clear that there is a possibility of making exceptions if, for example, it concerns work or studies. Roger Hedlund mentioned probationary contracts. I note that the Swedish Democrats mainly support the proposal to criminalise second-hand rentals but stand empty-handed in relation to other housing policies. The changes are as shown one thing that property owners pay attention but often find it difficult to lead in evidence. It must be assumed that the person who changes his apartment has good reasons for doing so rather than cancelling it. If you do not mark it through legislation, we are afraid that we are cementing a situation where few apartments enter the open market and serious landlords are forced to adapt to those who stretch the rules. Madam President, I would like Should a second-hand rental be allowed to depart from a first-hand rental in addition to a ceiling of 15 per cent for any furnishing in the apartment? The Centre Party is generally in favour of greater variations in renting based not only on the standard of the apartment but also on its attractiveness based on the nature of the area and its geographical location. We think that this should give a greater result in the usual renting, and that is why we are pleased that the government is now going to set up a Commission to identify the varying application of the location factor in leasing and propose measures against this. The market value of an apartment shall also be taken into account in leasing. It will provide lower rents in some places and higher rents on others. It is precisely in those places where rental levels are not matched by the attractiveness of the dwelling that it is possible to charge a significantly higher secondary rent. The Center Party understands the arguments of the Christian Democrats in that part. It has previously been said that there is too much focus on rental rights in the January agreement – we have heard Larry Söder say that – while the position they support together with the Moderates in their reservation is based on exactly the opposite, namely that more rental rights need to be made available. But for us in the Center Party it's not either or it's both. Anyone who is prepared to pay more for an attractive lease should be able to buy a home, and if one is in favour of a more marketable lease, one should instead be satisfied with the proposals we put forward otherwise and not the back door allow market rents by making them free in the case of second-hand leases and also make it punishable to rent such an apartment further as a tenant. Madam President, I would like I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-162	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by trying to respond to what Ola Möller said in our shift in line with the criminalisation of politicians. I have worked with democracy for many years, and in my world the law will apply to everyone in a democracy, whether you are a Member of Parliament, a municipal politician or another citizen. If we can criminalise victims of something we have created ourselves, I think it is only right to prosecute those very politicians who are breaking the law. This is about legislation contained in the Constitution, and then we must comply with it. To Ola Johansson I would like to say that I think this is the strangest debate I have had. The Social Democrats are talking about property rights at the expense of the commons. For me as a left-wing party, it is very important to have the common property, precisely that we own together. That is why I am not here defending property rights, but rather the common property, and the common good is incredibly important in our policy. The Center Party is talking about an unholy alliance to protect criminals. When you listen to Ola Johansson, it sounds to him like everyone who buys contracts is a criminal. I find that unworthy, because many of these people are vulnerable. As the Social Democrats mentioned here earlier, there is a conflict of objectives. There are those who are very rich, and there are those who are poor and vulnerable. To say that we are defending criminals is to insinuate that everyone who buys contracts is a criminal. Does the Center Party think this is the case? According to Ola Johansson, are all these poor and vulnerable families with children and those who have no home today criminals?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-166	Madam President, I would like As for Momodou Malcolm Jallow finishing the line shift with Ola Möller with me, I will not take part of it, unless I shall perceive it as a threat to me as well. Then we can discuss it, but I think it is an unpleasant argument to bring from speaking chairs in the Swedish Parliament. That's what I wanted to say. I cannot help but note that it is a little strange that the Left Party, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates are on the same side in protecting criminals. It seems that neither these parties nor Momodou Malcolm Jallow have read through the evidence we have to make this decision. There, the Finnish Immigration Service, municipal officials, municipal housing companies and new arrivals themselves say, if we talk about that group of vulnerable people, that there is an organised activity. People who call themselves helpers or intermediaries make a living selling these rental contracts. The vulnerable person, whom Momodou Jallow describes and whom I mentioned at the outset, is a person to whom particular attention should be paid, but who is also in the chain. But the person is at the end of the chain and is the one who pays the highest amounts because there are people who make money in each stage before that. Those people are also second-hand tenants who are criminals and live on the vulnerability of these people. With regard to the way in which prison sentences and scales of penalties are designed, there is consideration to be given to the vulnerable situation in which people find themselves and to the extent to which they have committed crimes in this activity, including as subletters. It seems that Momodou Malcolm Jallow has not understood what this is all about. It's about organized crime. It's about serious criminals who make money they don't tax for, for which they buy drugs and for which they wash. It is the criminal elements we want to get to grips with this legislation.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-171	Madam President, I would like I started my line by answering Ola Möller. But since Ola Johansson says that it is unpleasant, I would like to know what is unpleasant about me saying that the law should apply to everyone, including politicians. We all agree that fraudsters, abusers and organised crime should be combated. It applies to those who sell to and exploit other people. It's a good thing we're just criminalizing the sale of black contracts. We agree on that. This isn't about that. It's about those who buy doing it because they're desperate. I want to make it clear that I am not talking about the group that Ola Johansson spoke about: organised criminals or extremely rich capitalists. I am talking about vulnerable families with children who, because of poor housing policy, have no place to live. I am talking about the victims who are allowed to stand in the housing queue for five, six, seven years or more without getting anywhere to live with their families. I'm talking about those who can't travel and work anywhere else, in any other municipality, because there's no place to live there. I'm talking about those who can't study or study in another municipality, because there's no place to live there. They're not criminals. They do not belong to organized crime. They are victims of poor housing policy. Why should we criminalise them rather than just criminalize those who exploit these groups? We should put forward a social housing policy that ensures that everyone in this country has a place to live.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-175	Madam President, I would like I agree with Momodou Jallow that housing policy needs to be reformed. That's exactly what we're doing now. We make sure to get the construction started, we make sure to get better mobility in the housing market and we make sure to get a lease that better reflects the attractiveness of the housing in order to avoid this type of black trade in contracts. This is not just about vulnerable people in particularly vulnerable areas. It's a large group. You live on mattresses that you rent in the second, third, fourth, fifth or sixth hands, because it is still legal to rent out in the second place. It seems that Momodou Malcolm Jallow has not understood what this discussion is about. It is not just about the victims, those who stand at the far end and who are affected by it. It is about every stage of this very well-organised criminal activity that consists of subletting housing. That's what it's all about. It seems Momodou Malcolm Jallow has not understood that. We talk past each other all the time. In this debate, it is important to note that in the illegal market, the market rents are in full swing. A completely brutal market lease exists on the black market. We are very pleased that the government wants to take this to heart. We are also very pleased that, with the January agreement, we are now having discussions in order to achieve more varied renting also in the existing stock. This means that we get a more free renting with greater variety of rental contracts and rental levels. In the long term, it will contribute to a different mobility of the housing market, which will become legal and not illegal. Momodou Malcolm Jallow attacks me and accuses me of being a criminal. It's boring. I note that he has not understood what this is all about.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-181	Madam President, I would like I would first like to say that the Moderates and the Center Party have a lot in common in terms of housing policy and how we want to reform Swedish housing policy, or rather how we want to develop a housing policy – it is difficult to reform something that does not exist. Madam President, I would like We don't protect criminals. But we say no to making a vulnerable group a criminal. We want to be tough on those who exploit people in a vulnerable situation. It takes two to tango, says Ola Johansson in his speech. Absolutely! And we want to remove the gross, organized crime from the equation. That is why we welcome more firmly those who exploit, profit from and prevent people – often vulnerable – from accessing a first-hand contract. We do not think this proposal to criminalise is good. Ola Johansson says in her speech that we have entered into an unholy alliance with the Left Party. Ola Johansson also claims to be a humanist. It's very nice. But where is humanism in turning vulnerable people into criminals, Madam President? As far as unholy alliances are concerned, I can see that in this particular proposal it is the Centre Party which, with the support of the Swedish Democrats, wants to criminalise vulnerable, weak people who are already being exploited by the serious criminal activity.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-185	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned in my main speech, a study has shown that of those who pay black for a rental contract, it is a larger proportion that makes it another tenant than who pays directly to the property owner. It is therefore a big problem that there are second-hand tenants who rent out in the second place. I do not understand how the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Left Party want to get to this crime by only directing legislation towards the property owner, when there are secondary tenants who profit from renting out apartments in this way.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-187	Madam President, I would like But seriously, we want it to be criminal to sell a rental contract – end of story! But it shouldn't be criminal to be the one who has to buy it. The seller's actions are criminal. We have no other proposal but that a seller of a rental contract should be regarded as a criminal already today and continue to be. It's a criminal act. We have no other opinion. Our reservation is that we do not want people who are not criminals today but who have fallen into the hands of an organised crime that sells rental contracts to be considered criminals. They are victims of this criminal organised crime and are to be regarded as victims of it and of a completely failed Swedish housing policy. They are the victims of a government that is unable to bring about a functioning housing policy. Madam President, I would like I can see that if the Centre Party and the Liberals had chosen a different way out of the autumn than to get into the lap of a red-green government, which is unable to solve the housing crisis in Sweden, we might have had some of the proposals that Ola Johansson from the speaker's chair says could solve the problem.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-190	Madam President, I would like I can myself note that in that case we would have had a government that would have been dependent on the Swedish Democrats in every political decision that we should have taken. It is a situation that we wanted to avoid at all costs, as Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby is aware. There is no government that can be accused of having had a particularly successful housing policy. Unfortunately, previous governments have also failed to make the reforms in the rental market that we now believe we can implement with the January agreement. They mean that we get a more varied lease payment in the existing stock. Property owners also have the opportunity to create free renting in new production, if you choose. This is a major breakthrough, against which there has been too much opposition in previous government formations. Let me return to what the issue is about, namely making the purchase of a rental contract criminal. There is a purchase at any transfer that means that someone profites from selling such a contract on. My question to Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby is: At what stage should you go in with the legislation and say that it is criminal to sell a lease on? I know she has no further line to answer the question.
i-265ccfa19b751cb8-0	When you sell. )
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-193	Madam President, I would like This is my first debate in a while. I must say that I am a little surprised by the tone and the use of words, such as the criminalisation of politicians. We in Parliament need to keep a better note than we do in social media. Today I have seen a better tone in social media than I have heard in this House. I think we need to calm down a little bit. This is politics. The serious thing is out there. Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling, on behalf of the Liberals, for the proposal contained in the report as a whole and for the reservations to be rejected. The bill on measures against trade in rental contracts is part of the January agreement, which the Liberals have concluded with the Social Democrats, the Cen ter Party and the Green Party. In this agreement, the Liberals have won many liberal victories that will make the Swedish housing market much better. Five examples of this are:
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-196	The location factor shall be taken into account more closely in the leasing process. A change in legislation on own living as an asylum seeker, with exceptions for vulnerable areas to enable them to develop and improve again 中 removed removal tax, which will make that more people will be able to afford to move to something better 中 an arbitration procedure when rents are negotiated between the parties and they fail to reach an agreement. Our aim with regard to the last point is that tenants should never suffer from retroactive rent increases. Madam President, I would like We will have to get used to the fact that the representatives of the Liberals in this House will announce that the Liberals have achieved liberal reforms in the housing market that make Sweden better and that give more people a chance to get a place to live. This particular debate may not be one of which I will boast most of all. Liberals fully agree with most of the proposals in the report and believe that they are needed to curb the black trade and usury. One of the most important proposals is to restrict the trading process in order to make it more difficult to transfer rental contracts for payment. Many use it as a way to change the same apartment all the time, that is, to trade with them. Having it like this isn't good. Another important suggestion is that anyone who has bought or tried to sell a rental contract should be able to lose their rental right immediately. This is a very great punishment. A person in Stockholm may have paid several hundred thousand for a rental contract and may now lose it. A tenant who has a first-hand contract and who rents out his apartment in the second place should no longer be able to charge a rent higher than his own rent with extras for furniture and the like. Those who charge too high a rent should be able to lose their first-hand contract. We also think that this is important and reasonable. The most important measure, which we really support, is that the penalties for selling and brokering rental contracts against unlawful payment should be much tougher. This is a very important reform to ensure that property owners and landlords do not use and exploit people who are in great need of a home. Madam President, I would like Liberals basically believe that these proposals are sufficient in a first step to curb the black trade in rental contracts and excessive secondary rents. But as part of the January agreement, the Social Democrats and the Center Party have achieved criminalisation. This means that the bill also contains a proposal that it will be criminal to buy rental contracts and to sublet an apartment without permission for an excessive rent. Liberals have in the past been very critical of this bill. We do not really think it is reasonable to criminalise the purchase of rental contracts by individuals when the option for many is homelessness or that one has to turn down a dream job. In addition, all other options for curbing the black trade should be tested before criminalising. It is called the principle of proportionality in law school. Power primarily uses the necessary means of power. I really think you should try them first. However, as this is part of the January agreement, the Liberals will today vote in favour of the whole proposal. Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing criminalisation of the purchase of rental contracts because the Swedish housing market has failed. It costs too much to build housing. It takes too long to build the houses. And in the case of existing houses, many groups in society are effectively excluded because of excessive housing queues. It is not possible to rent the dwellings in the housing queue. For example, it takes ten years in Stockholm to get a lease in Rinkeby. That is really the problem, and that is what we need to solve. The lock-in effects are large, which means that companies do not dare or want to invest in Sweden. They simply find no place where their staff can live. We in the Liberals are therefore delighted that the January agreement involves a changed leasing system. That is the basis of the problems we are discussing today. Within a couple of years, free renting in new production and fairer rents in the existing stock will result in more rental rights being built and fewer apartments being traded on the black market. Hopefully, therefore, the law that we are discussing today will not have to be used in many Swedes in the future. We very much hope that legislators choose to use the confiscation of rental rights instead of criminalisation in the first place. Madam President, I would like Liberal reforms in the January agreement will contribute to a more dynamic housing market where fewer people get stuck in exclusion and more people will feel the sense of freedom and pride of entering their first home.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-213	Madam President, I would like I think Robert Hannah is a real humanist. I get the feeling that this debate is not the simplest thing that Robert Hannah has been through, and I understand the agony of having to press a button that goes right against what you stand for and what I know Robert Hannah and the Liberals stand for, namely humanism. My question to Robert Hannah today is as follows. In the area by area, party after party that has signed the JÖK says that they do not stand up for politics. How is it that in this particular case the Liberals chose to lie down, to bow down, when it is an area of humanism and to protect those who are vulnerable? Is this not an area in which the Liberals should have stood up for and defended the weak man, that is, the person who has been subjected to crime? I would like to hear how the Liberals have reasoned on this issue.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-216	Madam President, I would like If more than half of Sweden had voted for the Liberals, we would have received the Liberals' policy. Now the Liberals are part of an agreement, and this means that the parties in Sweden that are on the extreme side – the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats – do not have any influence. We in our party are proud of this, although I would rather have Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister. In politics, we in Sweden will never see that a single party dominates everything again and gets to set the agenda. Even when we were part of an alliance government – which I prefer and believe would have been better for Sweden – we had to compromise. The thing that I compromised the most with then and of which I am least proud is the custody allowance, which made that very many women in exclusion areas continued to live far from society, did not get into work etcetera. A political party that wants to take responsibility for Sweden cannot get through all its political proposals. This is an example where the Liberals have not got a political proposal through. Everything we are discussing today is really about a rental market that is not working. In the January agreement, the Liberals have obtained free renting in new production. We will review the existing stock and how the rents are set there with location adjustment etc. I think it will contribute to a better rental market at large. I am confident that we will have a better rental market. Then I hope that legislators will look at the resources available and use confiscation of rental law as the main measure and criminalisation only in very extreme situations, in which case fines as punishment.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-222	Madam President, I would like I can't help but share Robert Hannahs's hope of avoiding criminalising vulnerable people. With regard to the Liberals' choice to support the Red-Green Government to keep the SD out of it, I can only say briefly that today's decision, which is absolutely about humanism and very much of what I believe the Liberals stand for, supports the SD to take the opposite decision to what I think you would like. So SD is there regardless. With regard to the JÖK and the proposals that Robert Hannah hopes will lead to an increase in housing construction, I would have been a little worried, Madam President, if I had been Robert Hannah. In his replica with me Ola Möller claims that there are rental apartments available, but in the replica with Larry Söder says Ola Möller that more rental apartments must be built. Then I would have been a little worried, Madam President. Liberals have chosen to support a government that does not even agree with itself on whether there is a need for more rental rights or whether there are rental rights available. I can only wish Robert Hannah good luck in the further negotiations. I very much hope, for the sake of Sweden, that the Liberals will come forward with their proposals, because with regard to the Social Democrats, Madam President, I have little hope.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-225	Madam President, I would like I'm on my own, too. I think I will be very good in the negotiations and will try to get as much liberal policy through as possible. Sweden needs a liberalised housing market. We need free renting in new production. We also need to have freer and more situationalised renting in the existing stock. It's unfair rents. I come from a suburb of Gothenburg where we have the same rents as they have in Haga, the absolutely most popular district. This is the main reason why people do not want to move, to buy and sell a rental in Sweden today and to the housing shortage. The objective of liberals is indeed to ensure that we have a better housing market. It will be a bit problematic if we succeed, because those voters who most of all think that we should have free renting are the voters of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. However, I believe that this is what Sweden needs, and that is what we will fight for.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-228	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying, speaking of Momodou Jallow's earlier speech, that it is usually in dictatorships that politicians argue for throwing their political opponents into prison. Then there is what Trump said about Hillary, but that is an exception. It is primarily in dictatorships that they do so. It's not so common in democracies. I want to be very clear as Minister of Justice. There may be people who, after listening to this debate, are going around thinking that there are some other rules that apply to politicians than to others. It's not like that. The law covers everyone, politicians, too. If we were to commit crimes, we would be judged in the same courts as everyone else under exactly the same laws as everyone else. It is important to clarify that, I think. But when you argue that your political opponents should be put in prison for political reasons, you cross a line. I have to make that clear and make that clear. Having said that, I would like to begin by thanking the committee for its sympathetic treatment of the government proposal. I would particularly like to thank the Center and Liberals for their good cooperation on this product. That is one of the points of the January Agreement. I think that's paragraph 44. We often say that there are 73 points in the January agreement, but each point can have a great many steps under it. In total, I think these are 255 points on which we have agreed. It's a very broad collaboration. Emma Hult, Ola Möller, Ola Johansson and Robert Hannah have explained in an excellent way during this debate how necessary the reforms we are now making are. I think that Ola Johansson put it well when he said that those who are now against this – the Moderates and the Left Party were pointed out – are creating an unholy alliance to protect criminals. That is rather harsh, but I must say that I agree with that. It is also at that end that I would like to start the discussion on my part. Sweden has for over 20 years had problems with a firmly established organised crime. It takes many forms. The recent acts of violence – shootings and explosions – are the effects of organised crime and the conflicts between criminal gangs. These are gangs engaged in all kinds of crime, especially drug crime. Many have their base in the vulnerable neighborhoods, where they can run around thinking they can own an area, a block, or a shop. They can do anything. My view is that the most important task of criminal policy is to uproot those gang structures with their roots. In order to tackle this type of crime, it is necessary to be prepared to proceed with both criminal and other measures. Social measures must also be taken to prevent recruitment to these gangs. There are examples of how progress has been broken. You may have seen that Gårdsten in Gothenburg is no longer regarded as a particularly vulnerable area according to the police's assessment. At home in Skåne we have Seved in Malmö, where the police now say that they have managed to break the recruitment to the criminal gangs. A number of examples can be mentioned in Sweden where this works. To continue this work requires increased police presence, more surveillance cameras and stricter penalties, all that we have worked on in recent years to give the judiciary the opportunities to get to grips with this crime. But if you want to break that crime and these activities, you have to do it at all levels. You have to go on it no matter what criminal activity you can imagine the criminals working with and therefore also no matter how they earn their money. If they make their money out of drug trafficking, we'll jam it out. If they make their money by tampering with the taxes, we're gonna put the IRS on them. If they earn their money from subsidy fraud or fraud with assistance payments, as we have also seen, those loopholes should be closed. And they make their money through the black trade in rental contracts, we're gonna go over there and strangle that revenue source. It is in this context that one should see the bill that is now on the table of the Riksdag. The illegal trade in rental contracts has a very large turnover in Sweden. It is not only unfair because it means that the person who has money can take precedence, but it is also a source of revenue for various criminal circles that should not be underestimated. There are sophisticated arrangements with fake agreements and untrue certificates. This is done professionally by rogue property owners and black brokers, and there is often a link with organised crime. This also includes the problem of unauthorised subletting with unfair rents, not to say usury, as it is sometimes. I believe that the average for second-hand rents is now 50% higher than first-hand rents. In Stockholm, they are 100 per cent higher than first-hand rents. It is simply unreasonable. It is an abuse and also an expression of the fact that some people never hesitate to exploit and profit from the vulnerability of others. The proposal we are now putting forward aims to create more order and order in that market and to stop the criminal's opportunities for revenue. I am pleased to say that these proposals are backed up by all parties in the housing market. They are backed up by the Tenants' Association, the public-interest property owners and the private property owners. It is certainly not common for all three of these to back up proposals that we are making on the rental market. It's usually just the opposite. It is usually the case that there is a difference of opinion on this. But on this issue, they agree. These are measures that must be taken. I have listened to the debate. It is interesting to see how the Moderates and the Left Party fall into each other's arms when it comes to being against the proposal. I don't think I've ever heard Moderates applaud a left-wing party's speech so much. It was probably the first time that I just heard it in the Chamber. The Moderates want to be tough on organized crime. But when it comes to this matter, we are obviously going to be so soft. The only interpretation I can make of it, and as many have done in the debate, is that you do not think it is so dangerous. It doesn't matter if the person who has plenty of money takes precedence over someone else in the rental market. There's something you can see between your fingers. You can be heard talking about how important it is to rent. As soon as you gain power in any municipality somewhere, what is the first thing you do? Well, then you'll sell out the leases and reduce the stock on the rental market. There is no credibility at all in that argument. It is even more difficult to understand the position of the Left Party here. You point out that the buyer of a rental contract may be in a vulnerable situation. That can certainly be the case. But there are also plenty of examples to the contrary. I think Ola Möller mentioned that it also occurs on Östermalm. In any case, the solution to the problem we have can never be to drive vulnerable people into the hands of usurers and criminal gangs. There was talk of the situation with a pregnant woman who was unable to find a place to live. Then one wonders: What was the Left Party's advice to the pregnant woman? Was it that she was going to go into debt with a criminal gang to get a place to live? If so, that's a very bad advice. My advice would be: Go to social services and ask for social support! There are opportunities, and there is the legislation that is needed to offer, for example, families with children a roof over their heads. In fact, we have that system in Sweden. But can never, in that situation, give them the advice: Blame yourselves and get in the grip of – as I think Ola Möller said – people in these circles! It will be devastating eventually. It's not a piece of advice to give. I don't think so. Neither does the Tenants' Association, which supports the legislation. Of course, this bill does not solve the housing shortage. I don't think there's anyone in here who thinks it's that way. There is only one solution to the housing shortage problem. It's building more homes. It's no stranger than that. We are doing so thanks to the investment aid that we introduced in the last parliamentary term. We are now at a rate of residential construction that in some respects is the highest in nearly 40 years. You almost have to go back to the million-dollar program time to find the same pace. In the case of rental apartments, 22 000 rental apartments were completed last year. That's the highest figure in over 25 years. We had a couple of years in the early 90s where we had about the same numbers. But then you have to go back to the 70s to find something similar again. We have a very high rate of housing construction when it comes to rentals right now. It is, in my view, the result of the investment aid and other measures that we took during the last term of office that housing construction has increased in the way it has done. Now the support will remain. Even if the Moderates and Christian Democrats want to abolish it, it will remain. Now that it may remain, it will be able to continue to contribute to keeping housing at the very high level so that we can gradually eliminate the housing shortage, Madam President.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-252	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for participating in the debate on the bill presented by the government! I noted in your speech that you mention a range of measures that are important for creating security in many residential areas. The Swedish democrats have, among other things, presented area planning in the field of housing policy as an important effort to create police efforts that make it safer in the vulnerable areas. There's a lot to do there. With regard to the scale of penalties for increased penalties for illegal trade in rental contracts, the Swedish Democrats recommend that a higher penalty rate be imposed. The serious criminal sector handles rental contracts in a more systematic manner. This crime is in proportion to serious fraud and serious tax offences, according to the Swedish Democrats. That is why we believe that we should have a maximum of six years in prison instead of four years, which is the government's proposal. It is also a good way to be able to work actively with several measures against the criminal networks and gangs. They collect much of their money through, for example, the sale of rental contracts and the black trade. We therefore believe that the level of penalties should be higher. I see that the government and Morgan Johansson are not in favour of this harmonisation.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-255	Madam President, I would like A general principle of criminal law is that the length of penalties must be proportionate to the seriousness of the offence. You can always discuss where those boundaries are. But it has no effect at all to raise from four to six years when it comes to the maximum penalty in the way the Swedish Democrats advocate. In substance, it would have no meaning whatsoever. There is every reason to stand by the assessment we have made. That will be the most effective in the measures we take.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-256	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the answer, Morgan Johansson! On behalf of the Swedish Democrats, we think it is important to harmonise the scale of penalties. When we see how extensive the market with black rental contracts is, how much money is there and how much it finances the serious criminal crime in Sweden, we think it is important to go in with harsh penalties right off. We always believe that high scales of penalties are part of several areas in order to combat this type of crime. We do not share the government's view that the difference between four and six years would have no effect. We believe that there is a difference in effect, and harmonisation in this area is important. We find it sad, for by the way, we support the Government in a great deal of the proposals that have been made about the black trade and other trade in rental contracts. The Swedish Democrats are pleased to have been able to come up with this proposal, which harmonises with the attitude of the Swedish Democrats. Finally, perhaps you can receive a thank you from Morgan Johansson for getting this proposal through. It is, of course, the Swedish Democrats who make it possible for the proposal to pass when the Left Party does not back up on this issue.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-260	Madam President, I would like I have expressed my thanks to the Centre Party and the Liberals for a good collaboration on the bill. I think that is quite enough, because that is what will be part of the policy for the next parliamentary term. When our cooperation works well, as it has done in this situation, we will also be able to get through the proposals we put forward. Quite frankly, there is quite a difference between the two types of crime that Roger Hedlund is arguing about when he says he wants to harmonise this. I believe that almost entirely whatever scale of penalties I had proposed, the Swedish Democrats would have proposed a further year. It is somehow part of the political game. However, those of us who stand up for fundamental principles of criminal law and the principle of proportionality must put ourselves at a level where the punishment we advocate is proportionate to the crime we are talking about. Then we have landed at the level we have done.
i-FFo1Sc48TG99bo7CU7NmEd	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, Minister Peter Eriksson and Minister for Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-263	Madam President, I would like I turn to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. I believe that there is a great deal of support in this House that we should use various forms of European cooperation to ensure peace and security. Then there are initiatives both within the EU and outside. One outside, but still within the framework of Europe, is the French initiative European Intervention Initiative, EII. There a number of countries, a total of ten eleven, have merged. It was launched on 25 June 2018 and consists of Denmark, Estonia, Germany and the Netherlands. I have repeatedly asked questions about this. Then the answer has been that as long as we have a transitional government, it is not possible to join. Then my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: the Prime Minister was in Paris on Friday. Would it not have been an excellent opportunity for a signal that Sweden can also become a member of this cooperation, the French initiative EII?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-266	Madam President, I would like We are in favour of this.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-267	Madam President, I would like It is somewhat unclear whether it was in favour of this being done on Friday or on the initiative itself. But then I will supplement my question. I also asked a written question at the beginning of February and got the answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Sweden has an ongoing, close and constructive dialogue with France on the initiative. So that's, like, four months ago. Could it be that the reason why we have not become a member of EII is unclear about the so-called nuclear ban, that France does not want to let Sweden in as long as Sweden cannot give a clear message about the so-called nuclear ban?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-269	Madam President, I would like No, now Hans Wallmark is making up something that sounds really weird. Of course not! We have signalled, even during our visit to Paris, that we are interested in joining. We have also announced this on another occasion when Hans Wallmark was on the Foreign Affairs Committee. We intend to join this initiative.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-271	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Baylan. Next week, the Riksdag will decide on an extension of the Temporary Migration Act. The Left Liberal Alliance has also squeezed in a relaxation of the demands for family immigration. Thousands of migrants without refugee status should be allowed to bring their relatives here instead of being reunited in their own countries. And instead of making perfectly reasonable demands for migrants to arrange the livelihood of their relatives, it will be the task of municipalities to arrange housing and grants for thousands of new family migrants. When humanism is tax-financed, it is ultimately a matter of priorities. In the last month, there have been several alarm reports of lousy municipal economies. Madam President, I would like My question to the Minister is: Which parts of the core business does the government believe that the municipalities should cut back on when family migrants are prioritised? Who's going to be prioritised?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-275	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. We shall have order and order in the policy of migration. This is an issue that this government and the government have been working on before, during the previous term of office. We have made major changes in legislation in the sense of getting things right and making sure that it is precisely those who have asylum reasons who can stay. This is, of course, something that is changing. I know from my own experience that what can be quiet in one place one day especially in these changing times can change quickly. Madam President, I would like If this is the case, the government will not hesitate for a second: order and order are what we will pursue. The Swedish democratic idea is to put it against efforts in the municipalities. Then those who listen should know that every time the Swedish Democrats have the chance to vote on either more resources for the municipalities or major tax cuts via a moderate budget motion, there will be tax cuts via the moderate budget movement. More resources for the municipalities will be available via a Social Democratic government.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-280	Madam President, I would like As recently as 2018, Prime Minister Löfven said, "Sweden cannot have more generous legislation than the surrounding countries." Yet the government is now increasing the rate of migration again. Yet the government creates incentives for more anchor children. When the state makes decisions that land in the municipalities' laps, there will be problems. So again, what does the government propose that the municipalities should give up their priorities in favour of this?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-282	Madam President, I would like Sometimes I think that the Swedish Democrats lack the situation in 2015, when they could blame all the problems in our society on a large refugee wave. It's not like that now. We have gained control of the situation that prevailed in 2015. The resources for municipalities are a priority made in this Parliament. There are always the Swedish Democrats on the side that are proposing tax cuts, especially for the well-advanced. With a Social Democratic-led government, we will always continue to invest in welfare activities in the municipalities.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-286	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Culture Amanda Lind. Football is the country's biggest public sport. It engages throughout the country and at all ages. Last summer the men's national team created football fever, this summer it is the women's national team's turn. Illegal phenomena must be combated regardless of where and in what context they occur. Something that should not be fought, however, is the audience, support culture one and commitment et for the team you love. Without any dialogue with the football associations, associations and supporters, the police have announced, among other things, matches without an audience as a planned measure. This risks damaging the elite football and thus also the widest football which plays an important role in our society, not least for our children and young people. We're going to have safe football games with great atmosphere. We create this together between associations, police and supporters. My question is what the Minister for Culture thinks of development, which risks damaging both the breadth and the elite football.
i-HrsEhGQcMyEHZ7rGB88wWM	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Johnny Cato Hansson! We have a very positive sports culture in Sweden today. For football and for all other sports, the support culture is obviously a key part of this. It's about everything from meeting and cheering on your team to various creative expressions in the stands. That is something which, of course, I fully endorse. Then is the assessment of what is dangerous in our arenas and how the police act to deal with these issues that also need to be addressed to the police. I think it is important that the order in the stands is handled in a wise and close dialogue between supporters, elite clubs, the sports movement and the police.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-292	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. However, we can see that this is not the case. Neither fans' associations, football associations, Swedish Elite Football nor the Swedish Football Association are allowed to participate in this dialogue. This is now happening between the Swedish Sports Federation and the police, which is something that has been criticised very much. My question is simply whether the government believes that there is a need to take some steps to stimulate the popular movement of broad and elite football.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-294	Madam President, I would like The situation that has been in recent months, with a generally escalating atmosphere between supporters and police officers, I have followed closely. I have also engaged in dialogue with several of the parties and will continue to do so. It is also important to say that the government has previously taken the initiative for a calm and secure culture in our stands. I think it is very important for dialogue between the parties to continue. It has resumed, and I think it is important that it continues and deepens.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-296	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Eriksson. In Sudan, we have been able to follow how the people, through non-violent rebellion, deposed the country's dictator Omar al-Bashir-Bashir, who was wanted by the ICC. Sudan is now governed by the transitional military government. The people have continued to protest. On June 3, the military responded by shooting directly into the crowds, killing over 100 people and hurting many more. According to several independent data, the military has received EU assistance to prevent migrants from moving to Libya and from there to an EU country. Already a year and a half ago, I took part in an interpellation debate on this and lifted the Left Party's call for the EU to stop using aid to prevent migration. The long-term budget is now being dealt with in the EU, and it is clear that one of the main objectives of aid should be to put an end to migration. Assistance shall be based on the needs of the beneficiaries, not on the political interests of the donors. What does Minister Eriksson intend to do to change the EU's approach?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-301	Madam President, I would like The situation in Sudan is extremely worrying. It has gone from peaceful demonstrations and talks and negotiations between the government and the opposition in order to bring about a new, civil rule to a situation of extreme violence. Many people have died, and both the government and the EU strongly condemn the situation that has been created. We believe that the current regime should be replaced by civilian rule. Care should also be taken to ensure that those who have resorted to violence are examined and sentenced afterwards. However, the information that says that EU aid has gone to the military is not correct. The studies we have carried out show something quite different.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-304	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise once again that one of the main objectives of EU aid is now to stop migration, even if they try to wrap it up by claiming that they want to overcome the root causes of migration. Sweden is one of the largest donors per capita. Swedish aid also has a very good reputation; it is of high quality. It gives us the opportunity to take our place and dare to steer Europe away from migration to provide assistance based on the needs of the beneficiaries. Does Minister Eriksson intend to ensure that this happens?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-306	Madam President, I would like Swedish aid goes to humanitarian aid and civil society. Nothing goes to the regime. We have also, over the last few years, repeatedly checked and had ongoing discussions to ensure that the rules on the Valletta Fund, which are the subject of the debate, are tightened and that no funds go directly to the government or to military operations. We've been guaranteed that. It is the German aid authority that is doing this, and we believe that we have been given sufficient guarantees for it.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-308	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Baylan. We see that the skills shortage today is one of the biggest problems in the Swedish labour market. The Stockholm Chamber of Commerce recently produced a report that suggests that we are losing 34 billion annually because of the companies' problems in attracting skills. At the same time, the deportation of skills, i.e. the expulsion of highly qualified, skilled people, is continuing due to minor mistakes. It is even the case that this is now receiving international attention; it comes here and reports on this type of expulsion. When you ask those who have come to Sweden to work if they would recommend Sweden as a country to come to work says seven out of ten no, among other things with reference to the uncertainty that this created.
i-BvMwQrVqPFkj7FMK15gJ2m	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jakob Forssmed, for an important question! This is not just a matter for the Stockholm region, but I would say that this picture is being shared across the country today. That is because we have historically high employment rates in this country today. We have by far the highest employment rate in the European Union. Although labour supply has increased, it is not enough. There are a number of things that need to be done. Jakob Forssmed pointed out one of them: to reform the system so that it becomes more legally secure and so that people who can contribute expertise can contribute to our society and build a life here and make it legally secure. According to the January agreement, we will work on this. But that's not enough. We need to reform upper secondary school so that it is better connected with the labour market regions. We also need to speed up the various fast track so that people who already exist in the country and who will stay in the country can take the jobs that are available. This is something that the government will prioritise during this term of office.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-315	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Of course, it is good to reform upper secondary school, but my specific question is when the government comes up with the proposal that has been promised for so long to resolve the situation so that we do not have to see these skills demonstrations. They affect individuals, they affect companies' ability to recruit key people and they are now also spreading a picture that Sweden is not a good country to come to if you are a highly qualified person who actually wants to work. I don't think that's good.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-318	Madam President, I would like Of course, it would not be good if that were the case. However, my picture is rather that there are a lot of people who want to come here and that there are a lot of people who want to stay here. I can reassure Jakob Forssmed that we have started the work. We will now, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, make sure to find solutions to this. But even with that done and with that said it will not be enough. The lack of competence and the fact that the Swedish economy and the Swedish business community are doing so well mean that we need to make further efforts to make this work better in the future.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-321	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs more companies. With the help of business, we can fix school and care for the elderly and reduce exclusion, as we get more resources the more people who work. An important factor is the difficult life as an entrepreneur. Any increase in the threshold for entrepreneurship, which makes it more difficult to dare to take the step or to develop one's business, is detrimental to the growth of the country. An entrepreneur must today comply with 1 200 laws and 2 200 regulations. 37 per cent of the country's entrepreneurs feel that the rules have become more complicated in the past year – there are more than in any previous survey. Although I am pleased that the January agreement will simplify micro-enterprises, my question to Minister Baylan is what concrete measures he intends to implement as the responsible minister for regulatory improvement.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-325	Madam President, I would like It is just as Arman Teimouri says: as part of the January agreement, we have an agreement to look through the rules and make simplifications for the smallest companies. My assessment is that this sector needs to be done for small, medium-sized and large enterprises. One of the main reasons for this is that we are currently in a very rapid technical transition and that we need to make a very rapid change in the climate. Then we have to look through our regulations and our processes-- are they suitable for the time we are in? My assessment today is that this is not the case. However, it is important to emphasise, Madam President, that we must also see what these rules stand for. Do they serve any purpose? Is there any value in them that we need to include for the future? It can be about environmental values, sustainability values, social values etc. Then you have to look at whether it can be done in a different way. I'm pretty sure you can. However, we have just begun this work, and I am looking forward to pursuing it – also together with Arman Teimouri.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-328	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Swedish Agency for Growth has published its annual report, which shows how companies' costs and competitiveness are affected by new and amended rules. The results show a continued net increase in administrative costs for enterprises. For 2018, it was 600 million. In these costs, costs related to the General Data Protection Regulation have not been taken into account. Will the Government ensure that business costs are reduced?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-331	Madam President, I would like The answer to the question is that we have already started such a dialogue with industry. We will do our utmost to ensure that the Swedish business community is competitive. However, I would like to complicate the matter somewhat. One reason why more regulations have been developed over the last ten years is the financial crisis and what followed. Many of the regulations have been created because there were shortcomings in the financial sector with the effects that arose. Recently, there has been a lot of focus on money laundering. We need to look at whether the rules are correct and how they are used so that there is the best possible development.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-334	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Nuclear weapons are the most inhumane and destructive weapons that have ever existed. Regardless of where these weapons are used, it has disastrous consequences for all mankind. Nevertheless, the use of nuclear weapons has become more real in recent years and, at the same time, the possibilities for disarmament seem to have completely stopped. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether there are any proposals to take steps on the road to disarmament. How will the conference held in Stockholm this week contribute to this?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-337	Madam President, I would like We brought together 15 countries that discussed how to use the most important framework that exists to control the proliferation and disarmament of nuclear weapons, namely the Non-Proliferation Treaty, the NPT. It was a good discussion that we need to press on, above all, the nuclear states. Here we gathered a number of countries that are ambitious and want something. At the next stage, we will ensure that we also pass on the points we have. We still think there's a chance for next year, when the NPT is to be reviewed. But we are in a dangerous situation; we have begun to talk about nuclear weapons as if they can be used and we are modernising our existing arsenal. That is why we need to be involved in creating public opinion against nuclear use and for disarmament. We have done so, and Germany has committed itself to organising the next meeting with the same group of countries.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-341	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Thank you for the initiative for the Disarmament Conference in Stockholm this week! The government's goal is a nuclear-free world, and I very much hope that Sweden will continue to be a leading country on these issues. I have a supplementary question. Does the Minister think that the 15 invited countries will be actively involved in disarmament?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-344	Madam President, I would like Yes, I do. These are countries that realize that it is two minutes to midnight, and we really need to do everything to reduce the risk of accidental nuclear war. I am therefore convinced that we will see a continuation of the process. This also applies to the discussion of a ban on nuclear weapons. We will be fully involved in that debate.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-345	Madam President, I would like I would like to put my question to Minister Wallström. There are ongoing negotiations on an international legally binding instrument under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction. The government has expressed its view that the negotiation process is of great importance and is in favour of the EU taking an active role in the forthcoming negotiations. If I understand correctly, we are in the middle of the process, with two meetings completed and two meetings left. In what way does Sweden contribute to an ambitious agreement to protect biodiversity in international waters?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-348	Madam President, I would like This is a process that has been going on in the UN since 2004. We think it is a good thing that we have now come to a situation where there is an intergovernmental conference because we are going to negotiate a new binding agreement. This should protect the marine marine environment in maritime areas outside national jurisdiction. We are negotiating as part of the EU, and our representatives are also working to ensure that Sweden's position has an impact on the EU position. We have also arranged various seminars in connection with the negotiations to discuss maritime governance and so on. Sida also supports the process. We will take an active part in the negotiations, and we will do so based on a view of the sustainable environment, the sustainable climate and the sea and the sustainable use of marine resources.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-352	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. We should not put the great challenges that exist today against each other because everything goes hand in hand. Yet there are huge numbers of people on the planet who are getting their food out of the oceans today and who will have to continue to get their food out of the oceans. My hope is that we will devote as much resources as we can to ensure that there is as good an agreement as possible so that the resources of the seas do not run down.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-355	Madam President, I would like That is absolutely correct. This is also a way of achieving one of the objectives of the 2030 Agenda agenda. We should be proud of what Minister Isabella Lövin has done as one of those who have been seen most in pushing the issue. I think we're all worried about all the plastic in the ocean and what happens to the fish. We need to take care of our marine resources.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-359	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask a question to Minister of Culture Amanda Lind. The former Minister of Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke wrote on DN Debate 2015 that the then model of film agreements would be broken up and replaced by state film policy. The film policy bill came in 2016. There were then great expectations in the industry to finally get answers to the film policy challenges that existed then – and that are now. Unfortunately, however, when the bill came, there was no response to the major challenges. The bill proposed that the cinema ticket's VAT rate should be increased from 6 per cent to 25 per cent. Statskontoret has analysed how the Film Institute has adapted its operations to the state funding and governance model. The analysis is worrying because it gives an idea of how the film industry in the various parts works today. That is why I have a question for the Minister.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-362	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for the question! It is the way in which a new film agreement and a new film policy work today that I understand the question refers to. Statskontoret's report gives a good picture of how the new film policy has provided better conditions for the Film Institute and the film industry to operate in Sweden and what areas of development there are. The other day I held a first high-level meeting with various actors in the film industry, just as the new film policy means, and I got a good picture of the situation there. Statskontoret believes that the new film policy has given more long-term financing conditions and better conditions to manage the business through fewer goals, which also rhymes well with the principle of arm's length. Then there are certain things that we shall continue to screw on, and during the parliamentary term we will come back to how and when we will evaluate film policy.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-366	Madam President, I would like Industry councils are worrying when you read the analysis and the report. I also have a question about production incentives. We are waiting for a proposal to be made. When's it coming?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-368	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp! The industry councils are just such a thing. The Film Institute has now, on behalf of the Government, a responsibility to see how, within the existing system of industry councils, certain small adjustments can be implemented that can create better conditions for industry councils. The various actors in the film industry have sent their films, and I think there is a constructive process forward. Production incentives are a matter for future budgetary work.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-371	Madam President, I would like On Monday came the public service bill, which many of us have been waiting for. Many suggestions – most, in fact – are more or less along the line of the investigation. On the other hand, the preliminary examination is controversial. The preliminary assessment is that a new post to be used for more than 12 months shall be approved by an authority directly under the Government. The government thus has the opportunity to determine the range of services that the public service broadcasters are to make use of. The government now wants to investigate the matter again and move it before it. Why do you do that? In addition, the Swedish government has repeatedly criticised other countries that it considers to regulate the content of public services in detail from the politicians' side. What, then, is the difference between Sweden's pre-test and the detailed management of public service content that it criticises other countries for?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-375	Madam President, I would like Yes, the new bill will provide better conditions for a more modern regulation of public services and, among other things, strengthened local news coverage. I'm very proud of the bill. It is also close to the Committee's work, as Angelika Bengtsson states. After all, ex-ante testing is a system that we have had. We are proposing some adjustments to that system; among other things, we are reducing the testable area. We thus give the public service companies greater freedom to work with innovation and development within, for example, their activities on their own platforms online. It creates better conditions for public service to meet the audience close and also a higher degree of freedom in the digital field. As regards the final decision for the ex ante review when new, significantly larger services outside the core business are introduced, we will look further at it. We have also announced this in the bill.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-378	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Amanda Lind! The government believes that it does not intend to regulate the content of public services in detail and that it will have an internal and functioning position on arm's length in these matters. But have we considered what could happen to such a system in a scenario where a future government wants to abuse this provision in order to regulate public service in detail?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-380	Madam President, I would like There must be no doubt whatsoever about the independence of public services. We fully share that view. That is also why this is an issue that we want to look further at. There was not enough evidence at this stage to be able to take a position on this particular issue. But we should remember that in the existing bill, the government does not go any further in any way governing public service. Rather, we are increasing the degree of freedom with this bill. Trafficking in human beings and the possibility of a period of reflection
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-382	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Ibrahim Baylan and concerns the lack of work against human trafficking and prostitution. The Government has signed the Council of Europe Convention on combating trafficking in human beings. Victims of prostitution are thus entitled to a period of reflection, i.e. an unconditional right of at least 30 days with support and recovery in order to determine whether the person can, will and dare to participate in a criminal investigation. During this period, no expulsion decision may be taken. Today, the only person who under Swedish legislation can apply for a reflection period is a preliminary investigator. In other words, the victim must have already decided to participate in a police investigation. Few take that step. You'd rather go underground or disappear into prostitution again. It's a kind of element 22. In other countries, several actors can apply for a period of reflection, such as health care, civil organisations and more. As a result, more victims can be identified and thus receive support and protection from society. Are there any thoughts in the government about amending the legislation so that more people can apply for a reflection period?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-387	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Vilhelmsson, for an important question! It is so important and detailed that I have to come back with a detailed answer because this is not in my area and I think it is a very important issue. So I would ask you to come back, if that's okay.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-389	Madam President, I would like I'm looking forward to that. I just want to say that the reason for my question is alarming reports from civilian organisations working with prostitutes today. Out of 122 directly exposed people last year, only around 25 received support and support from society. The Minister will remember that this spring we received proof that Sweden does not comply with international law when it was revealed in the DN that the border police had taken the crime victim in prostitution to custody and expelled them under the slogan of getting rid of the goods. That is what we need to address. I look forward to future work.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-393	Madam President, I would like As I said, I would like to return. That is an important issue. That's why you shouldn't go on and on when you don't know the question, and I can't do that.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-395	Madam President, I would like For the past 25 years, Turkey's military in regular attacks has crossed the border to the Kurdish part of Iraq with troops and air-bombed Kurdish villages. Turkey has violated Iraqi territory, killed hundreds of innocent Kurds and destroyed 140 villages. The civilian population lives in terror, and thousands are on the run. Their farms and livestock are destroyed. Turkey's behaviour in Iraqi Kurdistan, like Turkey's attack in Afrin, Rojava, cannot be regarded as anything other than acts of aggression and flagrant violations of international law. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is what Sweden will do within the UN and the EU and from Sweden to persuade Turkey to withdraw its troops and stop the bombings in Iraqi Kurdistan.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-398	Madam President, I would like This is an issue that we regularly discuss in this House, and I have no other factual statement than that given by Amineh Kakabaverh. This is an incredibly important factor in the region and, of course, in all our bilateral contacts but also in contacts via the EU. After all, we will be strongest if we stick together, all 28 countries in the EU circle, to put pressure on Turkey and on the statements we make. We continue to be active, also in our country descriptions. When we talk about human rights and abuse, this is very problematic. The development in Turkey itself is very problematic, not to mention the whole Kurdish question. We want to get back to negotiating properly on the Kurdish question, ideally by sitting down peacefully and talking about the future.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-401	Madam President, I would like On Tuesday, we – some members, including Anders from S – invited two journalists, Shewan Shirewani and Tara Tusen. They are journalists and human rights activists. They appealed to the parliament and the government: Stop Turkey's bombings! Turkey last bombed yesterday, and four innocent people were murdered. My question is whether the government and Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström will discuss this issue with Turkey in order to stop it. It's not PKK they're killing; it's innocent people.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-403	Madam President, I would like I wish I could tell you that I would personally stop the bombings. We must, of course, use all the political platforms and contexts we have. We must continue to put pressure on Turkey to act in accordance with international law and in a peaceful direction. We must also properly help those who are the victims of bombings and attacks. We will use all the political and diplomatic tools that we have in our toolbox to do so, and we will continue with our statements.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-406	Madam President, I would like Next year, there'll be elections in Taiwan. Just like Sweden, the country ranks high among the world's democracies. The social development of the country is outstanding. As late as May, for example, it became the first country in Asia to legalize same - sex marriages. We have good but unofficial relations with Taiwan, with a large exchange between our universities but also a lot of trade. As far as trade is concerned, there is potential for further growth. This, of course, would benefit both us and Taiwan and would further strengthen relations between our countries. Our trade policy in the EU is common, and the EU has put a lot of energy into free trade agreements with other countries, such as Japan and Canada, quite rightly. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: how does the government view the EU's prospects for a free trade agreement with Taiwan, and how does the government work for this in the EU community?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-410	Madam President, I would like Trade agreements are not really my home area. We have a Minister of Commerce to handle it. It is an important relationship, including trade, that we have with Taiwan. I am not the right person to ask one more question when it comes to an exact update on how the discussions are going. But we continue to be deeply involved, and we have excellent relations with Taiwan. I assume that this is being carried out actively in the European Union.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-413	Madam President, I would like It is good that we have excellent relations with Taiwan. We should have that, because when other countries violate human rights, we impose various types of sanctions on them. When Taiwan strengthens human rights in different ways, China makes it difficult for them, and then we and the European Union need to act. Strengthening trade not only means prioritising a strong economy but also prioritising strong human rights. I hope that the government will give this a higher priority in the European Union.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-415	Madam President, I would like Strengthening democracy is one of the overarching objectives of foreign policy during this term of office and, I believe, for a long time to come. This applies not least through free trade, through trade agreements and by involving ourselves in these countries, including in the example of Taiwan, where we favour the defence of democracy and human rights. I fully agree with this, and we intend to continue to be very active also in the European circle to ensure that this happens.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-417	Madam President, I would like The Culture School saved my life and has shaped me into who I am. This message adorned the Minister of Culture's dress at the award of the Polar Prize on Tuesday. It is a telling quote about how important cultural school is for young people's development. Last autumn, on a proposal from the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, the Riksdag decided to reduce the national contribution to the cultural school by 100 million. This is being reversed by the government with 50 million in the spring change budget, and I am the first to applaud it. But as a stockholmer, I am also provoked when the Minister for Culture's own party here in the capital withdraws as much from the cultural budget as the government adds to the spring change budget. The future plans are to continue to cut some SEK 50 million per year in the future. My question to the Minister is: Is the Green Party prepared to show that it is serious about its commitment to culture, and is the Minister prepared to do something about the capital's problems?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-420	Madam President, I would like I am very proud that we have reintroduced the cultural school grant that was withdrawn from the M-KD budget last autumn. I am also proud that we now have a national cultural school policy, for which my predecessor, in particular, was the driving force. I am surprised and concerned that Teres Lindberg brings municipal politics here to Parliament. As Minister of Culture, I take responsibility for government policy and nothing else.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-422	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Now I am not only a Member of Parliament but also a Stockholmer and a mother of three. I have several children in the cultural school, and my children come home crying and are concerned about the consequences for their leisure activities and about the reductions that are taking place. We have a green-bourgeois collaboration in Stockholm City Hall that has enormous consequences for 10 percent of the country's population, for so many people live in the capital. It is clear, then, that this issue also belongs in the Chamber of Parliament.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-425	Madam President, I would like As Minister of Culture, of course, I want to promote cultural initiatives throughout the country, in all municipalities and regions. However, I never speak about the budgetary priorities of individual municipalities, and I am very surprised that Teres Lindberg believes that I will do so in this House.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-427	Madam President, I would like There is a huge housing shortage in Sweden. At the end of May, Boverket presented the housing market survey for 2019. In it, 240 out of 290 municipalities indicate a deficit of housing. In Gothenburg, from which I come, the need is estimated to be up to 20,000 homes. The need for policy action to tackle this is enormous. During the spring, the government presented only one proposal aimed at facilitating construction. It is about reducing the requirements for building permits for patios. It is basically a good proposal, but it is difficult to see how we get more housing for young people or other people in need of housing with that change of law.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-430	Madam President, I would like The simple answer is yes. One should know that this is happening towards a fund that in recent years we have really got off the ground. This has happened because there is such a great demand that we hear it is, or even greater. This has also been done through a conscious policy by the previous government and the current one, and it is also part of the January agreement we have. One should be aware that although we are now seeing a certain slowdown, it is still a much higher level than it was in all eight years that we had a moderate government in the country. We will continue to work. The most important thing that we do is, I think, to continue investing in investment aid in order to create rental apartments, because although it is being built, it is not always the right type of housing. Sometimes they are even too expensive for many youths or families who cannot afford to pay that type of rent. I am surprised to receive this question from a moderate. After all, it is the same party that in its budget option, which went through in the Riksdag, withdrew the support for housing construction.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-434	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answer, although it was not exactly what proposals you intend to make this autumn. As I said, I come from Gothenburg, where the housing shortage is estimated at 20 000 homes. The risk is that we will have a whole generation of young adults and students who will end up outside the housing market. That is why it is positive that proposals are being promised this autumn, because, as I said, we are in danger of having a generation that ends up outside. My supplementary question is: Does the government intend to invite broad housing policy talks during the autumn?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-437	Madam President, I would like It is widely known that the government, now also as part of the January agreement, will continue with investment aid for rental rights. Because it is not about any housing, but it must be housing that people, not least young people, can afford. That is why the message to the Gothenburgers is that with this government there will be support for building rental apartments. I think it would be good and wise if we could agree on the long-term conditions for the housing market. An attempt was made during the last parliamentary term, but it was not possible at that time. I hope there can be another time.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-439	Madam President, I would like The protests against the government's fuel policy have increased in intensity recently. This anger is not strange, given that Sweden is a sparsely populated country where the car is by far the most important mode of transport. No other mode of transport comes near the car today. On the occasion of the interview with Magdalena Andersson, on what opinions differ in terms of what was actually said, is my question to the minister responsible: are there any plans to remove the automatic increases in fuel taxes today?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-441	Madam President, I would like The background is that we are a sparsely populated country and that the car means and has meant a lot to our way of life and our modern way of building our societies. Today we know that it also has many disadvantages, and one of the worst is pollution. But the worst of all is perhaps the greatest crisis in human history, namely climate change. I believe that the way forward for us must be to switch to domestic fuels and biofuels and to ensure electrification. This work is ongoing, although it will take time. For it cannot be reasonable in the long run that we should be dependent on, in this case, fossil energy and dirty energy from the Middle East and Russia indefinitely? He knows the answer to Martin Kinnunen's question well. It's a game that's going on here. The government has no proposals to make changes in any direction. The Swedish Parliament's decision, which the Swedish Democrats supported and voted through with their support for the M-KD budget, was a temporary reduction of six months. Without doing anything, it will be restored as it is.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-444	Madam President, I would like A game going on, says the Minister. He knows very well that the Swedish Democrats want to remove the list of taxes permanently. We also voted in favour of it in this House. Of course, we wish to see a future in which we run cars with electricity, but we are not there today. What people are upset about is, of course, that prices and taxes are increasing. All the instruments introduced by the government have led to increased fuel prices. Will this end, or will it continue?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-446	Madam President, I would like I lived for 16 years in the northern part of the country and worked over most of Norrbotten and Västerbotten. 40% of the country's surface is extremely sparsely populated. I know that the car may be needed and what this means for the economy. I still want to be clear. Here the Swedish Democrats pretend. They say things, but what they have actually done in this House is to vote in favour of an M-KD budget where indexation was removed only for six months. Without anything else happening, it will be restored as it is.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-449	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Lind a question. I am seriously concerned about the development of one of Sweden's most popular sports. Swedish football is doing very well in many respects right now, and then I'm not just talking about the 2 – 0 victory against Chile the day before yesterday. Swedish football is higher than in many years. The arrangements around the elite matches have improved, the audience numbers are increasing and the revenues are also increasing. What concerns me is the increasingly confrontative and harsh methods used by the police to stop pyrotechnics in Swedish football stadiums. Unfortunately, this year's ever-Swedish season has been framed with collective punishment, bans on large flags and offensive mass visas, where the police want to force non-profit match hosts to take the audience between their legs and their breasts. My question to the Government is therefore how she can contribute to protecting the positive gallery culture in Swedish football that we had previously and contribute to improved dialogue between Swedish football and the police.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-453	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Vasiliki Tsouplaki, for the question. Once again, I would like to stress how amazing it is to have people's commitment to a sport and how important the support culture is to the atmosphere of a sports arena. Then it is also obvious that there should be calm and secure situations. No matter who you are, you should be able to go to a football game without feeling afraid. We know from the past that dialogue between supporters' organisations, elite clubs, the sports movement and the police is a success factor. The police, of course, have a responsibility to maintain law and order in the arenas and to act against criminal offences. Then the challenge is how to do this in a way so that it does not affect the positive elements in the stands. I believe in the in-depth dialogue, which has also been resumed. It is a way forward in this.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-457	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his answer. I really want to impress on you that this is a serious situation we are seeing. For clubs, the new police tactics involve uncertainty and increased costs, and for the police, the events of the spring risk losing respect from thousands of matchgoers, who then bring that feeling into society. I hope that Amanda Lind, together with the Minister for Civil Affairs, can call for dialogue between the parties before the autumn season starts, and that we will see a return to safer and research-based methods.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-459	Madam President, I would like As I have also said before, I have been in contact with several actors in the sports movement and will continue to keep me informed about the ongoing work.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-460	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. The people's desire for freedom can never be suppressed. The people of Sudan have had enough. The people rose up forcefully and removed the old dictator, but behind the dictator there were other dark forces. We hear about how the brave women who go out protesting are being raped. We hear about how young people are tortured in the most bestial and terrible way. I am angry when I hear how the ruling military forces in Sudan behave, but also how foreign powers interfere, against the people's aspirations for democracy and respect for human rights.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-464	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. The government has strongly condemned the violence perpetrated by Sudanese security forces against peaceful demonstrators, with exactly the effects described by Anders Österberg. We have also called for an independent and transparent investigation to be set up. There is a consensus here, too, within the European Union. Once again, it is important that we stick together and that we also exert the necessary pressure on Sudan. Power needs to be handed over quickly and peacefully to civilian rule. We also think that the EU should strengthen its dialogue with the African Union, because that is usually where pressure can be exerted on Sudan, which is also important. Then, of course, we also use our embassy in Khartoum to promote dialogue with key actors and provide support to civil society and the opposition. We are therefore actively working on this issue and, of course, keeping a watchful eye on what is happening.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-467	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Eriksson. Planning snow clearance on an equal footing, so that you prioritise bus stops, roads to preschools and pedestrian streets is an example of how it can be when you think about how to use public funds in a way that is good for both women and men. Sida supports a project in Ukraine that promotes equal budget work and has had a great impact. Sida writes this on its website about a project in Ukraine supported by 70 million Swedish taxpayers' money. In other words, exports of feminist snow clearance as part of our aid policy. My question is whether the Government considers equal snow clearance to be good aid policy and well spent tax money.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-470	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magdalena Schröder, for the question! After all, it is appropriate to discuss Swedish development policy when we received the evaluation from the OECD yesterday, which shows that Sweden has one of the best and most effective aid policies in the world. It is not only that we are prepared to give quite a lot in relation to others in order to increase solidarity, but we are also effective. One of the most important points in the evaluation was that Sweden is pushing gender equality issues and a feminist foreign policy tougher and more systematic than any other country. To do snow clearance in a way so that even people who do not have a car but maybe walk, bike or for that matter go kick, as you can do in the north of Europe, is good. I don't see anything formally bad about it.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-473	Madam President, I would like It should shine out of the children's eyes, out of curiosity, out of expectation, out of desire and desire to learn. It ensures a good start in life. These are thoughtful words from a school manager who I had the pleasure of working with earlier. And yes, it shines out of many children's eyes in school today, but not out of everyone's. The school commission has sounded the alarm that the Swedish school's proud flagship about all pupils' equal access to education has lost control. We see that family background and socio-economic conditions still play a major role in students' learning outcomes. Therefore, the government's state contribution to an equal school is a welcome addition to increase equality and reduce segregation in school.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-477	Madam President, I would like Let me start with a personal ass. I think one of the finest things in this country is the ambition to treat all children equally and make sure they get a good start in life. Then a preschool, a primary school and a secondary school, where now almost all young people go, will be of high quality extremely basic. We know that Swedish schools are doing very well today. But it is just as Pia Nilsson says: Differences have increased. It is primarily the parents' educational background that has too much impact on the results. We have also seen increasing segregation for various reasons. It has contributed to the fact that the results are not as strong as we would like. It is against this background that we have introduced the multi-billion-dollar special state aid. All children should have access to it, but above all the children who have the most need. Today, far too few children experience the feeling of success in Swedish school.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-480	Madam President, I would like When the former Finnish Foreign Minister Timo Soini opened the Council of Foreign Ministers' meeting in Rovaniemi just over a month ago, it became clear immediately that the meeting would not be the success that the country holding the Presidency Finland had wanted. The agenda for the meeting was changed from the signing of a final declaration to the signing of a joint statement by the Foreign Ministers of the Member States. It is the first time since the Council was set up in 1996 that no final declaration has been made. It is clear that the outcome of the Rovaniemi meeting was a great disappointment. And it puts enormous pressure on the next presidency country, Iceland, to find the forms of the Arctic Council's importance in the future. We are facing major challenges in the Arctic, not least environmental. Against this background, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs how Sweden can further act to strengthen the Arctic perspective.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-483	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. We will continue to be a very active member of the Arctic Council. We defend the role of the Arctic Council in dealing, above all, with environmental and climate issues. These were the issues that caused this problem when we met in Rovaniemi. In fact, it was the United States that ran the line: climate change should not be mentioned here at all. That is why there was no declaration, which had been prepared and negotiated for a long time. We intend to review our Arctic strategy and revise it. We hope to be able to do so with the active participation of the Riksdag during the autumn. Of course, it is very important that we also review the security situation in the Arctic region. But we will really push these issues, because we will be most affected by everyone. Twice as fast climate change is taking place in the Arctic region. Together, we will be able to make sure that the Arctic is on the agenda.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-485	Madam President, I would like Beach cleaning is environmental work for real. 220 000 cubic metres per year are dumped in the North Sea. 8,000 cubic metres wash up on Bohuslän's beaches. It's 1 cubic meter per hour, 24 hours a day, all year round. The Bohus municipalities have received 13.5 million from the government for beach cleaning, but it is far from certain that the money can be used to the full. The government's regulatory problem means that the money can only be used from April to October. It concerns the West Coast Foundation, which does not understand why it should be limited in time. Beach cleaning needs to be done for a longer period. It depends on storms, winds and vegetation. In addition, it affects the breeding period.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-488	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the important question. This is a very detailed question that belongs to another department, so I would like to come back to you. I am sure there are good reasons for this, but I do not know them.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-490	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Ibrahim Baylan a question. In Sweden there is a world-leading life science research. We need to strengthen it further in order to meet the challenges of the framework period in health care. With rapid technological development, this means that we can find new solutions for improved health and quality of life. This work began last year by setting up a life science coordinator and setting up a life science office to strengthen the work. My questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs are: How does the government today work to strengthen the conditions for the Swedish life science sector? How can we continue to be world leaders in life science? And how can we create the conditions that companies need to choose to invest in Sweden?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-493	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Monica Haider, for a very important question! Yeah, right now, amazing things are going on in the medical and life science field. It is about the development of so-called biological drugs and individualised healthcare. It is also more and more of AI and digitization that comes into this area. As a result, opportunities grow. It is clear that Sweden will be involved in driving this development. We are already a fairly large nation. Historically, everyone knows about the large companies that we have had but also the successful research. This has been one of the starting points for the work we are now doing – the Ministry of Enterprise, Education and Social Affairs together with the industry. This means that we are now increasing investment. We make sure to increase collaboration. We will also come up with a strategy in the autumn that has been requested by the industry and developed together with the industry, so that Sweden can continue to be involved in driving this for human health but also for jobs and growth in our country. It's extremely central.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-496	Madam President, I would like My question is put to Minister Baylan. It is well known in Sweden that foreign leagues are here to ravage and break into villas as well as construction companies, where they steal tools. It is also well known that they steal a lot of boat engines, especially here in the Stockholm region. They steal both on laps, at night, and in our unattended harbours – there are plenty of them out in the intersection. I live on Blidö myself. Last fall they took 20 Yamaha engines in one night. We have limited control over how goods are taken out of the country and our ports. Only 2% of the goods that expire are checked. This means that in principle there are swing doors at our borders and above all in our ports. Customs does not have the authority to carry out routine checks on vehicles unless there is reasonable suspicion.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-500	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell Jansson, for the question! Yes, of course this is a well - known picture. We should be fully aware that many of these leagues, whether boat engines or housing break-ins, which were also very common in the past, have been given opportunities because we have wanted together to have freedom for people, goods and other things when it comes to crossing the borders of the European Union. But of course this is one of the downsides. Both the previous government and the current government have strengthened border controls in recent years. We also see in some places that it has affected these theft leagues. That work will continue, because of course we shall not accept this.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-502	Madam President, I would like I am also addressing Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. Perhaps my colleague Kjell Jansson and I have not really consulted on this issue. But this is very important, so I would also like to ask you a question about boat engines. Unfortunately, the trend is that this is increasing. In 2018, they saw that there were as many as 2,500 boat engines stolen in Sweden. It tends to increase. As it is now, there are limited customs powers when these boat engines are taken out of the country. In fact, they are legally removed. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is what we can do about this. We need to reduce boat theft. What increased powers can we give customs so we do not have to see all the boat engines taken out of the country?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-506	Madam President, I would like In addition to the answer I just gave, I think we need to start at the other end. It is clear that it is important to try to prevent exit from the country. But I think it is even more important to try to prevent these crimes from being committed at all. Then, of course, investments in our justice system – tougher penalties but also our target of 10,000 more police workers – will be extremely central. We now see, after a number of years when it has not been the case, that there are many more who both apply for police training and are also admitted to these training courses. It is clear that, in addition to what I have said about border controls and strengthening them, it is also extremely important to try to prevent these crimes and strengthen the police.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-509	Madam President, I would like It has been a long debate and a great deal has been said. I must say that I am very grateful that we have Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson here today. In all the civil committee debates on housing policy, we have not seen the smoke of our Minister for Housing. I therefore think it is nice that the government is involved in the debates of the committees. Morgan Johansson said in his speech that he wants to uproot the gang structure with its roots. I can't help but agree. I hope that Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson will take on board the Moderates' proposal to double the penalty for gang-related crimes, which we believe would have a deterrent effect and also remove these elements from our cities and towns and curb recruitment to these groups. On today's dossier, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson highlighted social measures as a way of tackling the problems we have, including exclusion areas. But I wonder, Madam President, is it a social measure to make a group that is currently exposed – those that are exploited by the organised crime that involves selling rental contracts – to criminals? Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson also said: If they earn their money on the black trade in rental contracts, we'll strangle this. I can't help but agree. It has to be strangled. This can't happen. But the buyer of a rental contract doesn't make any money out of this. I wonder again how the criminalisation of a weak group can be a way to strangle those who earn the money.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-513	Madam President, I would like With regard to criminal law for gang crime, which Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby just mentioned in passing, I do not think there is a Minister of Justice who has tightened the penalties as much as I have during my period. I don't mind. But you have to know what you're doing, and the Moderates probably haven't really thought about their proposal. If we were to do what the Moderates want, it would mean, among other things, that if a man beats his wife, he should only have half the penalty compared to if a gang-criminal beats another gang-criminal. Actually, I don't think that's quite reasonable, to be honest. If you are going to tighten the penalties, it is much better to go on the crimes involved – assault, theft or something else – instead of choosing this more constructed path. When it comes to what we are discussing today, of course, there is no social measure to do in this way. There are many other social measures that need to be taken – investments in social services, for example, and of course also in both schools and the labour market in the areas we are talking about. However, if we are to have an effect on these black markets, we must, in my opinion, go to the seller and, indeed, the buyer too, or else we will not have any effect. Now the Moderates say: We do find it reprehensible, but we do not want it to be criminalised. I would like to say that this is, of course, a form of corruption. One mixes and fiddles with the system and sort of bribes oneself past a queue that you would otherwise have to stand in. I think that's unjust. If you allow this kind of fiffle to spread, it will strike at the legitimacy as such in all our social systems.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-517	Madam President, I would like On the part of the Moderates, we want to get to those who make money from vulnerable people. That doesn't mean we think it's okay to buy a lease. However, there are civil law measures in this proposal which we think should be tried first before criminalising vulnerable people. Morgan Johansson said in his speech addressed to the Moderates that when the Moderates take over a municipality, the first thing they do is sell out the leases. I don't know if you've talked to your colleagues in Luleå. The first thing that happened when the Social Democrats in Luleå gained their own majority was that they sold 4 000 apartments from their municipal housing company to another social democrat. I guess I think you should clean your own house before you start going after other people's. But this was just a small trifle in the context. This is actually about the fact that today we have a lack of rental apartments, not so much about who owns them. In the past, Madam President, we have heard Ola Möller say in the debate both that there are enough rental apartments and that more rental apartments need to be built. I wonder how Morgan Johansson views today's proposal. I am of the opinion that more rental apartments need to be built. More housing needs to be built in general. How can criminalisation of vulnerable people increase housing construction in Sweden?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-521	Madam President, I would like When it comes to sales, it is clear that you can always find some Social Democratic municipality that also makes sales. Sometimes you need to re-form; that's how it can be. But there is no party that is clearer than the Moderates in that this should be done systematically. As soon as you get into a council, you do. It is enough to look at the municipalities that have been governed by the Moderates for a very long time. There's no commons left. In practice, you have got rid of all the public housing companies. This is particularly true here in Stockholm. As soon as you get to power here, you'll sell out a large part of the property stock that exists. It is systematic and part of your ideology that you want to get rid of rental housing that the public owns. Actually, you can't get away from that. Ola Möller didn't say there were enough rents. He said that there were rental apartments after Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby had a formulation that almost indicated that there was nothing to rent. There are rental apartments, but there are not enough. We need to build more. This proposal does not solve the housing shortage. There's only one way to get to the housing shortage, and it's building more. Last year, we built over 22,000 rental apartments. How much did the alliance government build in its day? In 2014, when it was built most, you managed to reach a little over 10,000 rental apartments. Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby stands here and says that we have failed when we build twice as many rental apartments as the Moderates did. What is to be said, then, that the Moderate Government did during its time? What we have done during our period is that we have doubled the construction. Investment support means that we will continue to be at very high levels. That is the solution to the housing shortage.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-528	Madam President, I would like This proposal is about more options for tenants. The Government proposes a new model for agreements between tenants and landlords, which gives them greater freedom to agree on compensation for increasing or reducing the landlord's responsibility for the standard of the apartment, so-called optional or non-election. Madam President, I would like Of course, we Moderates have nothing against this – quite the contrary. As we have said earlier in this House, every time the government succeeds in squeezing out some concrete proposal to make it better in the housing market, we are moderates behind it. What is a little special about this particular proposal is that only two parties in this House are fully behind it, without having reserved or made any specific statements, and it is actually the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats. All other parties, including government parties, have made specific statements or reservations. I call for approval of the joint reservation of Moderates and Christian Democrats 1. We do not think it appropriate to give a negotiating obligation to the tenant organisations. Madam President, I would like I do not know if it is the irony of fate that Aftonbladet has made a major review of the leading tenant organization in Sweden. We have read in Aftonbladet that Tenant's recruiters receive millions of salaries, luxury trips, whisky tastings and massages. This is an excellent example of corporate Sweden, where the Social Democrats have confused their interest organisations with power by giving benefits to their own organisations. In Aftonbladet's review, which has been followed up by among others the newspaper Hem & Hyra, we have seen this example of an extensive abuse, I would call it, where you travel for almost SEK 3 million. Why, then, can this be done? Well, it's because the legislator has simply given power to the Tenant's Association. That is exactly what we Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats, are turning against. We think that the option and the opt-out should be made by the tenant and the landlord agreeing on it. It is the simple, straight and healthy system. Madam President, I would like I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-533	Madam President, I would like The bill, based on an agreement between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals, proposes a new model for agreements between tenants and landlords on the standard of the apartment. The starting point is that the parties should have greater freedom to agree on compensation for the landlord's responsibility for the apartment's standard being increased or reduced, so-called optional or out-of-election. According to the Government, the proposal will contribute to a greater choice for tenants in the design of their own home. Of course, I welcome the fact that tenants have more influence over their housing. Tenants' ability to influence the apartment's quality, equipment and consumption costs needs to be strengthened. Like the Tenants' Association, however, I see that there is a risk of several problems with the government's bill. There is a great risk that the tenant will have to pay double for the choices made, which can undermine both the utility system and consumer protection. As the option increases the use value of the apartment, after ten years with the new regulation, the landlord can go to the rental board and request that the standard increase be included in the rent, although the tenant has probably already paid off the landlord's costs of acquiring and installing the option. This means that the tenant will have to continue paying for something that may already be paid off through a rent increase. That, in my opinion, is not reasonable. There must be a reasonable payment for the options made. Tenants should not have to pay twice for options they agree with the landlord. Similarly, there is currently no uniformity in the prices to be applied for different options. It is common for landlords and Tenants' Associations to reach agreements on the recommended price for various options, so-called price lists. However, the way to charge for options varies between different landlords and has changed over time. The lack of uniformity and systematic choice price lists can contribute to large price differences, which affect tenants. Madam President, I would like Let me give you an example. Someone goes to the Elgigant and buys a TV or a dishwasher on payment for five or ten years, and signs a contract for it. When, in accordance with the contract, you have paid for the TV or dishwasher, Elgiganten calls and says: Unfortunately, you must continue to pay even though you have already paid off the full amount. Madam President, I would like I do not think any of us in this House would agree to that. Then why should the tenants agree to this? For example, if they choose a dishwasher and pay it off for ten years, the landlord still believes that they should continue to pay for the same dishwasher. There must be a reasonable limit. This cannot be acceptable and reasonable in any way. I know that none of us in this House would accept that. In conclusion, the Government's proposal risks undermining both the utility value system and consumer protection, especially in places with housing shortages. In view of the fact that a majority of the country's municipalities report a lack of housing, this problem may become widespread. Madam President, I would like In order to ensure that tenants are never forced to pay twice for the choices made, thereby counteracting the erosion of both the utility system and consumer protection, a new fourth paragraph of Section 55(b) of the Tenancy Act would have to be introduced, which reads as follows: ..................................................... This is reasonable. The lessor cannot be credited that amount. The tenant has already paid for the election. Why should the tenant have to pay for it one more time? Why should it be part of the value of the apartment? It doesn't make sense. However, the proposal does not contain such a provision or any other proposal to ensure that the utility system and consumer protection are maintained. Although I welcome a greater choice of accommodation for tenants, I believe that the shortcomings mentioned in the proposal are so serious that Parliament should reject the proposal. That is why the motion in the report should also be rejected. I very much hope that you will come to your senses and realise that there is a shortcoming in this legislation. There's a flaw in the system. I think we all agree on that, and something needs to be done to remedy the deficiency. It cannot be fair to continue paying for goods that have already been paid under contract. I therefore support the Left Party's reservation 2.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-545	Madam President, I would like Some government proposals get you really annoyed, but sometimes there are gold grains that you think are basically good. The proposal we are discussing now, to give the tenant and the property owner greater opportunity to make agreements about raising or reducing the rent depending on the election or option, is basically a piece of gold. This increases the tenant's opportunities and freedom, which we believe is good in the long term for both the tenant and the property owner as well as for the market. It is strange, however, that in a reform of freedom, which I still feel that this is to some extent, there are suspenders. Instead of trusting and testing the new system that you want to create, you want to minimise the risk of error, which means that there will only be half a reform. This is achieved by not giving the tenant and landlord the full responsibility but requiring that the matter be negotiated with a tenant organisation. I don't understand why you have to negotiate with a tenant organisation if the landlord and tenant agree. That should be enough. If you as a tenant feel that you want help and support from a tenant organisation, it is of course up to the individual tenant to receive it, but creating a system based on the obligation to negotiate seems to me to be a step backwards in the reform of freedom, rather than a step forward. The Christian Democrats and the Moderates have a joint motion in which our proposal is that this obligation be removed. Instead, it should be up to the individual to decide. With this, I would like to endorse reservation 1.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-549	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal as a whole and therefore rejecting the motion. We note that the majority of the committee supports the Government's proposal for a new model for agreements between tenants and landlords on the standard of the apartment. The proposal, which introduces changes to, inter alia, the Land Code, will help tenants to have greater choice in the design of their own home. The starting point is the proposal that the parties should have great freedom to agree on a remuneration for raising or lowering the standard of the apartment in any respect. After 10 years, the agreed remuneration shall be treated in the same way as the rent for the apartment otherwise and shall then be included in the rent board's examination of what is a reasonable rent for the apartment. This will result in landlords to a greater extent offering tenants the opportunity to adapt the apartment according to needs and tastes. In the case, it is also proposed to strengthen the protection of tenants in case of conversion to a right-of-occupancy apartment by requiring a right-of-occupancy association that acquires an apartment building to inform all tenants of the acquisition. The bill is based on an agreement between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals and is part of the January agreement. In the committee's view, a new model of election and election should be designed in such a way as to minimise the risk of negative consequences. The committee has received comments from both the Tenants' Association and individual property owners, and those opinions differ. That is why the Green Party, together with the Social Democrats, has a special opinion in this report, Madam President. We are in favour of systematic leasing and work to ensure that the tenant's values of, among other things, standard and location should be reflected in the rental arrangement. The current legislative proposal for a model agreement between tenants and landlords is a tool in this work. We note that the studies that form the basis of the new regulations have some years on their back, while the housing market is constantly evolving. After 10 years, optional and out-of-choice options are included in the use value assessment basis, and it is important that this transition is closely followed in order to ensure a good balance between the parties. In the event of any indication that the regulations have disadvantages for either party, the optional and non-election system should be reviewed. In order to ensure that consumer protection does not deteriorate, we will closely monitor developments in this area over time and, if necessary, take the necessary initiatives on this issue. However, we have taken the view that it is better that we do something now than that we do nothing at all on this issue.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-558	Madam President, I would like I mentioned in my speech how unfair this system can be to many people. That is why I would like to ask the same question as I asked earlier in the speaker's chair. If Emma Hult buys a white product, such as a dishwasher, and pays for it for ten years – would she want to continue paying for the same white product after she has paid for it, if the law requires it? Does Emma Hult think it is a reasonable order to continue paying for a product that has already been paid in accordance with the agreement?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-560	Madam President, I would like I am happy if the white product lasts for ten years, and after fifteen years it probably needs to be replaced. That is the challenge in this. It does not have to be unfair, and I hope that we will be able to see and identify which parts need to be adjusted in the future. But as I said: We make the assessment that it is better that we go forward with this bill and bring about these changes to give both tenants and landlords the tools that are needed. We, too, can see that there are a lot of dangers in things that may arise in the future, but we still make this assessment and support this proposal at the moment.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-562	Madam President, I would like What we are talking about here is an issue that is not really very complicated. The Tenants' Association has been very clear that this is deeply problematic in terms of the double payment. It is also problematic precisely because it can undermine the utility value system, and it is also a consumer protection issue. There are very clear arguments, as I mentioned. We as ordinary Members and citizens would never accept this, and that is why I do not think it is reasonable for us to put it on other people – in this case tenants. In Sweden we live in it is often about low income earners, and many think that the rents are very high. Should we then make an adjustment that allows landlords to add a sum to the value of the apartment or dwelling that is not supposed to be there? Does Emma Hult think that this is the right way to go and the correct way to act? Can this not be changed, as the Tenants' Association has pointed out, is deeply problematic?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-564	Madam President, I would like I would have liked the Tenants' Association to have come into a slightly earlier stage with its views. It would also have been easier to include them in the handling of the case. I note, however, that I believe that several of us Members live in rental law and that we too will be affected by these things. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that for me the right to rent is not important for certain income groups in society; for me, the right to rent is a form of housing in which anyone can live. We need rentals for all groups. I also said in my speech that, in order to ensure that consumer protection does not deteriorate, we will closely monitor developments in this area over time and, if necessary, take the necessary initiatives on this issue. That's what we're behind.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-567	Madam President, I would like Normally, when the government presents a bill, the government parties may not usually make specific statements and mark against the government. In fact, it may be a sign that this legislation is perhaps a bit shaky and shaky, but we will have to follow developments. My question to the Green Party is, of course, about exactly what my colleague Larry Söder and I raised in our speeches. Why does the Green Party think it is important to give the Tenants' Association that negotiating mandate instead of doing this straight and simple, that is to say, let it be an agreement between the landlord and the tenant?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-569	Madam President, I would like I think that in this case the special opinion should be seen as an explanation of vote: we basically think that this is a good proposal, but we also want to be very clear that we will be following this very closely. The investigation has a number of years on its neck. It was the previous alliance government that put it forward, and we think the initiative is good. However, we need to monitor developments closely. When it comes to Tenants' Association, we are looking at how we will implement free renting in new production. Then we will have a different order in the rental market, but in the order we have today the Tenant Association is a party. I know that there are lots that do not want this, but in the order we have today the Tenants' Association is a party that we believe should be included in the existing system of rental rights.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-572	Madam President, I would like Does Emma Hult not see a concern about the widespread abuse that may occur in this system? We have Aftonbladet's review this week, and we have Hem & Hyra, where the editor-in-chief has even written an angry leader: ..................................................... This means, therefore, that the legislator, with one hand, gives benefits to an organisation that is close to the Social Democrats, and that is being used to the full. What we legislators could do is to be open and transparent and not give corporate Sweden the benefits that could exist for S related organisations in the legislation. The Green Party is not part of that labour movement, so you may well be free. That is one of the arguments. Our main argument, of course, is that it should be simple and honest in the new system. The landlord and the tenant can settle this themselves. Why complicate it unnecessarily and thus increase the cost of the system?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-576	Madam President, I would like I did not understand that Lars Beckman asked any questions in his speech, but I note that we will follow this work. This could be one of the things we need to talk about. It will certainly have an impact on the day we have free renting in new production. Then we need to adapt the regulations.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-577	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the proposal in the report. Just as Robert Hannah very wisely said earlier today in this House, not all parts of the January Agreement are loved. However, the political purpose of the agreement is higher than that we should run around and think that every single point is the best we have. This is probably one of those points to which we Social Democrats are essentially rather lukewarm. There is a reason why this legislation was not implemented during the last parliamentary term. However, since there are parties in the January agreement that think this is important, we have not held back. Basically, you can see it positively. This could be a support where systematic renting does not work. Then it may be good to have this in essence. It can certainly also develop the rental right as a form of housing in some way. The negative is precisely the risks that have been highlighted here. What happens when the ten-year period expires? Emma Hult has well explained our point of view on this matter. We see the risk, and that is why we have also made a special opinion. None of us in here is a prospector or a prophet who can see what happens in ten years. We see a risk. But it is not by higher power that it is so feared, and so it is important that we follow it. A great deal is also happening in this area. Ola Johansson usually lifts up everything that is in the January agreement, and it is an area of transformation. Let's see. In ten years' time, we can find ourselves in a completely different situation where this legislation is severely obsolete, and therefore there is no time to worry too much about it now. Our specific opinion shows that we see the problem and the dangers. We are very pleased with that.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-585	Madam President, I would like It is not the first time today that we hear one of the JÖK parties, i.e. the parties of the January Agreement, say: In fact, we are not behind this policy, but... I am becoming seriously concerned about the consequences for democracy in Sweden. It seems that none of the parties wants to implement the January agreement, whether it concerns the military tax, changes in labour law, more free renting or, as in this case, free choice for tenants. I think it is worrying from a democratic point of view. It is about respect for us as elected representatives and as politicians. It's almost embarrassing. I would like to ask you a specific question. I assume that the honourable Member Ola Möller has also read Aftonbladet's and Hem & Hyra's spectacular review of the Tenants' Association. Why is it so important for the Social Democrats to give the Tenants' Association the power that it means in legislation when they are obviously unable to manage the trust they have gained from the legislator?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-589	Madam President, I would like It is that we have freedom of association here in the country – freedom to organise ourselves. There are not only individual freedoms but also other rights. People living in rental apartments have chosen to organise themselves together. We Social Democrats believe that this is an extremely important democratic foundation. This also means that the members own their organisation. If they are not satisfied with their leadership, and I can understand that one can think about it, it is up to them to retain this leadership and what they want to do with their organisation. That's not what I'm gonna do. I'm not gonna stand here and interfere. In the same way, we have not selected the Tenant Association as the specific party. Should there be another organisation and claim to negotiate and they are larger and have that possibility, that is what is happening. There are indeed places in the country where such initiatives take place. Therefore, trying to say that it is anti-democratic when people voluntarily organise themselves is really dangerous. Then Lars Beckman is on the same line as we have heard in previous debates here, namely that we should introduce regimes that do not belong in a democracy. I am extremely proud of many parts of the January agreement. I'm proud of the welfare billions. I'm proud of the investment support. I am proud of free work clothes for those who work in the care of the elderly. I am proud that we are investing in a green tax exchange. I am proud of the historic investment in rail traffic that has taken place in this country. There's more that I'm proud of. I am proud that we have ensured that Lars Beckman and his party colleagues did not come to power in this country. Then it would have been taken off both on the rent issue and on our taxes. The birth tax had faded in comparison with what the Moderates would like to do with the taxes.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-595	Madam President, I would like There is probably one group that might have been very disappointed if we Moderates had come to power: Sweden's richest, which probably would not have had the military tax removed. I guess it's your new core pickers. Madam President, I would like No one is questioning freedom of association. It's great with the Villa owners' Federation, Tenants' Association, kennel clubs and Coop. What we Moderates and Christian Democrats are opposed to in our reservation is, of course, that in this case the legislator gives power to the Tenants' Association. However, I fully understand that the Social Democrats do not see any problems in favouring their own organisations. You've done it since you were formed. It's a good corporate tradition you have. I am more surprised that the other parties in the January agreement are in favour of this. I am surprised that the Green Party believes it is important to benefit S's related organisations. But we will have the opportunity to listen to Ola Johansson eventually and hear how he motivates it. As I said, freedom of association is great. The Tenants' Association and the members get to organize themselves best they want. I understand very well that the members of the Tenants' Association are cursed now that they have read Aftonbladet's and Hem & Hyra's review, and I would like the legislator – the majority of this Assembly – also to see the risks of giving power to an organisation that is clearly unable to take the confidence through this proposal. I'm sorry about that.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-600	Madam President, I would like The Swedish model is based on free parties who negotiate with each other. We Social Democrats do not interfere there in what party it is. Once again, there would be another party and claim the negotiating mandate on the rental market, they would of course have to take that hearing. But now it is that people in free elections have chosen to organize themselves in the Tenants' Association, perhaps Sweden's largest popular movement, and they say: We stand up for our right together in a free choice. I can never have any comments on that. Then it is interesting to benefit their own, given that during their possession of power some time ago, the Moderates introduced unlimited profit withdrawals into welfare, the ISK account, so that those who can save a great deal of their equity in shares receive flat-rate reductions of their capital taxes, and tax evasion is something that only benefits your friends. Then it's a bit strong to stand and accuse us of favoring our own. In view of previous discussions on black rental contracts and Östermalmstants paying 21⁄2 million for a rental contract, which you think is a bit reprehensible but that we should not punish them, the question is whether you should have as high a tailline as the honourable Member Lars Beckman has.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-603	Madam President, I would like I will try to bring the discussion back to what it is about. I think that is basically a good proposal. I think it is fundamentally good to give the tenant more freedom to decide how to live and the opportunity for the tenant and landlord to agree. My problem with this is that you put on an overcoat. It is simply obliged to have a tenant organisation that is involved in negotiating this. I think it would be enough for the tenant and the landlord to agree. If the tenant wants help from a tenant organisation, fine, of course you should get it if you wish. However, if both of these parties are in agreement in a negotiating position, I think that would be enough. I believe that the report would benefit from such a development. What is the argument of the Social Democrats for having this overcoat, that is, the duty to negotiate?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-607	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Larry Söder! I am convinced that the Swedish model has served Sweden well. It's working. It is therefore important that it is free to organise, and the tenants do so. It's not an overcoat. If those who live in the houses choose to join an association and say that they want to negotiate collectively, we think it is better than putting a completely different balance of power in the rental market. The balance of power would be upset if the tenants could not be helped together to strengthen their power against a party, which in this case has virtually all the power. As a single tenant, you are extremely exposed if you have no one behind your back. It is not an overcoat, as it is described, but it is because the tenants themselves want to negotiate. They have made that decision, and it is possible to set their own rents today. You don't have to have the tenant association, and Larry Söder knows that very well. But since the tenants realize their disadvantage – they are not able to stand a chance as an individual if you are not very strong in capital – they have used the freedom of association, joined the Tenants' Association and said: This is our representative. In this way they have the opportunity to have some kind of power in relation to property owners and landlords.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-610	Madam President, I would like When it comes to rents in general, I have no problem with the existence of a strong counterpart to Real Estate owners, which is also an organisation. They're equal. An individual tenant who wants to make an election or an election should be able to choose to negotiate with the landlord and agree on what it should be and on the price. What the report really says is that this negotiation is not quite okay. Instead, you have to have a tenant organisation that is involved in the discussion. Although the tenants agree with the landlord and may even be satisfied with the result, someone else will negotiate for them. I'm perfectly okay with letting tenants who voluntarily choose to take the help of a tenant organisation do so. But this actually means removing power from the tenant. What you give the tenant the opportunity to do is to make the elections and the elections. But the outcome of the hearing is decided by someone else. That's where the problem lies for me. The Swedish model itself – no problem, fine – but give the individual tenant freedom and the opportunity to decide over their rental apartment if it has the opportunity to do so. But if the tenant doesn't want to do it, fine, let a tenant organization do it. But let the tenants decide that. That is the freedom of this reform, which I think is good but which you are taking away. You're moving forward one step back one step. I wish this part had been removed. Then this reform would have been great.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-614	Madam President, I would like I do not share that view. We do not think this is a problem, because we think it is important to balance power. If you live completely alone as a tenant in an apartment somewhere and agree with the landlord without any other interference about a rent increase, no one will prosecute you for it. It works. You can do that today. This legislation provides support where it does not work, and where it does not work, it is extremely important that we get parties who can negotiate with each other to protect the balance of power between tenants and landlords. Basically, I do not think that this is a problem, but that is where we differ in opinion. What I find regrettable, Larry Söder, is that in your objective argumentation here, which I still appreciate and you know that, you are aligning yourself with a moderate argumentation that is not very roomy. From a moderate point of view, we want to threaten freedom of association and say that it is not okay to join together in voluntary organisations and make demands jointly. It's boring, Larry Söder, because you have a better entrance into this than your friends, which I'm a little worried about in which direction they're going.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-620	Mr President, I would like to This proposal is about giving tenants and landlords greater freedom to agree on options regarding apartment standard. This may include equipment and maintenance of the apartment, for example. The Swedish Democrats fully welcome this proposal because it gives more freedom to influence the design. No one here really sees anything negative about this, which I am pleased about. These options can entail large costs for both the current tenant and future tenants, which is why we think it is good that there is a counterparty to the landlord when the costs of the elections are to be negotiated. The Swedish Democrats therefore support this government proposal. Tenants and tenant organisations can also agree on a recommended price for various options, so-called price lists. If the landlord and the tenant stay within the scope of this price list, the landlord does not need to negotiate the additions in particular, which is of course positive in order to enable a good system for this proposal. I support the committee's proposal.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-624	Mr President, I would like to I note that this is the second time the Swedish democrats in the Civil Committee have joined the common C-L-MP-S policy. This time there is legislation on the obligation to negotiate with tenant organisations. Why do the Swedish Democrats think it is so important to give corporate Sweden this opportunity through legislation? In a change of line we heard my colleague Larry Söder describe very well why it would be good to have a freer order where tenants and landlords themselves get along. If they do not agree, it should of course be possible for the tenant to contact their organisation. Why do the Swedish Democrats think it is so important to give this power to the Tenants' Association?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-627	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lars Beckman for the question concerning my speech and the proposal. The Swedish Democrats see no disadvantage in strengthening tenants' position in negotiations on such additional costs. Especially when it comes to future tenants, it is good to have this system. It can hardly be a disadvantage to have a strong party behind them in such negotiations. We can of course have opinions about organisations on the right and left. But if we are about to mark against the Tenant Association or other organisations, we must mark politically against a lot of people, and it does not feel like that is the system we are going to build in the legislature. I would like to compare it with the Swedish model. There is little difference between the model we have for agreements between employers and workers' organisations, that is, the social partners, and this model. On the basis of this justification, I see no problem with this system. Mr President, I would like to I would like to comment on Lars Beckman's statement that we support the government for the second time on a matter. That's no wonder. The Moderates have supported the government on many issues, so I do not understand the problem that the Swedish Democrats support the government on an issue where we feel the same. We can take the Migration Agreement and the Instructions Act, which means that municipalities give priority to newly arrived refugees. We can take fixed-term building permits, which creates more exclusion areas. We can take the compulsory municipal housing purchases. All of this the Moderates supported the government in. These are issues that I find more remarkable than the issue we are discussing today, and in these you seem to have a very large consensus.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-634	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates are in favour of freedom of association. The Moderates are for homeowners to organize themselves. I'm a member of the Villa Owners' Federation myself. When I lived in an apartment in Boden, I was actually a member of the Tenants' Association. Basically, it is a good suggestion that it should be easier with elections. But it is easier if it is made between tenant and landlord without having to negotiate with an organisation that has gained power through legislation. Of course, it would be good to give the opportunity to negotiate if there is no agreement, but that is not how this bill is designed. That is what is deeply unfortunate. We note that there are specific opinions from JÖK parties which say that they are actually against this but will support it in any case – precisely because there is a regulatory problem instead of regulatory simplification. What advantage do the Swedish democrats see in having that system instead of simply making up for elections with their landlord and then, if they do not agree, calling in the association that they may be a member of?
i-Fmi3rVjYCPXGsEjBaJ2MbC	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Beckman, for the question! The fact that something is simpler is not always good. Of course you always want simple rules for things. We have seen, for example, from the Moderates' side, that we want to simplify a lot in terms of construction, but at the same time we are making it more difficult in the long run if we do not think fully about the consequences for the future of things. The same applies here. It is perhaps easier to have the proposal put forward by the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, but at the same time I think that it is much more important to protect tenants and ensure that there are not too high rents and that there is one party that can negotiate good rents around this optional function that will probably also affect tenants in the future because previous tenants negotiated for themselves various options. That's why I think this is a good system. I think it's important for the costs. That is probably the main reason why we have ended up where we have done and fully support this bill on the part of the Swedish Democrats.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-641	Mr President, I would like to This is the second bill that we are debating today concerning the January agreement and its implementation. It is relatively fast after the January agreement was reached. For natural reasons, there has been a lot of investigative work on the bill long before it was even appropriate to go to an election. As can be seen from the opinion of the Center Party, much of what is part of the bill was investigated and prepared during the time of the alliance government, when Stefan Attefall was our Minister of Housing. I do not really see any significant differences in the bill placed here on Parliament's table and the preparatory work carried out by that government. In the previous debate a little over three hours ago, as Ola Möller also pointed out, we reported on the other reforms included in the January agreement. Paragraph 44 concerns, in addition to what is currently being debated, free renting in new production, measures to give the situation an impact also in existing rentals with utility rents, an independent arbitration in disputes in rental negotiations and, as we discussed earlier, measures against trade in rental contracts. The center party's starting point is that rents should henceforth be set free in new production and that this more free renting should be the main alternative for most people who produce new rentals in Sweden. We expect the Commission to identify the importance of the location factor in leasing in the utility value system to propose measures and to produce results that result in a variation in renting that depends not only on the standard and equipment of the apartment but also on how attractive the apartment is from where it is located and the demand for it. What determines whether an apartment is sought after is not primarily how it is equipped – with which washing machine or whether the bathroom is tiled or not – but where it is located and how popular it is to live in it. The Center Party is pleased with the Moderate and Christian Democrats' consensus on the need to reform the leasing system. It is a welcome reversal, mainly on the part of the Christian Democrats in this discussion. In other contexts it is usually pointed out that this particular rental right has received too much attention in the January contract. I trust that the two parties will later welcome and support other reforms aimed precisely at creating a better rental market. The changes that are now being proposed should be free and without negotiation, but as long as we have a system whereby the parties agree on rents through negotiations, it must be seen as positive that it allows for different standards to be priced in similar apartments under the current negotiating system. We refer to the special opinion, Mr President. At the same time, I would like to note in the Minutes that there is a contradictory wording in the Special Opinion of the Center Party. The Center Party welcomes the opening up within the utility value system to variations in rental levels that the tenant and the landlord can agree on, but that the main focus must always be that it is done alongside a negotiation arrangement where the Tenant Association is involved.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-648	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for reservations to be rejected. Millions of Swedes live and enjoy their rental rights, but queues are growing and far too few new rentals are being built because the rental market is not working. We Liberals do not believe that expensive and inefficient subsidies are the solution. Instead, we want to open up the rental market so that it works better. But the changes should be done in a responsible and safe way. The bill that we are discussing today on election and election is part of the January agreement that the Liberals have concluded together with the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Green Party. In this agreement, the Liberals have won many liberal victories that will make the Swedish housing market better in its entirety. Some of these things are free renting in new production and that the location factor should be more taken into account in renting. Further examples are a change in EBO legislation, i.e. that an asylum seeker who comes to Sweden can choose their own accommodation, so that in particularly vulnerable areas there should be an exception so that the development can be reversed. We will remove the removal tax so that more people can afford to move to something better. We will also have arbitration in disputes between the parties. The aim is that tenants should never suffer from retroactive rent increases. The January Agreement does not answer all the questions. Much more will have to be done, especially in the social field for those furthest away from the housing market and to lift vulnerable exclusion areas. The proposal that we are discussing today, Mr President, about more appointments and exclusions for tenants, is also a liberal negotiating victory. The Liberals are perhaps the party in the Swedish parliament that has fought for this change of law the longest. For us liberals, it is obvious that tenants should have more to say about the standard and equipment in their rental apartments and that the elections should also be visible in the rental wine. If you want a dishwasher in your apartment, it may also cost more, but if you don't want it and instead want to buy it yourself, you should be able to do it. The liberals believe that the tenant should be able to make choices and opt-out equivalent to a rental supplement or deduction for a certain period of time, in this case ten years. This gives the individual tenant more power to influence their own rent. That is why we are wholeheartedly in favour of the legislation. Of course it needs to be followed up after a number of years, and of course this law will not apply to new production after the Liberals get free leasing in new production. It will therefore only concern the existing stock in the context of the use-value system. Mr President, I would like to We will have to get used to the representatives of the Liberals standing in this Chamber bragging that the Liberals have achieved more liberal reforms in the housing market. These reforms will make Sweden better and more people have a chance to get a place to live.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-656	Mr President, I would like to What we are discussing here is about elections and elections. For my part and for the Left, it is important to raise precisely the consumer protection component, which will be very much affected in a negative way. If a tenant wants a standard increase and agrees with the landlord to make it and put in a white product, for example a dishwasher – why continue to pay for the dishwasher when you have finished paying for it? I can't believe it. That's why I'd like an answer from Robert Hannah. Why do we support a proposal when we know that there is undoubtedly a deep problem that will affect the consumer in particular, and in a way that we ourselves would never accept?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-659	Mr President, I would like to That is a legitimate question to ask. But I do not share your view that it is a bad legislation, Momodou Malcolm Jallow. First of all, it is about freedom of choice. The tenant is now given an opportunity. You get the right to choose from or choose from certain things in your apartment so that you can control the rent yourself. This means that a person who prefers to spend money on, for example, eating out can choose not to make the elections but to make an election. It's a pretty strong freedom reform. I understand that the Left Party finds it difficult to understand that one should be allowed to choose for oneself. The liberals are clear that we think that the tenant should decide for himself the design of his apartment, as far as possible. We want to give consumers the opportunity they themselves want. Almost every friend I have who lives in a rental apartment wants to decide the color to have in a room or if you want a dishwasher or not. Through this legislation, we are giving them that opportunity. The legislation also contains a ten-year limit. When ten years are over, it is the usual use-value principle and the usual system that applies to the assessment of the rent of the apartment. Then I hope that the Tenant Association and other tenants themselves will ensure that they do not become a bad deal when they negotiate with the landlord. There is therefore reason to include the Tenants' Association in the negotiations, so that there are no unfair rents.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-663	Mr President, I would like to The Tenants' Association says the opposite of what Robert Hannah says. Of course you want the opportunity to choose. I note that Robert Hannah is not answering my question. If you choose a standard increase and want a dishwasher, there is a sum that you have to pay even after ten years, after you have paid off it. Is it reasonable to continue paying for the dishwasher after ten years? According to this proposal, the lessor can go to the rent board and request that the standard increase be included in the rent – although the tenant is likely to have already paid off. Is that reasonable?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-666	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that it is questioned whether it is reasonable to pay for these things. If any party in the Swedish parliament defends the current system, it is the Left Party, Momodou Malcolm Jallow. You want a rental system based on the use value principle. According to it, it is the content of the apartment, not how popular it is, the location or anything else except what is in the apartment, which should control the rent. It is you who are responsible for defending a rental system where it is the towel dryer that determines the rent, not whether the apartment is located in a safe area, whether the school results there are good or if those who live there think it is nice and safe. Liberals want to switch to another type of rental system, where the situation should be a much stronger factor in renting. I can give you a little advice. If you want a rental system in Sweden that means that after ten years you cannot continue paying for things in the apartment, you should vote for us. Then you will be happy to vote for the reform that we have now achieved with the January agreement. It means that the location factor should mean much more when setting the rent. It means free renting in new production. That's really what you're asking for. You yourself point out what is unfair in the utility value system. This is not just about this reform. It's about the system as a whole. I have friends who still live where I grew up, in Tynnered. There the rent is higher than it is in Haga, in central Gothenburg. It's just because there's a towel dryer, a dishwasher and something else in the apartment. But if you go into boplats.se and look for queue days for the apartments in those areas, I can guarantee that you will see that it takes a number of years to get an apartment in Tynnered while it takes 15–20 years to get one in Haga. It's not fair. I agree that this is unfair. But I don't agree with who's responsible for it. Those responsible are the parties defending the utility value system. And the Left Party is the party that defends the most.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-671	I remind you quietly that we tend to speak through the President and not directly between debaters.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-672	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. Every year, the Committee on Finance makes an evaluation of monetary policy. This evaluation concerns the years 2016 – 2018. It is a united committee that supports the report. As it says in the report text, the committee notes that in 2018, for the second year in a row, the Riksbank reached the inflation target of 2 per cent and that the Swedish economy has developed strongly during the evaluation period. We have had high growth, strong employment growth and falling unemployment. At the same time, it is noted that inflation and cost pressures in the Swedish economy remain relatively weak, as underlying inflation has been well below the inflation target in 2018 and the entire evaluation period. Furthermore, the Swedish krona has weakened during the period, which has greatly contributed to inflation and inflation expectations now being on or near the inflation target. The committee notes that the Riksbank has problems with the assessment of the krona's development and that the debate on the krona weakening and the Riksbank's assessments at times has been extensive. The committee assumes that the Riksbank will review its analysis, methods and models and its communication regarding the assessment of exchange rate developments. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to point out that monetary policy affects the daily lives of citizens. One factor contributing to inflation not taking off properly is that wage increases have been weak, i.e. ordinary wage earners have not got as much in their wallet as they might have expected. However, one factor that has contributed significantly to the inflation that we have today is that energy prices are high. So when we're about to refuel the car, we're doing it at high import prices. In addition, the krona is weak, which makes imports more expensive. For the sake of clarity, I will say that Sweden has a variable exchange rate; it is the market that sets the krona rate, not politics. However, it should be borne in mind that another development scenario, with higher interest rates and stronger krona, would probably have led to lower growth and higher unemployment. That's how it's connected. For us Social Democrats, it is important to keep track of developments and to take responsibility for ensuring that the whole is good for the citizens.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-682	Mr President, I would like to It is time for the Riksdag to take a position on the Committee on Finance's annual evaluation of monetary policy. I would like to begin by proposing that Parliament approve what the committee has said about monetary policy during this period. The Swedish krona has weakened significantly during the evaluation period. This, of course, has helped to ensure that inflation and inflation expectations are now close to the 2% target. The Swedish economy has developed extremely strongly during the period. We have had high growth, we have had a strong rise in employment and we have seen a fall in unemployment. However, it can also be noted that the Riksbank has had major problems in making assessments of the krona's development. The debate on the weakening of the crown and the Riksbank's assessments have at times been extensive, in this Chamber but also in society as a whole. The committee writes that the Riksbank should review its analysis tools, methods and models to make these exchange rate assessments. I think it is extremely important to ensure the Riksbank's credibility. This also applies to its analyses.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-686	Mr President, I would like to We have today to consider a report on the Swedish National Audit Office's Long-term effects of extended choice to upper secondary school. It is a solid report that has reviewed over time the impact of the moderate freedom of choice reforms of the 90s and 00s in the field of education. It was freedom of choice reforms that were not carried out without conflict. In normal order, then just as now, the left was upset by increased freedoms for the individual. There are really few things that better clarify the dividing lines between us: the constant contempt of the Social Democrats for the freedom of the individual and the love of the Moderates for it. The Swedish National Audit Office clearly shows in its report the importance of equally well-functioning schools. The Moderates agree. The quality of a gymnasie school can determine what opportunities a person has for the rest of his life. For this, the Moderates have presented many times earlier suggestions on how leadership, teaching and order can be improved. Today's situation shows that, unfortunately, as a citizen, every school in every part of the country and every city cannot be trusted to function properly. Today it is not only a question of choosing a school but also of having the right to opt out of the worse school. In yesterday's party leader debate Stefan Löfven spoke about the Swedish class society that remains. The Swedish National Audit clearly shows how freedom of choice has contributed to class travel. The report shows how free-school and free-for-all reforms have actually affected pupils' labour market careers. According to the audit, those students who have had more choice have a slightly higher salary than the other pupils. In addition, Mr President, the pupils who come from homes with a weak educational background are particularly affected by this. Thus, the reforms of the Moderates have led to a higher probability that students will complete higher education, receive more positive wage developments and have more career opportunities. However, no system is perfect. Too little has been done in recent years to broaden the opportunities for everyone to benefit from the reforms. Elections do not seem to have had any effect on educational careers for students of foreign background. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, this is because they have fallen into an information deficit. Of course, the Moderates believe that this is unacceptable. All students need to have the same choice, and being able to make good, balanced choices also requires good information. We know this especially now that we have been given black and white that freedom of choice benefits the student in every way. The Moderates believe that it is now perfectly possible for the Riksdag to complement the system satisfactorily. We therefore propose that the Riksdag give the Swedish National Agency for Education a coordinating task to improve information about school elections. We also suggest that the Riksdag supports Moderates' motion that municipalities should provide good information in more languages than Swedish. You cannot expect, Mr President, that every family situation or family background is similar to anyone else. Therefore, where we can, we must improve such a simple thing as providing good information material. It is therefore surprising that the other parties are saying no to this. The Social Democrats, the Swedish Democrats, the Green Party, the Left Party, the Center Party and the Liberals say no to two rather simple proposals, which would make a big difference to a lot of people. It is surprising that inclusion is something you say no to. We know that what is required for every student and family to have the opportunity to make good choices is precisely better access to information. It's a simple thing to correct. We should have done it this afternoon's vote. Now, instead, we will have the chance to revise our position next week, come back to Parliament and say yes to the reservations of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. I would like to support the same, Mr President.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-697	Mr President, I would like to The school will give all students the opportunity to develop to their full potential. Because we humans are different, there is a value in students having to choose a school. Different profiling, targeting and teaching methods in schools can provide the stimulus that the individual student needs to get the right challenges to lift his level. The Swedish National Audit Office has carried out an important review of the links between pupils' ability to choose municipal upper secondary school and their salary and level of education ten years after the completion of studies on a national programme. For Swedish-born students, one can see a positive correlation between their ability to choose upper secondary school programmes and their salary after ten years. This should reasonably be of the highest interest to Sweden. We need well-educated citizens, who contribute to the country's development. We also know that there are strong links between educational attainment, health and life expectancy. Thus, even for the individual, there are valuable gains, in addition to work and income levels. Unfortunately, however, for students with foreign or weak educational backgrounds, choices do not seem to have had any effect on educational careers. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that it is important from an equivalence perspective to ensure good quality in upper secondary school and to provide information and support to all pupils who will choose upper secondary education. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, we are unique in that the school grant goes with the student, regardless of which school the student chooses. In many other countries, families have to pay for the education themselves if, for example, they choose an independent school. It is therefore particularly important that parents and pupils who lack knowledge about the Swedish school system receive thorough information about the possibilities of choosing a school. The Christian Democrats and the Moderates believe that more students must be given the opportunity to choose the school that suits them best. An important prerequisite for this is that parents and pupils are given better opportunities to make an informed choice in school. There is therefore a need for a coordinating mission to improve information on school elections. There is also a need to ensure that municipalities provide good information in more languages about school choices available. It is important for the student to fully understand what distinguishes different educations, but also to give the parents the opportunity to be fully involved in the choice for life that their children are about to make. Mr President, I would like to With this, I call for the joint reservation of Moderates and Christian Democrats to be approved.
i-7kHMdJiS74XPcngwJQAYHg	Mr President, I would like to We are debating here today the report by the Committee on Education's Long-term effects of increased choice for upper secondary school, the report by the National Audit Office and the follow-up motion by the Moderates and Christian Democrats on information on the choice of schools and education in different school forms. The Swedish National Audit Office does not make any recommendations to the Government or the authorities in its report, but points out that from an equivalence perspective we must pass the quality of upper secondary school and provide support and information to pupils who are going to want upper secondary school. I think we can all agree with that. The purpose of the report was to look at how the changes in the Swedish school regarding the ability to choose school and education are related to the students' success in the labour market and future study opportunities. It is important to see that the report is based on a very limited selection of pupils from metropolitan municipalities, students who have completed a national programme within three years. These municipalities differ considerably from smaller municipalities in terms of opportunities to offer training and in terms of different schools with other principals. That is precisely why no recommendations are made. According to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, the overall results provide no evidence that the possibility of indicating the desired municipal upper secondary school has affected the probability of an individual having an income, being in work or having completed post-secondary studies ten years after completing upper secondary school. It is therefore very difficult to draw far-reaching conclusions and use the results of the report as evidence for one side or the other. Mr President, I would like to During the spring, many of us have been imprisoned by the HBO series Chernobyl. It is a strong story about the dangers of nuclear power. But perhaps of greater interest to this debate is the depiction of the Soviet power elite. They are trapped in a system of thought, unable to acknowledge their own mistakes and see the challenges of reality. It is the system above all. The system can't be wrong. There must be something wrong with reality. Nuclear power stations can't explode. We have great challenges in the Swedish school. Since the 1990s, equivalence has decreased and the results of knowledge have weakened. The market forces under bourgeois governments have been given free leeway. Uncritically and quickly, the school would be exposed to competition. The result is that class society has grown and thousands of young people in our country do not get the schooling to which they are entitled. When I read the Swedish National Audit Office's review report, I am struck by the fact that we continue to face huge investments in the Swedish school. Of course, not all the challenges can be attributed to an electoral system or to school election reforms, but the reforms have not revolutionised school results in a positive direction either. We have seen a long increase in school segregation. School companies invest in students who are profitable. They establish themselves in municipalities and neighbourhoods where it is possible to fill the places in order to later make a profit. Contrary to what was meant by these reforms, we have seen that we have had large groups but not at all as many small alternatives as we would have liked. Schools can go bankrupt, and so do they. The answer to these challenges cannot be more market. We need to get away from the customer community and recreate a knowledge school that can handle the compensatory task. We need to see the reality and want to change the system. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates and Christian Democrats want to see initiatives for more people to make better choices. However, only well-informed elections will not provide more equivalence. Do you also see the real problems of structural inequality? As the School Commission, various trade unions, researchers and by February the OECD report shows, policies are needed to counter the negative consequences of school elections. Inequality reinforces itself. It is as if the person born with great resources is simply given greater opportunities to succeed through life. Conversely, those born poor with fewer resources have fewer opportunities. That is why we need to take responsibility together. Life is not a 100-meter race where one should run with one leg and another should run with two legs. Policies are needed to equalise living conditions, and the role of schools in this is particularly important. The school should be compensatory and equal for everyone. The Social Democratic Government has begun work to make Swedish school better. We'll build out the equivalence money, and we'll go for every school to be good. We want to improve the allocation of resources and change the rules so that every school can have a better social composition. We've reinforced high school. We allocate resources to higher teachers' salaries. We want more adults in school. We want greater equality between different districts. Right now we are looking at upper secondary school, so that it can become the school that was talked about at the beginning – better and good throughout the country. But we are not satisfied, Mr President. The way forward is to increase equivalence and equality. We will never accept a school where a few have to stand back for others to succeed. I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-718	Mr President, I would like to After this speech, my question to Mattias Vepsä is whether there is a value in giving pupils and parents better opportunities to make informed choices in front of upper secondary school. That's what the reservation is about. This would help to increase equality and reduce inequality.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-719	Mr President, I would like to I thank Gudrun Brunegård for the question. It is clear that even in this system there is an intrinsic value in that we should have the best possible information available. Therefore, the Swedish National Agency for Education has already been tasked with making an information campaign aimed at guardians. It enables better information to be provided. The municipalities are responsible for ensuring that the information is collected. A study is currently being carried out on how to dimension and increase the quality of upper secondary school across the country. It is the result of seeing that this system needs to be changed and made better, so that more people can make informed choices. The counter-questions are: how do you read the OECD report? How do you read the research? How do the Christian Democrats interpret facts on the ground that show that it is not just a perfect market that solves this? Efforts are also needed to increase equality. Structural measures are needed in the residential, school and leisure areas. What do you want to do for more people to succeed in high school?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-721	Mr President, I would like to It is very important that we work for equality with all the means at our disposal. Then I am afraid that the Social Democrats and the rest of the majority will make a mistake if you do not go on our reservation, which reinforces the opportunity for parents and students to make informed choices.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-722	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer I received. I am pleased that we share the view – we need to increase equality. Therefore, we have chosen to continue with the School Commission's idea of increasing equivalence efforts in the Swedish school and ensuring that more children succeed through life. When you were given the opportunity at Christmas to present a budget, we noticed how important it was to have huge tax cuts for those who had the very best, Gudrun Brunegård. Where were the investments in the Swedish school? During the eight alliance years when you ruled, it was 19 times more common to lower the tax than to invest in the school. But that said, it is to be welcomed that the Christian Democrats, too, now want to point the point at the great injustice of our time: inequality. In this work, I would like us to be able to take joint responsibility.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-726	Mr President, I would like to I feel I need to ask Mr Mattias, following his speech in the debate, whether it is the case that the Social Democrats do not support the free high school elections. When you listen to the honourable Member, it is in any case perceived as such. It is felt that the Social Democrats are questioning a freedom of choice system that we read about in the report has affected very many students very positively. We will read about how the pupils who come from home with a weak educational background also benefit from the system. Of course, the system isn't perfect. We agree with that. That is also why we are proposing additional supplements and measures that would benefit those families and children. You'll say no to that. My question to the honourable Member is this: is it really the case that the Social Democrats are against the free choice of school and the free choice of upper secondary school? If you are not, but are in favour of free school elections, why do you not say yes to initiatives that would simplify and improve for those who will make the choice?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-730	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Noria, for the good questions! Clearly, we want a situation where more people have the opportunity to attend the school they want to attend. The truth is, we don't have a choice as free as Noria wants to suggest we have. Looking at the entire school selection side, we see how researchers and OECD problematise a system without compensatory elements. We would like to review the school election system so that we could have other entrances to the schools. Otherwise it would only remain that children are put in line when they are born to certain schools when looking at the primary school page. It's very unfair. Some happen to live, be born and have their childhood here and others come here when they are 18 years old and have been here for a couple of months. I don't know if that school system is free. It is clear that we want to reform the school system we have and make it more equal. In the same way, we provide resources for teachers to have better salaries and we will manage the most vulnerable schools with special efforts so that all schools have the opportunity to be better schools. We want to reweight school money so that we have a greater proportion of socio-economic factors. We also want to ensure that the funding of upper secondary school is weighted so that those schools that need the most are given more and more resources. We have therefore set up the investigations that follow the School Commission to review the dimensioning of upper secondary school. On one point, we agree. It is a good thing that we see the elements to be improved and strengthened. I welcome the reversal of Norias and Moderates. I also welcome the fact that you see the problems that exist.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-737	Mr President, I would like to It is true that we are all striving for a society that offers good education regardless of which school you choose or end up in. But that is not the case today. We know that. It is very problematic if you as a politician representing the largest party strive for a society that would limit pupils' ability to choose. I share the honourable Member's view that the system is not perfect. We therefore propose additions. When Mr Mattias talks about the free primary school elections – which really belong in a different debate from this – I share the view that the elections in that system are not entirely free. For example, we have a principle of proximity that prevents students from all over the city from choosing schools in different parts than in the very area where they live. Of course, there are things to review even in that system. Nevertheless, I am opposed to the rhetoric of the Social Democrats in the debate on free school elections. It claims that everything is a free market that does not work. I would say that we need more market in the field of school. We need to make it easier for students to opt out of a school that works, usually in socially-governed municipalities. We'll make sure they have the right to choose schools that work. When we talk about efforts for equivalence, the moderate and Christian-democratic budget that went through efforts on equivalence in particular for schools in exclusion areas was included. Those bets have been blocked by your government.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-742	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Noria. For us, it is important for the school to have access to the resources that we have the opportunity to provide the school. This requires that all tax chandeliers are used in the best possible way. A year ago, the House had the opportunity to review, for example, the profit draw and to ensure that the money went to school. As I wanted to point out in my speech, the school election part is not perhaps the single biggest challenge that we have, but the whole marketisation. Students are seen as customers in a market where schools have an opportunity to close and draw if it does not fit, if they do not make the profit they intend to make, if the costs for students are too high or if the residential area is too segregated. Then these free schools do not appear in those very areas. We have chosen not to direct the cape towards well-functioning free schools or the system as such. What we are saying is that we want to increase transparency, for example, so that we have the opportunity to see where the money goes. It would have been fun if we had agreed on that. We made it possible for control to take place. We agreed on that, too. It was a continuation of previous agreements in this House. That's a good step. What we are saying is that there is probably no free market to pursue in this area. There are students, children and young people who are entitled to the best school in the world. It's not the best school in the world. Then we want to ensure that we control resources in the way that makes it the world's most compensatory, equal and equal school.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-748	Mr President, I would like to For the Center Party, it is a matter of course that people should be allowed to choose and decide more for themselves. It is a matter of course to choose which school to attend. It is an issue that we have been working and fighting for for a long time so that more students, parents and teachers will have that freedom of choice. It is an issue that needs to be constantly worked on, strengthened, protected and developed. The report from the Swedish National Audit Office that we are discussing here is about the long-term effects of students having the opportunity to choose. It's an interesting reading. It covers three metropolitan municipalities, and the study is based on those who have undergone a national programme within three years. The Swedish National Audit Office finds some interesting connections. It is, among other things, that pupils' ability to choose municipal upper secondary school has improved their salary and level of education ten years after studying on a national programme. The opportunity to choose strengthens the students' future opportunities. The report points out that the choice has not provided the same opportunities for all students. It shows that it has had less impact on pupils with foreign background. The Center Party therefore sees that there are a number of areas to work with in the future in terms of freedom of choice within schools. Firstly, it is important to point out, as we have previously discussed, that all schools should be good schools. Whether it is a municipal, non-profit or independent actor, it is important that all schools are good schools and that the School Inspectorate gets the right tools to monitor the quality so that all schools deliver. Secondly, it is important to protect and develop free schools. There should be schools for all students regardless of their interest and needs. Therefore, free schools are also needed for pupils and also parents to have a school that suits them. It is also about creating a better and more well-functioning labour market for teachers. Thirdly, we want to see a more informed choice of study so that more people have the opportunity to choose a school. We see that the Swedish National Audit Office's report indicates that there is a need to strengthen the freedom of choice for a number of people so that we develop it better. For us, that goes without saying. Our message is that we need to learn lessons from the Swedish National Audit Office's report in order to create a more equal school but also a more equal choice for all students.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-756	Mr President, I would like to This report consists of two parts, so my speech will also do so. I'll split it up. The original part of the report concerns the unauthorised dissemination of national tests and the review and recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office in order to curb this. National tests are an issue that is often raised in the debate. They take time to complete, and it also takes much of the teachers' time to correct the tests. At the national level, it is important that we can monitor the progress of schools and how the principals carry out their mission. National tests are an important part of national monitoring, but they are also an important instrument for rating and follow-up at schools and at school. There is still much to be done before the national tests can really be considered a real meter of results. Not least, the Swedish School Inspectorate's revision of the exams has shown that there is a great difference between how different teachers correct the exams. In addition to this uncertainty, there has been an unauthorised spread of the samples, which also limits reliability. We really need a reliable follow-up of the students' results. That is why we Moderates both want to see the digitisation of the national tests and a central correction in order to increase reliability. The government itself states that digitalisation will reduce the risk of unauthorised dissemination. What is strange, as we also mention in our reservation, is the timetable. The year 2022 is three years away, and until then we lack reliable follow-up. Platforms are in place to distribute tests, and in some schools national tests are already being carried out on these platforms. So the technical solutions exist, so it is very difficult to understand that it will have to take so long. As I said, 2022 is three years away. It is not a new assignment that the Swedish National Agency for Education has received, but it is something that has been going on for a long time. This makes it completely incomprehensible that it will have to take until 2022 before we can get a proper follow-up worth the name. Mr President, I would like to The second part of the report deals with national sports gymnasies and nationally approved sports training. The question was initiated by us Moderates after a visit to Berga Naturbruksgymnasium, a high school that this autumn does not bring in any more students in the direction of riding due to criticism from the School Inspectorate. Both nationally approved sports courses and national sports gymnasies have been created to provide opportunities for elite young people to attend high school. They are given the opportunity to combine their sports practice and training with an ordinary upper secondary school education. In addition to talent and training, equipment is also required in order to be able to make an elite initiative. This applies not only to horseback riding, but also to skiing and golf, for example. In Berga's case they have received criticism from the Swedish School Inspectorate for the fact that the school is not free of charge. For those who attend the school's nationally approved sports education with a focus on horses, the student must have his own horse and stable it up at the school. It is worth mentioning that Berga, like many other schools offering nature conservation programmes, also has a focus on horses where the school accounts for both horse and all the costs for it. It is therefore possible to combine upper secondary education and horse riding without having your own horse. But the nationally approved sports trainings and national sports gymnasies are intended precisely for the elite young people, and this requires their own equipment. Already in March 2018, the Swedish Sports Federation and the Swedish National Agency for Education submitted a joint letter on sports upper secondary schools and on the need to review the regulations, including with regard to fees. Unless this happens, post-education education will be forced to stop, and elite young people will be deprived of the opportunity to go to high school if they do not choose any form of distance solution. I wrote an interpellation to the Minister for Education on this matter early this spring and referred to the letter from the National Board of Education and the National Sports Association. Unfortunately, the only answer I received in the interpellation debate was that the Minister for Education intended to follow developments. This led us Moderates to the fact that it was absolutely necessary to raise the issue in the Committee on Education. Although it will certainly take time before a new regulatory framework is in place, it is nevertheless gratifying that the ball is now rolling through the committee initiative that has been taken, and which is supported by a united committee, and with a decision in this House. I had hoped that the decision would be taken today. But now other committees took a little longer in their debates, so there will be a decision next week. Now, as I said, the ball is rolling, and we Moderates will follow up on this. We think that elite young people should have the opportunity to combine their training with a good upper secondary school education. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to express my support for the reservation contained in the report.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-771	Mr President, I would like to The national tests are an important tool to ensure that different teachers and schools make reasonably equivalent assessments of pupils' knowledge when the latter are to grade. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance that questions and answers do not leak out in advance. It is ultimately a matter of legal certainty. The Swedish National Audit Office has assessed the work of the authorities to prevent the unauthorised dissemination of national tests. Most of the deficiencies that have been detected in the past seem to have been resolved. Several investigative efforts are also under way to develop efforts to prevent and remedy unauthorised dissemination. Now it has been said that the national tests will be digitised in 2022. According to the government, this will certainly help to reduce the risk of unauthorised dissemination. If you have secure digital platforms and so on, that should be the case. But the timetable is too slow, in the opinion of the Christian Democrats. Punishing cheating is important, no matter what kind of cheating it is. Cheating contributes to an individual or several persons getting higher grades than they should rightly have. It is demoralising in itself, and it reduces confidence in the system. Ultimately, it affects those who choose not to cheat and their ability to choose education. Wrong people enter coveted educations, while a more competent student is pushed away. The national tests have in recent years been lined by repeated cheating, and tests have been leaked. The tests have, among other things, been spread in social media. The legitimacy of the national tests has thus been questioned. Digitisation of national tests is far too slow. According to the government's plan, it must therefore be introduced in 2022. It's too late. Digitising national tests is an urgent matter, and it should be a priority for the government to get this in place. Furthermore, we Christian Democrats believe that it should be accompanied by severe sanctions for those schools that do not control the tests but leak. Mr President, I would like to I support the reservations of the Moderates and Christian Democrats.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-779	Mr President, I would like to Standardised tests, such as the national tests, are not in themselves a method of meeting each student's needs. Neither grades nor national tests are The solution with L for the Swedish school. The right-wing proposals in school policy can sometimes give the impression. But the fact is that summarising assessment is not what makes individual students grow the most. Anyone who really wants to support students and make them grow to the maximum on the basis of their conditions must endeavour to reconnect with the student. This feedback should, in order to give the greatest possible exchange, not be about scoring the way things went yesterday. Rather, it should be about how the student will do to make things better in the future – this in combination with an individually adapted teaching that meets each student's needs for support, guidance and stimulation. But if we really want to improve school outcomes, it is far more important to invest in educated teachers, to have many adults in school, leadership in the classroom and security and study. Let us assume that the moderate parliamentary group would like to raise a pig to get ham for Christmas. If so, to maximize the amount of meat they can get out, they would be wise to put their resources carefully into feeding the pig with energy - rich jaws. To measure the pig's growth from time to time can be wise, so that you know that the feed is sufficient and of the right type. But the measurement itself will not give more ham. So if the moderate group spends the most energy on measuring and therefore forgets to feed, it can be said that the Christmas table is in danger. Let's focus on feeding plenty, and we can measure just enough. Mr President, I would like to When we're going to measure properly, the measurement must fulfil its purpose. The meaning of the measurement, i.e. the national tests, is of course equivalence. It is about giving teachers the opportunity to make fair judgements and give fair grades. It is about providing tools for evaluating the differences that exist between areas, schools and classrooms. Equality in school is indeed a goal that we must prioritise, for every kid's sake. If we are to know how that work is going and how we are to manage it to become a reality, the assessments that form the basis we use for such decisions, i.e. grades and test results, must be legally secure and equivalent. In addition, the implementation and correction of the national examination of subjects is a heavy administrative task for teachers. The time that it takes each teacher to conduct and correct the national exams should enable teachers to use for more central things in school such as their pupils, teaching and students' learning. For the sake of equivalence, for the sake of efficiency and legal certainty, for the sake of pupils' learning and for the attractiveness of the teaching profession, it is therefore gratifying that the government is now working on the issue of digitising and centralising national tests. Mr President, I would like to Even from a student perspective, the line appears to digitize as the right way to go. I remember writing national tests myself. Even then I was used to shaping my texts on computer, in word processors – which I still do, for example when I wrote the script for this debate. National tests involved large aula writings, nerves on the outside of the body, essays that required many words on paper and writer's cramps in a double sense – on the one hand, the figurative that tends to plague writers, the white paper that stares back at you from the table; on the other hand, the purely physical pain that I remember arose in an above hand when it would form long essays with pencils, blur, redispose and correct text. It was out-of-date and stressful and gave me by no means the best conditions to perform my best lyrics. It is gratifying, Mr President, that Moderates and Christian Democrats are also involved in digitalisation and central correction. But here we must have respect for the fact that many people are affected, and then we must understand that it is best to change things step by step. It would be headless to make such a far-reaching change in far-flung forms. A more responsible change means that the Swedish National Agency for Education and Schools will have time to test, modify and improve before the system is fully built. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the committee's proposal in the UbU report17. The report we are debating today deals with two parts. One is the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the Swedish School Inspectorate's and the Swedish National Agency for Education's work to prevent the unauthorised dissemination of national tests. The second is the committee initiative initiated by the Moderates so that it will continue to be possible for elite young people to combine their sport with upper secondary education. Let's start with the Swedish National Auditor's review. The work of the authorities and schools to prevent unauthorised dissemination and any form of cheating is important because cheating and unauthorised dissemination are highly counterproductive to the purpose of the national exams, i.e. to be tools for equivalent assessment and grades within and between the country's schools. But even from an individual perspective, it is deeply unfair for some to take the liberty of misappropriating unjust advantages. Therefore, it is gratifying that the Swedish National Audit Office notes that most of the deficiencies that have existed during the review period have been resolved in a thorough development work during 2018. The mission to prevent unauthorised dissemination is difficult because many people are affected and it is people who handle the tests. Therefore, one of the effective measures taken to clarify the handling of samples is also to prevent their spread. The Swedish National Audit Office has made some recommendations to the audited school authorities. You can sum them up something like this. The Swedish National Agency for Education says: Follow up on the changes that have been made. Make it clear when the inspection and the police will be involved. See what you can do with the results of the replacement tests. To the Swedish School Inspectorate, the Swedish National Audit Office says roughly: Investigate whether you should look specifically at how the work to prevent unauthorised dissemination works in municipal adult education. The Swedish National Audit Office does not make any recommendations to the Government, and the Government shares the Swedish Audit Office's assessment of the authorities' work. So does the committee. Furthermore, as I said earlier, the government intends to digitise the national tests, which will make the handling of the tests even safer and even less sensitive to cheating and human error. Madam President, I would like The second of the two parts of the report deals with the committee initiative supported by a united committee on national sports education. The school should be free of charge. However, many elite sports are expensive to practice, which means that national sports training is not always free of charge. This has led to injunctions when the Swedish School Inspectorate has examined sports education and risks leading to the closure of certain courses. It is a good order that young people have good opportunities to combine upper secondary education with elite sports. The fact that young people have the opportunity to be elite is important, both to promote the emergence of new sports talent and to give them as people the opportunity to grow with their passion. However, it is also important for them to be able to get a secondary education that they can build on when the elite career is over. Therefore, we urge the government to explore the possibility of introducing specific regulations for upper secondary schools that meet the needs and conditions of different sports and enable the combination of elite and upper secondary education. Both the effects and the consequences of such a change will also be investigated as it is a risky way of starting to ease regulation on the freedom of charge in the country's schools. The Socialist Group in the Committee on Education will ensure that any changes do not jeopardise the general principle of freedom of charge. It is fundamental to equality, democracy and the construction of a school for all. Madam President, I would like To sum up: Standardized tests are not the solution to school problems, but they are the best we have come up with to make the assessment fair and equal within and between classrooms, schools and principals. Cheating is counterproductive of that objective of equivalence and must therefore be prosecuted. The Swedish National Audit Office's review shows that the work of the school authorities against unauthorised dissemination now mainly works. I'm glad to hear that. We want young people to continue to be able to combine elite efforts in sport with upper secondary education. But it must not jeopardise the fact that the school is for everyone, on equal terms and regardless of the thickness of the wallet. To conclude, I would like to repeat: Let us feed a lot and measure just enough.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-803	Madam President, I would like It feels like the Social Democrats are repeating themselves on this subject with follow-up. It seems to be very sensitive. National tests are important. You should not measure too much, but it is important to follow up how things go. The whole introduction to Linus Sköld's speech was about the fact that national tests were not so good at all. Now the whole case is about national tests. The other questions, about school development and how to get pupils to develop, do not conflict with the fact that at the main level, at the school level and at the national level you follow up on how things go. All these technical systems exist today. There are schools that are already conducting national tests on digital platforms. I find it hard to understand why this is going to take up to 2022. Does Linus Sköld really think it is a reasonable order for it to have to take so long, especially with the problems that exist with national tests? We should be the guarantor of an equal school, and then we must be able to follow it up. In fact, at present, there is no way to follow up on what is going on that is legally secure and where we can be sure that the results have been measured and evaluated equally.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-807	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I would like to begin by drawing up a brief summary of the proposals that the Moderates have made over the years with regard to standardised tests and other summarising assessments. It is, for example, knowledge requirements in preschool, the re-introduction of the national tests that we have made volunteers for the school units, training examinations for each grade and grades from grade 4. In conclusion, there are many suggestions to sum up and count what happened yesterday and fewer suggestions to talk about what we are going to do to make things better tomorrow. They are not in conflict with each other – follow-up is not in conflict with making development efforts – but I would say: Remember to feed the pig! Responsible implementation of digitisation of national tests and central correction takes time to implement. An attempt at 100 schools is underway right now. This process was launched during the last term of the previous government – the S-MP government. If this is so urgent, why was the process not set in motion during the previous parliamentary term, when Maria Stockhaus's party was in government, or the parliamentary term before that, when the Alliance had its own majority? Digital progress since 2006 has not been so great that we have greater opportunities to build this type of system now than we had then.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-811	Madam President, I would like I do not really share Linus Sköld's view of technological development. A great deal has happened in the case of cloud services and other things that make it much easier to develop this type of system today than it was in previous mandates. I have a question about sports education. Linus Sköld said in his speech that there were training courses at risk of being closed. It is de facto the case that at least one or two training courses are already being completed. I would like to hear why the government has done nothing. On 18 March 2018, this letter was received. I asked Anna Ekström the question. She was just to follow developments; she had no suggestion to do anything about this letter. My interpretation is that the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government does not really care about these students – otherwise they would have taken hold of this. The fact that these courses were to begin to be closed was already in the direction of danger when the letter came, which was why the Swedish Sports Federation and the Swedish National Agency for Education basically wrote completed investigation directives. The government could only have set up an investigation, but they haven't. Now I hope that this committee initiative and the announcement that we are deciding on in this House will give the government momentum. So far, it seems that the interest in saving these educations for elite young people has been very limited.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-816	Madam President, I would like Thank you for having been corrected by Maria Stockhaus. Of course we have had a technological development since 2006. However, the technology was there – it was by no means impossible to launch a digitisation project in 2006, I would like to clarify. As far as the committee initiative is concerned, I share Maria Stockhaus's intention. The opportunity to combine upper secondary education with elite sports is important, as I said, both for the individual's ability to grow with his passion and for us to be able to develop sports talent in the future as well.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-818	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased with the research carried out in Sweden in a wide variety of areas. Research is necessary for development. It helps us both in Sweden and internationally with innovations that help and make life easier for many people, who help to improve the environment and who can save lives. In many areas we in Sweden are actually the world leader in research. But we should also be able to be proud of the research. Let's know it's been right. That is why I would like to ask the Moderates to approve reservation 1. It is very important that all research should be ethically correct and that it should be carried out in open and transparent forms, in order to protect the person affected by the research and to protect the person who will be affected by the research in the future. There must be a clear structure to ensure that there is a legally secure management of suspected misconduct in research. It is important that misconduct is detected early so that there is as little damage as possible. Research results based on cheating should be able to be withdrawn or possibly corrected. We are therefore very much in favour of the government's proposal to set up a special committee to test misconduct and give back its good reputation to research. Most of the research is of course done correctly, but this must apply to all research. We will be able to be proud of all the research done in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The misconduct investigation, which preceded the government's proposal, suggested that the reform to be introduced should be followed up five years after its introduction. We think this is a very good proposal; it should be followed up no later than five years but preferably earlier. However, we think that the government's proposal to follow what is happening and possibly make changes is a little too vague. We think it is important that it is clear that there is a certain time when there should be a follow-up. We also think that the definition of what is involved in misconduct can be made a little further. For example, we have a proposal for wording that ends with other deviations from good research practice, because unfortunately there are many different kinds of cheating or misconduct that can be done. We think it is important that it is made clear what misconduct means, and of course it should not happen. I would therefore like to ask the Moderates to approve reservation 1.
i-SCckzzAPvi23nRPMZvNPVX	Madam President, I would like I support our follow-up motion on this matter, reservation 2. First of all, I would like to say a brief word about monitoring and evaluation. We believe that all important, major reforms that are being made should be evaluated and followed up. It's obvious. Perhaps it is enough for us to raise a single motion on this issue, that this should always apply, so that we do not have to engage in follow-up movements on every single matter. The research should be free and not governed by the state powers. It should even be freer than it is today, I think. However, the person who pays for the entire business has the right to make demands. Those who pay are taxpayers, represented by us politicians in this case. One of the requirements we have every right to make is that research is based on so-called good research practice and that there is no misconduct in research, at least not to a great extent – I think it is difficult to achieve any zero tolerance. To then amend the Higher Education Act and establish a Board is quite reasonable for us all to be able to ensure good research practice. It is also perfectly reasonable that higher education institutions and other actors themselves do not have the full responsibility for ensuring that the research is conducted in accordance with good research practice. For various reasons, the activities must also have a control body outside the higher education institutions. For these reasons, we believe that the Government's proposals as a whole are good and welcome. I'm moving on to our follow-up motion. However, the report states that several reasons suggest that the question of extending the scope of the law to at least all research carried out with public funds should be further considered. The government therefore intends to have this investigated. ..................................................... This was not in the bill, what I could see, but that is exactly what we think. That is also exactly why we aroused our follow-up exercise. We do not even believe that the scope of the law needs to apply to all research where a small part is public funds but should exceed a certain part or sum. We think this should have been investigated when the bill was presented and now in principle finished. That is why I am today in favour of our reservation, but in essence on this issue we seem to have an embarrassing consensus on the substance of the matter.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-836	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to deal with the Government's proposal for a new law on responsibility for good research practice and the examination of misconduct in research. The law means that a researcher is responsible for following good research practice in his or her research and that a head of research has the overall responsibility for the research being carried out in accordance with good research practice. Questions of misconduct in research shall be examined by a special board, and the heads of research shall be obliged to submit suspicions of misconduct in research to the Board. Research misconduct shall be defined as a serious deviation from good research practice in the form of fabrication, falsification or plagiarism committed intentionally or by gross negligence in the planning, execution or reporting of research. The Act applies to research carried out by state universities and colleges, other state authorities, state companies and foundations, municipalities and county councils, municipal companies, economic associations and foundations. However, there are some exceptions, such as research in the field of defence and security. Few of us may have failed to note the negative consequences for both individuals and society at large that misconduct in research can lead to. At worst, it can lead to very great tragedies. It is important that the public has confidence in research and that we, as legislators, ensure that there is clear legislation and supervision. But everyone involved in research also has a responsibility to ensure that it is carried out according to good practice. Today, the Swedish research leaders deal with suspicions of misconduct in research in different ways. There are shortcomings in today's system where each research head is responsible for investigating misconduct within his or her own organisation. On the one hand, there is a risk that the investigations will be carried out in different ways, and on the other hand the credibility of the investigations can be questioned because the research leaders have an interest in demonstrating that misconduct does not occur within their own organisation. At the request of a university or higher education institution which has the State as its principal and which is often covered by the Higher Education Act, the expert group on misconduct in research at the Board of Appeal for Ethics Review may comment on cases concerning investigations into suspicions of misconduct in research, artistic research and development work. However, according to the Government, these opinions have not become sufficiently normative, partly because the expert group and the different universities have different definitions of misconduct in research. The government has received many signals that the current system for dealing with suspicions of misconduct in research is lacking in several areas. The Government sees a need for both increased preventive work to promote good practice in research and a new order to deal with misconduct, and the Government makes proposals in the bill for clear regulations in these respects. The Government is also clear in the proposal that certain parts should be further investigated and that constant follow-up should be carried out. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-841	Madam President, I would like There is broad agreement in committee on the report we are debating today. This is a new system to promote good practice and the management of research fraud. The background is the high profile case a few years ago, the so-called Macchiarini affair, which was spread both nationally and internationally. The issue was raised to a larger political discussion on how to deal with research fraud in Sweden in order to avoid similar situations again and for our Swedish higher education institutions, which have a high international reputation, to retain this in the future. The issue has been highlighted in television reporting, many articles and books, which have shown many remarkable parts. Only last spring the question was raised again. When we discuss an issue on which we agree on in the Education Committee in Parliament, it is also important to emphasise that the government has made a lot of legitimate efforts both during the last parliamentary term and in the proposal we are now discussing. Some of the colleagues here have highlighted the fact that most research carried out in Sweden follows good research practice and has high quality. It is something to constantly remind us of when we discuss the specific cases where it does not work and where we must ensure that it does not continue. Today, it is the head of research who is responsible for the management. This means that these issues are handled differently by different universities and by different research heads. The proposal now proposes moving the issues to a national level with a joint board. It creates better conditions for a more independent review, and thus there may be greater confidence in the review that is taking place. The proposal makes the researcher's role and the research head's responsibility clear. There will be a clearer definition of what is wrong with research on plagiarism, counterfeiting or other research issues. Madam President, I would like One issue which is not in the bill and which is somewhat outside the subject, but which is so important to raise in discussions about research fraud, is to make data available. Sweden spends considerable resources on research and very public resources on research. For the Center Party, it is a given issue that the research data produced using public funds should also be available. It is important for innovation, and it is important for the issue we are discussing today, which is about minimising the possibility of research fraud. This will make data available to other researchers. They can then hopefully discover new innovations and also those cases where people have acted against good research practice. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-847	Madam President, I would like In recent years we have learned of some misdemeanors in research. The fact that it has come out is of course great, but you can also ask how it can occur and sometimes can last so long. Most famous is the Macchiarini affair, which many have mentioned here. But there are also the researchers who a few years ago were convicted of misconduct in their research on plastic in fish. It was research that became world famous, but the researchers could not present enough background data. Although almost all research is of good quality, there must be no doubt. That is why it is good that we should now adopt a new law that regulates responsibilities and that we set up a special committee. The examples I have mentioned have shown that in these particular cases universities have ignored warning signals or mitigated criticism. That is something that I hope we will avoid in the future with the bill before us. It is just as important to have good preventive work as it is to deal properly with the misconduct that is being discovered. Bad work in this area risks the quality of research and can also affect third parties, for example if care interventions are based on faulty or incomplete research. For state-funded research, it is obvious that we should make demands for unassailable research even if the research itself must and should be free. I welcome the Government's intention to have research on whether and how the new law can also be applied to non-governmental research leaders receiving state research funding. It would, of course, have been desirable if this had been included now, but at the same time it is important that we do not delay the introduction of the law but decide on the parts that are clear and well-examined. It deserves both the academy and us citizens, who must actually be able to rely on research. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-852	Madam President, I would like When a researcher cheats with his or her data, results, or methods, it can have disastrous consequences. Unfortunately, we have seen this in the form of human suffering and death. That, of course, must not be allowed to happen. It is in the light of such a case that the S-MP Government is now taking action and introducing new legislation and a new independent Board Authority that can examine issues of misconduct in order to be able to collectively take responsibility for cheating and misconduct in research so that it can be suppressed. That is what this debate is about. Of course, patients do not have to die to the point of death. Basically, it is about maintaining the credibility and confidence of our researchers and the research carried out in Sweden at our universities and our authorities. Trust in research is high today, and that is how it should be. Sweden is a knowledge nation, a research nation. We are outstanding internationally. Our investments in research and development are high in international comparison. We have a relatively equal research team, I would say, even if we have a piece left there. We have a high proportion of professional researchers and a high level of education, and we are at the forefront of innovation, for example. A prerequisite for this position and a continuing leading position internationally is acceptance from the public, that research and researchers have a high level of trust in society, but also that the research is reliable – that sources and inputs are correct, that the methods are reliable and verified, and that the results are evidence-based and carefully controlled. But we see in society a certain degree of factual resistance. It is worrying, especially when this phenomenon begins to creep up, and we find it among our decision-makers in political assemblies. The negation, ridicule and denial of climate change – as the combined research shows in complete agreement – is one such example. Fortunately, the climate-deniers belong to the exception. It is also a small minority who actually do not believe in research, in proven science. However, if we risk confidence in research, we clearly face completely new problems and societal challenges. We're not gonna end up there, and that's why this bill is important. We will continue to have high research ethics, and there will be good practice in research. Madam President, I would like It is stated in the background text of the bill that the government can state that, after all, there is cheating, misconduct, within the scientific community. Not all researchers follow good research practice. It is common for researchers to lie about their research, not openly report methods and results, steal research results from others, etc. 中, it says in the bill. There are also counterfeits, fabrication and plagiarism. Today, there is no definition of good research practice, nor of misconduct in research. It is the principals, employers and, most often, the higher education institutions who have the responsibility to define the concepts themselves but also to investigate the cases themselves that are reported and take any action. Most of the higher education institutions have a functioning organisation for this in local ethical councils or similar. But there are problems with the fact that it is entirely at the universities themselves. The system of rules that we have today is unclear and does not provide a sufficient basis for legal certainty. There are problems with equivalence. The definitions can distinguish between different research heads but also in terms of how notifications are handled. There is also a certain risk of conflict. A research institution, a higher education institution, is at risk of getting a worse reputation if cheating and misconduct are revealed. It is therefore important and requested to set up a new committee at central, national level with the task of examining cases of misconduct in research. That is what the proposal proposes. Cases can be submitted to the Board by the HEI sending evidence, by other means of notification or by the Board itself initiating an investigation. But the responsibility to follow good research practice in their research will still rest heavily on the researcher himself, and this is clear from the bill. The overall responsibility will remain with the research leader, who also has to take action. The peer review with evaluations, trials and peer review is fundamental to the quality of research, and that is how it should remain. The legislative proposal also proposes a definition of misconduct. That is a good thing, and it has also been requested. Madam President, I would like Let me mention one more thing in this context. Irregularity in research can be criminal and should, of course, be reported to the police. It does not have to be that in the sense of the law, but just as in the case of criminal activities, preventive work is needed alongside the investigative and possibly punitive work. I think it is important to mention it even though I certainly do not have a package solution for it. I think we need to know more about what drives researchers to deviate from good practice in research. There are, of course, a lot of circumstances and also a lot of measures. The collegial control that I mentioned earlier is perhaps the most important thing. It needs protection. Perhaps it also needs to be strengthened. Openness and transparency throughout the research process is also an important factor. It's important to keep an eye on the incentives. Is there an unreasonable publication print? Could that be what drives scientists to push the boundaries? These are issues that are largely not on us, but more on the Academy itself, but I still think that they may be worth highlighting in this context. With this, Madam President, I would like to endorse the motion in the UbU21 report and reject the motion for a resolution.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-875	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a leading research nation, a nation where high-quality research, higher education and innovation lead to positive social development with enhanced welfare and competitiveness for the business community. To achieve this goal, free research must be protected while research policy must respond to global and national societal challenges. This is important, because we need new knowledge in order to create a stronger society in the long term. But for Sweden to be a leader in research, we need to be able to rely on research, on everything going right and on the results being reliable. No patient should be at risk of having treatments that are the result of cheating. Our research is free in the sense that research problems may be freely chosen, that research methods may be freely developed and that research results may be published freely. But with freedom comes a great responsibility for the scientists. Research must be carried out in an ethically acceptable manner, and the foundation of research ethics is the individual researcher's own moral judgment. Sweden has world-leading research, where the vast majority of researchers are doing very well with strong ethical compass. Unfortunately, we can also note that not all researchers follow good research practice. It is common for researchers to lie about their research, not openly report methods and results and steal research results from others. Over the past few years, awareness has increased throughout society that misconduct in research can have very serious consequences for individuals and society at large. The Macchiarini scandal showed this. This research fraud also leads to shortcomings in the reliability and quality of research. It is of course serious if research results based on cheating have been published and the results are the basis for norms and policy design or how processes and methods are designed. Negative consequences are particularly evident in the field of medical research, but also in other areas of research. I myself followed the Macchiarini scandal from outside, and I, like many others, was deeply moved and upset by what was happening. It is a frightening example of how research fraud can have serious negative consequences for individuals but also for research. For me and the government, the work against research fraud is therefore a high priority. The Macchiarini scandal should not happen again. It is important to point out, Madam President, that individual researchers and research leaders are responsible for ensuring that research is carried out in accordance with good research practice. A lively discussion on research ethics must therefore take place in all research activities. At the same time, we in the government and parliament have a great responsibility to ensure that there are clear and legally secure regulations. All citizens must be sure that research and health care are carried out in the right way. As has been said earlier in this debate, it has been pointed out on several occasions and there have been various signals that the current system for dealing with suspicions of misconduct in research has shortcomings in several areas. The government has therefore seen a clear need for increased preventive work to promote good practice in research and a new order to deal with misconduct. In the bill that the Riksdag is now debating and soon deciding on, the Government proposes clearer regulation in these areas. It's about time. Good research practice shall be promoted. The responsibility of researchers and research leaders for the research being carried out in accordance with good research practice is now clarified by the fact that it is written into law. Universities and colleges should no longer investigate themselves; there should always be an independent investigation. Therefore, a new Board will investigate and decide on misconduct in research. The system must be legally secure and provide protection and support to all those involved, both to those who have raised questions of suspicion of misconduct and to those against whom suspicions are raised. There should be a clear regulatory framework with a definition of misconduct in research and uniform rules on how we handle suspected misconduct. The system shall cover as much of the research as possible. The Government proposes that the regulations in addition to universities and higher education institutions should now also include state authorities, municipalities and county councils and individual education providers. This is a proposal for a new and more legally secure national management of suspected misconduct in research, aimed at detecting misconduct and at withdrawing or correcting false research results. In turn, this will contribute to increased reliability and quality of research. If Sweden is to be a leading research nation, people must be able to trust the research – that everything has gone right. We are strengthening this now. It is very good that the Swedish Parliament can take this decision in such broad agreement.
i-21v9UTigAFeGZZ2G2xakCN	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report No 17. It is based on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the Rural Programme 2014– 2020 and on a number of movements from the past autumn on various agricultural issues. I would first of all like to focus on the National Audit Office's report on the rural programme, where we are in favour of the government taking on board the criticism that has emerged and trying to review what is to happen during the next programming period of the rural programme, which should look at the needs of the countryside. Very good! It is about reducing the hassle and finding more results-driven forms in the upcoming programme. We should remember that the programme we are now leaving behind has been very heavy, difficult to manage and difficult to control and has led to a lot of hassle. I know that before we went into that programme we said that it would not be, and we are now saying that it should not be when we enter the next programming period. Now is the time to point out that this really is the case, so that we can reduce regulatory problems and unnecessary bureaucracy for Swedish agriculture. Madam President, I would like This programming period has also included other sad things: European aid has taken an enormous amount of time to get out for many farmers. Some farmers are still waiting for EU support for 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. This is therefore EU aid to which the farmer is entitled and has made correct applications, which have been fully completed in accordance with SAM rules. It is often money that relates to environmental values – environmental aid for natural pastures. In principle, it is a service that the farmer does to society when he handles these pastures and lives up to commitment and management plans to preserve biodiversity. It often costs the farmer quite a lot of money to manage these pastures. If you don't get your support money out then it becomes a pretty bad trend for this. The trend is even worse when the farmer does not get his grazing money and can manage the pasture and then gets a control from the county administrative board, which states that the pasture is not managed. The farmer may not have been able to afford the pasture. When the money has not come up for one, two, three or four years, there will soon be large sums missing for an industry that is rather hard hit by profitability concerns. Last year's drought didn't make it any better, of course. We often talk about increasing the competition status of Swedish agriculture, and that is great. But in my world we've been talking about this for both 15 and 20 years now, without it getting any better. It is rather the case that the profitability of Swedish agriculture is getting worse and worse. You get more and more vulnerable. During last summer's drought we saw very clearly that there are no reserves. There is no back-up or plan B for agriculture, because you are so hard hit by a pressured economy. When we say that we should increase the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture, I think now it is time to do the same. But then, my friends in this House, I think it will also be a question of making some difficult decisions. We may have grown stuck in things, and we may have to change certain costs and expenses and certain rules, which we really think are good but which, on the contrary, make it difficult for and hinder Swedish agriculture. We have adopted a food strategy in which we say that we should increase production and make it more attractive with Swedish food. Great! Then we must also include the political tools in this so that we can increase food production in Sweden. It has now been two years, Madam President, since we decided on the food strategy. I believe that many of the farmers have still not noticed any difference whatsoever. This summer, there will be a new food strategy action plan. But I do not think that this is enough for the farmer in the common sense. We need to do things that give farmers a belief in the future and make them feel that they can now invest for 25-30 years – because that is about the depreciation time of a new dairy farm. A company that chooses to expand here in Stockholm, on the other hand, has a depreciation period of maybe two or three years. It is now time for us to give farmers this opportunity. They deserve it; they are a hardworking profession. But they are also perhaps the most important part of Sweden when it comes to the transition to an environment- and climate-smart society. And what happens when we do not give profitability in Swedish agriculture? Well, we're pushing production out to countries where it's pretty questionable. We may push production out to countries where you don't even have any animal welfare law, while in Sweden we are rather burdened under harsh environmental and animal welfare laws, which the Swedish farmers are actually very proud to produce under. But we need to give them other carrots that increase their profitability. Our pastures and pastures in Sweden house an enormous number of species. It is the land in Sweden that houses the most red-listed species. These chips can only be managed by grazing mules. That is the only way to manage these pastures. In the party leader debate yesterday, the spokesperson of the Green Party said that he was so happy that meat consumption is falling and that consumption of vegetable food is rising. Yes, of course this is good, because it is better than importing questionable meat from parts of the world. As we talked about earlier, it can be very questionable. However, I think we need to problematise a little about this. When we choose Swedish beef from animals that have grazed Swedish natural pastures and have a climate load that is perhaps 50, 60 or 65 percent lower than, for example, imported beef, it is incredibly important. It is important for Swedish jobs, Swedish biodiversity and Swedish pastures. One must therefore problematise a little about this and not unilaterally see what is good or bad. One can also see the problem that vegetable foods are often imported and cultivated with a great need for irrigation. And water is becoming a fairly finite resource in society, especially for agriculture. So I think we need to see the whole picture and not say unilaterally that meat is bad and vegetables are good. You have to be able to see a little longer than your arm. Let me also say something about small-scale slaughterhouses and mobile slaughterhouses. We were reached by a very sad news story a couple of weeks ago that the only mobile slaughterhouse in Sweden, Hälsingestintan, had gone bankrupt. Hälsingestinttan broke new ground. It minimised animal transport and slaughtered the farmer on the farm. It didn't last. Now they went bankrupt. The money ran out. But it was actually a very good idea. It was a good thought and something that was right in time. That is why we need policy to make it easier for those who want small-scale slaughterhouses or perhaps new mobile slaughterhouses and yet give them the chance. I meet many times people who have smaller abattoirs and even mobile abattoirs. They say it's complicated and over-bureaucratic. Slaughterhouses that may slaughter a few thousand animals a year are compared to slaughterhouses that slaughter 10,000 animals a week. The requirements and the problems are the same, and there is a great need for administrative resources that smaller companies do not have. It is absolutely time that we looked at this. Madam President, I would like There are many things in this that are good. We have many good reservations from the Moderates, of course, but for the sake of simplicity I choose to apply only for reservation 15.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-913	Madam President, I would like The basic idea of the new EU common rules on agricultural aid is that they should be more targeted and less detailed and that the Member States should be given more space within the framework. That's good. This is in line with what the Swedish Democrats want and are pushing. It is certainly important to point out, as an opposition, what is not working and what it believes the government is doing wrong. But I think it is an equally important message to the people that the government within the rules of agricultural aid is mainly doing good work to negotiate to Sweden's pious people. The government listens to our recordings, and there are actually many issues where all parties feel the same. It is there that unites us that we stand up for Sweden and Swedish values. What I believe and hope we all stand for is: More target management and more room for manoeuvre for the Member States.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-919	Swedish farmers are forerunners, and the rest of the EU should follow suit. Swedish farmers should not suffer competitive disadvantages. A certain redistribution from direct aid to targeted aid seems to us all to be a good idea, I think. The reason is that targeted aid receives greater environmental benefit per crown. The Swedish Democrats also note that overpayment of aid as direct payments leads to a relative increase in land prices and a lock-in effect. If there is no need to produce agricultural products in order to receive aid, this means that many land is used only extensively. When active farmers need more land and it is not sold or leased out by passive landowners, this lock-in effect occurs. This may lead to a slight reduction in direct payments for active farmers. Almost all parties agree that the EU budget should be reduced. This necessarily means that the agricultural budget cannot be constant either. However, greater cuts should be made elsewhere. We Swedish democrats do not want farmers to have a deteriorating situation. The solution lies, on the one hand, in national co-financing and, on the other, in other measures to increase profitability. And it is here somewhere, in view of the conditions of agriculture, that the differences between parties are beginning to be seen. We want a substantial reduction in diesel tax, we want a reduction in the employer's tax and we want grazing compensation for dairy cows and more – things that I'm always going on about. I am also going on about how important it is to increase the profitability of agriculture. I argue that this is the question of fate for Swedish agriculture and, in the long run, for Swedish rural areas. Low profitability makes so much more impossible, and high profitability opens up opportunities for the economy, rural areas and the environment. We Swedish democrats strongly recommend that the rules be adapted to Swedish conditions. It's important. We know how crazy it was last time when the definition of pasture land almost described a southern or central European pasture. It is a lot about flexibility and indicators. Target management and greater freedom for Member States are based in the current rule proposal on the fact that the European Commission is monitoring the progress of Member States using certain indicators. These indicators restrict the degree of freedom. We are three parties that want to enable goal management more than the others, as I understand it: the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. We Swedish democrats, however, go the longest. We have already pointed out that the indicators proposed by the Commission do not measure impact, but rather the size of the measures. It is about how much money you spend and how many actors receive money. The Swedish National Audit Office agrees and adds that this also applies to parts of the national follow-up. Instead, using indicators that really measure results and effects would improve the follow-up of results and impacts and contribute positively to the analysis work done at the Swedish Board of Agriculture. At the same time, it should be recognised that it can certainly often be more difficult to collect measurement values for indicators that are closer to impact and results, and it risks leading to more administration if they are not chosen with care and taking into account conditions in Sweden. Indicators are therefore best chosen in consultation with industry, authorities and other expertise in Sweden. To make this possible, the Swedish Democrats believe that during the negotiations in Brussels, the government should work for flexible wordings for important indicators, so that a national space is created to develop them. The indicators will be crucial for Sweden's levels of freedom. We are therefore acting as we promised in the EU election movement and earlier in a way that gives more power back to Sweden. There is much else important to mention where there is a different degree of consensus in the Riksdag. For example, like the Swedish National Audit Office, we propose that the government should consider whether it is possible to simplify administration and increase the achievement of objectives in the next programming period of the rural development programme by combining areas of intervention in joint budgets. It's too sprawling today. We also believe that the government should set up a rapid investigation of national needs for rural development in the light of the vulnerability that became apparent through the 2018 drought. We believe that farmers who have been affected by wrong deductions should be entitled to recover the money when obvious errors have been made by the paying authority. We believe that Sweden should work to ensure that small deviations from the basic conditions should not give rise to strong sanctions. As has been pointed out here, we also support the fact that Sweden should have a policy to enable small-scale slaughterhouses and so on. Let me dwell for a moment on something we may be alone in. It is about the view of the relationship between production in Sweden and production abroad in terms of the climate. We want to increase the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture. A key part of this is to reduce costs. The fastest way to do this is by reducing diesel tax, but much more needs to be done, as I have said before. Increased Swedish food production makes a difference for the climate on a global level. Unfortunately, this does not apply to many other climate initiatives in Sweden. Increased Swedish production makes a difference, for Swedish agriculture produces much less greenhouse gas emissions than competitors. When imports decrease, other countries' emissions and total global emissions decrease – that's what matters. This applies even if increased production would lead to slightly increased emissions per hectare in Sweden. In addition, there is far too little biofuels in the world, which means that an over-screwed increase in demand risks resulting in an increase in rather than a reduction in climate gas emissions at global level. It is, of course, influenced by several factors. Use biofuels in the transport industry first! Once the missing technology solutions have arrived, farmers can change. Increased production in Sweden also brings with it, as a bonus, less use of pesticides and antibiotics, better animal welfare and reduced loss of biodiversity globally. It's a win-win solution. Drop the pool edge! Otherwise, you won't get all the way into the tile! Sweden must stop Brör Bror-Synthesis. Apply EU regulations in a way that provides the best possible competitive conditions for Sweden within the framework of EU rules! Make up with Swedish naivety and realise what the EU is! Finally: In Sweden there should be space for both the old and the new. Preserve Swedish values, animal welfare, biodiversity, landraces, landraces and cultural heritage, including our unique pastures! Develop new technologies and research! Use modern plant breeding! See new connections! Get the crops we need! There is no contradiction between a balanced policy that takes account of all the consequences, of everything that is important and not just of certain values, focusing on efficiency and avoidance of symbolism. I support reservations 2 and 7.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-938	Madam President, I would like In Sweden everyone should be able to live and realize their dreams no matter where in the country they live. The basis for this is that small and medium-sized enterprises have the opportunity to create jobs, that there are good roads and communications, and that there are more housing in smaller towns, in larger cities, in medium-sized towns and in villages – yes, right everywhere. Development throughout the country does not mean uniformity. When power moves closer to the people involved, it needs to be equivalent results but not the same. It is important that power should be moved in this way, because then there will be very exciting developments. Development is needed to create attractiveness and creativity for long-term sustainable development throughout the country. We want to create the world's most modern countryside and the world's greenest cities. In this way, the whole country contributes all the time, and it gives all people the opportunity to grow. Madam President, I would like The countryside is the soul of the Center Party. We want jobs all over the country. That is precisely why we are working to help create more jobs both in growing companies and in green industries. An important part of this is the rural programme that we now have a review of, in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's report. With the help of the rural programme we have the opportunity to strengthen the activities that provide jobs in rural areas and that provide us with Swedish milk, Swedish meat and Swedish vegetables and also provide open landscapes and living areas. The rural development programme also contributes to achieving the environmental objectives we have set ourselves. When the current rural development programme was negotiated, the Center Party was the driving force to ensure as strong a rural programme as possible. The evaluation carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office will therefore be very important to learn from for the design of the next period. As John Widegren described earlier, the intentions have always been good, but unfortunately they have not been able to achieve the goals that they would like to achieve. This is also pointed out by the Swedish National Audit Office in its report. The achievement of the objectives has been very difficult to measure. That is why we want to develop the rural development programme in different ways so that it will also contribute to the achievement of objectives. Unfortunately, the Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that the Government's design of the rural development programme has contributed to a programme structure that makes it difficult to achieve the programme's objectives. That's anything but good. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that the EU has a comprehensive and detailed regulatory framework but that there is actually a national space to do something of. Unfortunately, the government chose to include a large number of measures in the programme structure. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that this has made implementation difficult. This has led to increased administrative costs and delayed payments of aid. It is serious when the Swedish National Audit Office points out that there is limited information about the achievement of the objectives. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, this helps to reduce the possibility of adjusting the programme in order to improve it to the next programming period. Yes, the Swedish National Audit Office points to a number of shortcomings in the management of support measures. Among other things, long processing times and long waiting for support for applicants are highlighted. It has created mistrust among entrepreneurs and rural people. Many words: We have lost faith in the system. The Center Party believes that restoring confidence in the system, including shorter processing times, reduced complexity and faster payments, should be a top priority in future rural programmes. Madam President, I would like Last year, 2018, work started to develop a strategic plan. It is perhaps not surprising because the programming period is coming to an end and because one probably knew some of the criticisms that the Swedish National Audit Office would direct towards the design of the programme. We do not know when it will be ready, because negotiations are under way. But I sincerely hope that today there is the kind of evidence that the Swedish National Audit Office is calling for in order to be able to achieve a much greater goal fulfilment and have the opportunity to follow it up during the next programming period. I very much hope that the representatives of the two government parties – Malin Larsson from the Social Democrats and Maria Gardfjell from the Green Party – will be able to shed some light on how the government parties will proceed, not least for all of you who are currently listening to this debate. You have a great interest in rural development throughout Sweden. And we depend on rural areas continuing to develop. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that regional influence has been broken. The Center Party shares that picture. As a decentralist party, we believe that as much power as possible should be local and regional. We pushed very hard in the regional negotiations in 2016 for more state functions to be decentralised and for more responsibility to be given to the elected regional parliaments responsible for regional development and growth. The Center Party therefore wants the government in the preparation of future rural development programmes to review which parts of the rural development programme can be transferred to the regions. Perhaps the government's representatives today can also give some answers to that. Madam President, I would like In the January agreement, the Center Party has been the driving force for the whole of Sweden to develop. This applies, in particular, to the area we are debating today. Sweden's backbone – rural – contributes a lot, almost everything we all need to live. In this context, I would therefore also like to highlight the decision on the food strategy for Sweden, which concerns, among other things, increased production and increased profitability and competitiveness. I wish it could become more real. It has been just over two years since the decision. Many farmers today feel that the strategy has not led to the political decisions that they had expected and that would make a difference at farm level. Therefore, it is now incredibly important that Swedish policy goes from words to action in relation to the food strategy. In the January agreement that I mentioned, the Center Party, together with the Liberals, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, has pushed for measures to strengthen the competitiveness and profitability of Swedish farmers. It resulted in an agreement on a strong peasant package, and implementation is under negotiation. This is important. We have great opportunities for Swedish agriculture, Swedish forestry and all the green industries in our country – not only to provide Sweden with food and biomaterials, but also to be an international player. The world's population is growing, and arable land is falling. We have a responsibility to ensure that our clean agriculture is as profitable and competitive as it can only be with a good policy. This applies not least to animal welfare, public health and the importance of using as little antibiotics as possible. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 5. It is about what I have already described when it comes to the importance of making decisions in our regions, close to our different rural areas, which are the absolutely crucial part of our country for our opportunities to eat us satisfied, give energy with new exciting materials and so on and create growth in all the companies in the green industries where soil and forest are the very backbone. In the Center Party Sweden, the whole country needs to contribute, and there is no conflict between urban and rural areas. A local policy where decisions are made as close to people as possible allows for a development of equal opportunities throughout our country where you can solve the same challenge in different ways based on the conditions – for the whole country to live!
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-955	Madam President, I would like I agree with the reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 12. We are talking tonight about the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the rural development programme. In this House, we have put together the objectives of the food strategy. We've talked about them before, and I'm going to do it a little bit now, too. You might think I'm nagging about this, but I think it's important to talk about the food strategy. The objectives are important, as many farmers felt that the overall agricultural policy for many years actually meant that Swedish agriculture would be phased out. Now we have common policy objectives to develop and strengthen agriculture. It is, in fact, something new, and I think it is perceived as very positive. We are talking about increasing profitability, strengthening competitiveness and increasing Swedish self-sufficiency in food. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I meet many farmers who say that they do not notice what we talked about, i.e. the goals, but that it has just become a lot of beautiful words and no workshop. I wish that the government will take this on board and that criticism goes into its head so that action is taken. I really wish, because there are so many with me who really want it to start turning for Swedish agriculture. One issue that has been one of the most criticised over the years is the long-awaited payment of EU payments. I started here in Parliament Magnus 2014, and I can say that farmers called me almost immediately and said: I'm not getting the compensations on time. There are many Swedish farmers who are affected, and for some it is about as much money as half a year's income that has not been paid out. And what's the problem? Well, it's computers that don't work. It is, of course, not sustainable, but the government must take steps here to ensure that farmers' liquidity and creditworthiness do not deteriorate. It is not reasonable that farmers should be affected to the extent that they have actually done so. We Christian Democrats believe that the government's obligations towards individual traders should be given higher priority in the event of administrative problems. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the regulatory framework for current rural programmes has been more complicated than necessary. The government must ensure that the regulatory framework is as simple as possible in future programmes. I know it was the previous government that did this, but nevertheless it is important to take on board the views of the Swedish National Audit Office. The regulatory framework is enormous in agriculture. If a farmer has milk production and, in addition, cereals on the farm, we are talking about some 900 rules to relate to. I can't help but tell you about the farmer I met in Nässjö, because I think it says so much about what the situation is. He told me on a farmer's breakfast, Magnus, every morning when I wake up I think: What rule will I break today? Are you in? It's terrible that you should feel that way, but there are so many rules and so many wrongs you can make. This isn't good enough. This must be a change. We Christian Democrats want an investigation to be set up to facilitate and simplify the regulatory burden. When will the farmer have time to be a farmer? I think we should think about that. Madam President, I would like I had hoped that there would be broad agreement that the words of the environmental code would be changed if agriculture were to be an environmentally dangerous activity. I know that we are going to talk about this in the next debate, but I would still like to include this, too, because it is absolutely absurd for me that the word Environmentally affected, it can be, but dangerous? Here we see a difference between how different countries view food production. In Finland, it is a matter of over 80% self-sufficiency. In Denmark it is a very important export product – it is business. And here in Sweden, food production is an environmentally dangerous activity. That's what I say. I asked the Minister for Rural Affairs a question about this, and I noticed that she also thought it was strange. I hope that there can be a change, because as long as the government and its support parties do not want to change the environmental code, it is really just empty words.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-967	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal in the committee's report as a whole. Two thirds of the country's municipalities are sparsely populated or rural municipalities. Together, they form an enormous surface. There are many citizens living in Swedish rural areas, and this means that the issues of rural areas not only concern a minister in the government, a committee here in Parliament or a committee in the municipalities and regions, but rural areas are crucial for the whole country and affect us all. There is not only one countryside in Sweden. Many of us who are debating here today are rural people themselves who represent different parts of the country and also different parts of the countryside. Our Swedish countryside differs from north to south, from east to west and from coastal to inland. For us Social Democrats it is obvious that people should be able to live and work throughout Sweden. In a stronger society, there are resources and power for an active rural policy that exploits all of Sweden's potential. It creates a safer Sweden that also stays together. But the napkin sketch for budget voted by M and KD with the eager support of SD in December was devastating for rural areas. Gone was the majority of a reform space of nearly 20 billion. Instead of strong investments in a Sweden that holds together, we received a sixth job tax deduction. Madam President, I would like In May, I accompanied our rural minister Jennie Nilsson around Västernorrland when she visited us on her trip to Sweden. We visited several important activities and met many rural people in the rural municipalities of Ånge and Sollefteå. They were proud of their home country, but we also met with anger that the distances between us people are growing and an experience that society is not always able to deliver. We can also see and hear this in the uprisings that are now making rural voices heard. At the same time, we see a trend break in the debate but also in politics. The former S-led government began to reverse this leap. It appointed the Rural Committee, which worked out 75 proposals for how the whole of Sweden will grow. These include investments in assisted area A and broadband roll-out. The previous government also worked out a broad, anchored food strategy. However, we must continue to listen to these committed citizens and show them that we are serious about our efforts and that rural areas, with their citizens and natural resources, are important for the development of the whole country. A living countryside is a priority for us Social Democrats. In the January agreement, the Social Democrats, together with the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Liberals, highlight rural areas in several points, especially in the section on the whole country's growth. Our policy will benefit the whole country. That is why we will build and equip roads and railways. We will build homes and introduce a distance-based and means of transport-independent travel allowance. We also want to expand the digital infrastructure and open more service offices. And we do not want to plac any new authorities in Stockholm during the term of office. In order to create better conditions for housing in good locations and for economic activities in rural areas, it should be considerably easier to build beachfronts in rural areas. There are municipalities in our country that have more lakes than residents. They will of course be allowed to use these fantastic seafronts to build but also to attract more visitors and new residents. An important part of rural development is the rural development programme. It consists of support and compensation for the development of rural areas. Environment, sustainable development and innovation are priorities. As others before me have mentioned, the Swedish National Audit Office has now reviewed the programme and submitted its observations and recommendations for achieving the objectives. I think we all agree with the Swedish National Audit Office's observation that the complexity of the programme structure with many different actions and areas of intervention and the extensive reporting of results have meant that the management has taken far too long and has been too resource-intensive. It has to get better. Madam President, I would like It is very important that a discussion about how the whole of Sweden will grow does not stop at issues that apply here and now. The development around us brings new conditions for housing and companies in rural areas. We are now seeing a strong development towards a bio-based economy where biomass from agriculture, the sea and forest contributes to new innovative products and jobs. This development is ongoing in Sweden and can also help connect rural, urban and urban areas. We also see the emergence of an increasingly digitised society. It creates new conditions that we have only seen the beginning of. Another example is climate change and population growth in the world. How do these changes affect food production and demand globally? And what will that mean for Sweden? Madam President, I would like We need to look to the rural areas of the future. They belong to our young people. I see that there are many things that grow out in the countryside when I visit entrepreneurs, associations and schools. Then I also encounter incredibly much positive and many young people who are now investing in rural areas. I have told you earlier in this pulpit about the young farmers who are investing in my home district. At the beginning of this week, I visited the Natural Agricultural Upper Secondary School in Nordvik at home in Västernorrland. You know what? Finally, after years of decreased search, it has turned. They now have 38 applicants in the autumn compared to 10 two years ago. These students and their older comrades, who today take the student and sing about their bright future, are our future farmers and animal carers. Many of them will operate and live in the countryside. Yeah, I think they have a bright future. These young people should be able to expect that society is strong also in rural areas, that health care is there when it is needed, that school provides equal opportunities for all young people and that society is safe. Only in this way can the whole of Sweden live and grow. We politicians must give priority to rural areas. The January agreement with all its positive points for rural areas will be implemented. We need more targeted efforts to increase growth and redistribute for a secure welfare. We need to implement a rural tax reform that increases justice and closes the gaps in our country. To achieve this, we need a strong society and a broad, anchored rural policy. We need investment rather than tax cuts and an active rural policy that exploits all of Sweden's potential. It creates a safer Sweden that stays together.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-984	Madam President, I would like There's an eternal nagging about this napkin sketch. I think it was a pretty good budget anyway. After all, the government's proposal was not good enough to be voted through in this House, unfortunately. But that is not what I was going to debate. I would first like to commend Malin Larsson for raising an important issue: the supply of skills in rural areas. I think it's going to be extremely important. That's why I'm also happy to hear that the search pressure for the Natural Agricultural Upper Secondary School is going up again. You can hear from the farmers in Sweden that they do not get the personnel. We also need to find ways to stimulate our new Swedes to enter the green industries, so that they can also find their way to the natural agricultural upper secondary schools and can feel that there may be a future for them. Our new Swedes see it many times as low status to work in agriculture. We must reverse this trend. I believe that we can best turn it around by finding greater profitability for agriculture. The increased profitability is one of the components of the food strategy. That is why I have a question for Malin Larsson. What are the simplest concrete things? We need to get them out now. When this parliamentary term has passed, it is five years since we voted on the food strategy. What if we have not managed to reverse the trend and increase production in five years when we have taken such a revolutionary decision as the food strategy is? Which things does Malin Larsson know are the most important to really get muscle behind the strategy?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-988	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, John Widegren! There was a lot that you had time to talk about. As far as the budget is concerned, we have completely different views. If we are to be able to make investments, we also need money to do so. We Social Democrats are looking at this in a completely different way. We would have needed the money that the sixth job tax credit took to make investments in rural areas rather than increasing the gap between pensioners and wage earners and between urban and rural areas. The supply of expertise is extremely important, in several areas. We're not just gonna find farmers. It is also about animal health care providers and all that. So there is an incredible breadth, just as the countryside itself has an incredible breadth. It's really important. When I was at the Naturbruksgymnasiet in Nordvik at home in Västernorrland it was gratifying to hear that they have a lot going on with investments in YH-educations and other adult education in the field. This also applies to other rural areas, such as gardens and so on. It was therefore very positive and very gratifying. I'm really glad they have more applicants. Another important part of rural areas and skills is the forest. Together with Jennie Nilsson, I visited Skedom, our forestry high school. There too you can see that the skills are needed. They would also invest in adult education together with SCA up there. Now I have only a few seconds left of my speaking time. I would say something about increased profitability, but I will have to come back to it in the next line.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-994	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Malin Larsson, for the answer – at least what was made! Malin Larsson points out that the state lacks money to be able to invest in rural areas. I mean it's exactly the opposite. Private companies should be given the opportunity to invest in rural areas. In this way they can increase production. I hope that I will receive an answer to that in the next speech. It is not by moving state activities into the countryside or by using government money that we make the farmers feel that they want to invest and can believe in their production. At least in my world, a farmer who is thinking of spending the next ten or fifteen years on a major venture wants to know that he has long-term rules of ownership rules. He also wants long-term rules of play so that he knows that fees and taxes are not too high. He wants to reduce red tape and red tape. He also wants to know that the public sector around him chooses to procure what he produces. Does Malin Larsson think that agriculture needs to reduce costs so that we end up at more equal levels with our European competitor countries? In Germany, for example, there are almost half of Sweden's fuel costs today, but we are competing in the same market. Is it a way forward to consider initially reducing fuel costs but perhaps also reducing staff costs?
i-5frHx99iTt4n7SQiHhtidk	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, John Widegren, for the questions! If we had not had a sixth job tax deduction, we would have had even more money for rural areas. Rural areas consist not only of farmers, but also of everything else. We see a demographic development that means that we will need much more money for elderly care and so on. There, rural municipalities need a lot of support. You also talked about what I did not have time to talk about, that is, increased profitability. It's really important. An important part is that we Swedes make sure to consume Swedish goods ourselves. We Social Democrats have put forward a proposal on the labelling of meat in restaurants so that consumers and restaurant visitors can choose Swedish clearly and easily. Unfortunately, you do not agree with this. Otherwise it would be a way for everyone to choose Swedish when we go out to eat. We can do that in business today. Above all, it is about that we ourselves demand and buy more Swedish. Sweden has fantastic products that are made out in our agriculture. The Minister has also spoken about this in the House in the past. We also see an increased export of our premium goods, which is what it is all about. This could also lead to increased profitability. I think it's a matter of working in several different places. There is not a single solution. But I certainly do not believe that reduced taxes are the solution.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1002	I would like to remind you that the President speaks.
i-9v367G38wMWW31mApj9pDV	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Malin Larsson, for your speech. I heard Malin Larsson say that the Social Democrats and the government have turned the ship around for the countryside. I wonder if that means that the government will not raise the list of fuel taxes after the turn of the year. We have already asked Minister Baylan about this today, but he ducked and did not answer. But since Malin Larsson made an approach and said that it was important to have a living countryside and that the Social Democrats are really working for it, I hope that I can find out about it from her instead.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1005	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Staffan Eklöf, for the question! I certainly think that the Social Democrats have turned the ship around. As I said in my main speech, we began to turn the ship around during the last parliamentary term. We did so both through the 75-point programme drawn up by the Parliamentary Rural Committee and, above all, through the food strategy. The Social Democrats managed to achieve a broad consensus on this in this House. It is extremely important for Sweden and Swedish agriculture in the future. We politicians must give priority and make decisions. Then the decisions we make will also be translated. It's going to be concrete out in the country. That's what matters. I think we're starting to see the results of that now. But there's still a lot of work to be done. What is particularly pleasing, as we can hear today, is that many of us agree quite well that rural areas are important. It is important, however, that we show it in our efforts and in the decisions we take in this House.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1008	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer, although unfortunately it did not contain an answer. I didn't get an answer to my question. The food strategy is a very important document. The greatest value of this is that it is the first time that everyone recognises the importance of high production in Sweden. As has been said before, it must also become a workshop of the whole, and it has become quite a small workshop. Let me come back to my question. I really want an answer to the question: will the government list the fuel tax after the turn of the year? That's not an unreasonable question. We're all on budgets and we've come a bit on our way. The answer to such a question should already have crystallized. I hope that all people out in the countryside who are worried can get an answer here and now from Malin Larsson.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1012	Madam President, I would like I'll try to give you an answer, Staffan. Unfortunately, however, I cannot precede the government and answer what the government will do with the fuel tax. It is also important to remember that the tax is a small part of the price that is on the gas station when you think yourself. The fact that the tax on fuel would be the only solution to save the countryside is something that is constantly heard from Staffan Eklöf and from the Swedish Democrats. It feels like a way to cling and don't want to go into the future. You seem to think this will save the countryside. I certainly do not agree with that. Just as we Social Democrats, together with our cooperation parties, do in the January agreement, we must have a number of different initiatives in favour of the whole of the countryside.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1015	Madam President, I would like I had the great privilege of being involved in negotiating the food strategy with the then rural minister. Of course, there were a lot of words, but when we negotiated, it was important to talk about what would be in it. You can agree. As someone was in on, the idea is that over time it should have a red thread, regardless of which parties are here or what the government looks like. We talked about increasing profitability and strengthening competitiveness and increasing our self-sufficiency in food. One point we raised at the time was that the regulatory framework should be reduced. I was going to ask Malin Larsson how the government thinks about reducing the regulatory framework.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1017	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus, for the question! Reducing regulatory and regulatory constraints is something that we all think is important. Of course, it should not be complicated for our citizens and our farmers out there. It should be right and proper but still easy. Everyone also agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the rural development programme. It has taken far too much administrative time and burden. This too costs money. We clearly want the money to go out where they are useful, in the soil. We agree on that. When it comes to exactly how it should be done, there are several different parts, and that belongs to several different authorities and so on. It's wide all the way down to the county administrative level. But when I have been out and met farmers who had to do with the county board, they have been incredibly grateful and happy about the help and support they have received. It's been really smooth and easy. So there are places where it works very well too, and that is what we learn from and take with us.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1020	Madam President, I would like I thank Malin Larsson for his answer. Malin Larsson spoke of a bright future for our farmers. I thought it was nice. I really wish for a bright future. But I don't notice it. Unfortunately, the many farmers I visit do not notice a bright future. It's still very tough. There are still about four or five dairy farmers leaving each week because it is not profitable enough. The Member spoke in a speech here that the Government had 75 points in the Rural Committee. They talk about the food strategy being good. What is experienced is that there is a lot of talk and very little workshop. However, I was going to ask Mrs Malin Larsson again, and she will answer as best she can: How does the government intend to implement this? What time period are we talking about? Is it to be introduced within six months, during the term of office or until 2030? What's the government thinking?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1023	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Oscarsson for the questions again. Much of what we are going to do is in the January agreement, which is under negotiation. What we have been very clear about is that the January agreement is to be implemented, and we stand by that. Magnus Oscarsson and his party sat at the government for many years, but then, for example, there was no food strategy. We succeeded in doing so during the last parliamentary term, when it was a social democratic-led government. I think we have taken many steps, and I think we are doing a lot. We fully agree that there should be a difference out there for our farmers. They're the ones who should know. When I'm out meeting farmers, I don't really get this bleak picture. I'm glad I can't share that. I have met young farmers who really dare to invest, who have visions of the future and who have long-term plans for how to continue to develop their agriculture. It's incredibly pleasing. We also need to see this politically in the long term. There shouldn't be any duplicating here and now, just as I was in my main speech, but it's important to see it in the long term. It is important to see what the future has to tell and keep up with. It's incredibly important in the future. It is gratifying, as I said before, that we still seem to agree quite a lot on rural areas. As with the food strategy, where we had a broad agreement, I think it is important for rural areas that we work together to help each other and do the best possible thing. Then I think we can do the best we can.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1028	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the rural programme, which entered into force in 2014. We have heard from the pulpit several party representatives, including from the Center Party, criticise the government a little. It may be good to remember that it was the Center Party that had the Rural Ministry post when the programme was developed. In one area, I think the Swedish National Audit Office is very kind. This concerns the shortcomings in the IT system developed by the Swedish Board of Agriculture. It has been delayed and has failed in functionality. There are still farmers who have not received support for 2015 and the coming years. The errors that have been made damage the credibility of our Swedish authorities. Madam President, I would like Maybe it's a good question to criticize an accountant. But I had actually expected a somewhat deeper analysis and clearer requirements from the Swedish National Audit Office in this area. Nevertheless, it is almost scandalous that farmers in Sweden have not received compensation and support and that some have been forced to take up additional bank loans in order to make it through to the payment of the aid. I think it is particularly bad that the payments have not given priority to the farmers of nature. For agricultural policy to become a real force for conversion to fossil-free agriculture, a much greater share than today must go to rural development, environmental compensation, conversion to organic farming and measures with high climate, natural and environmental benefits. Today, around 80% of agricultural aid goes to around 20% of farms. The Green Party believes that direct payments should be reduced and that environmental benefits should be increased, so that ecosystem services and biodiversity efforts are rewarded even more. With regard to the benefits linked to environmental and climate benefits, it is important that the definition is done well enough for the aid to have the desired effect. We want Europe as a whole to pay off from conventional to ecological and fossil-free farming. I would like to take this opportunity to raise an issue that I often get from the opposition parties on the right: why does the Green Party want to promote organic farming? The answer is twofold. The first part is: the food strategy indicates that we should have a market-driven agriculture, and the demand for organic food is greater than supply. Increased organic production is well placed to create increased competitiveness in Swedish agriculture and in the food industry. The second part is: there is a wide range of benefits with organic farming. I will mention a few: increased biodiversity, better for pollinating insects, no chemical pesticides in the wells, important climate measures, including refraining from fertilizers and reducing the need for fossil energy, reduced risk of nutrient leakage, reduced environmental impact from imports, stronger animal welfare, minor problems with antibiotic risks, grazing-based production, important for tourism and farm shops, additional payments to farmers, benefits for the working environment, an innovation engine for sustainable agriculture and more. Madam President, I would like It's summer now. And what nature is more associated with Swedish summer than flowering meadows and pastures? Gulliviva, almond blossom, catfoot and blue violet – all found in the pastures. For hundreds and indeed thousands of years agriculture has created these species-rich habitats and varied landscapes through cultivation, mowing and grazing. From the 1950s, agriculture has changed strongly due to external energy sources and intensification. Variation in the agricultural landscape has been reduced to enable large machines, and pre-industrial unfertilised pastures are increasingly less used in production. That is why we have lost 98% of the meadows and pastures that existed in the mid-1900s. But it is in the remaining 2% of soils that biodiversity is at its best. Modern agriculture, on the other hand, offers many opportunities through efficient machines, good transport opportunities, rational animal husbandry and so on. Environmental compensation and investment aid for the restoration of natural pastures are crucial for preserving biodiversity. Thanks to agricultural aid, we have been able to stem the rapid loss of natural habitats, which have disappeared since the 1950s. I have travelled around Uppsala County with the natural foundations in Sweden. Upplandstiftelsen has during the last 15 years developed cooperation with 144 farmers and secured the management of 2,700 hectares of pastures and forest pastures. This represents as much as 35 per cent of Uppsala County's land area with particularly high natural values. Environmental payments have been made with a number of problems. It has reduced efficiency, and sometimes it has even damaged the values to be preserved with the environmental compensation. In the current support period, the Uppland Foundation considers that the rules on environmental compensation and restoration aid have deteriorated so badly that agricultural aid is losing its function of preserving the natural and cultural environmental values of the agricultural landscape. It's serious. Since the Swedish National Audit Office calls us for strategic analysis and to really invest in priority areas, we now have the opportunity to improve the environmental compensation. There are four crucial requirements to make for work in the future. Priority shall be given to the replacement of valuable habitats listed in Natura 2000 or national inventories. The compensation must go to proper management so that the wrong measures are not taken. We shall promote stability in the regulatory framework and a long-term perspective. There is a need for broad political agreement here. But it is also necessary to look at the conditions of the entire farm and not just at a single pasture. It requires less hassle, easier handling and less arbitrariness. From the Environmental Party we see that there are good reasons for securing the high natural values of the agricultural landscapes in the future. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by saying a few words about the horse industry. Today there are 360 000 horses in Sweden. There are more horses than dairy cows. Most of the horses are close to urban areas. The horse sector consists of companies, non-profit associations and people who own and have horse as a recreational interest. It has a socio-economic turnover of SEK 46 billion per year. There are 30,000 jobs in the sector. Half a million people engage in horse sports as leisure activities. Here the Green Party believes that we really need to strengthen Sweden's overall strategies for the horse industry. It needs to be done with horsepower. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report and wish you a happy summer!
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1051	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask Maria Gardfjell some questions. You're bringing this up with compensations that don't come on time. That's a very good thing to say. You're telling me it's a scandal. I agree with the honourable Member there 100%. Where, however, we do not agree, as it seems, the Green Party does not want to change the environmental code which classes agriculture as environmentally dangerous activity. That's what it says today. I know it's very troubling that it says so. I would have liked us to have a majority in the committee for an amendment. There are many in the agricultural industry who are very concerned that when they go out into the barn they are doing environmentally dangerous activities. It's very tough. My question to the honourable Member is: what do you say about that? Why does the Green Party say no to this?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1055	Madam President, I would like Thank you for Magnus Oscarsson's question. I really think this is a scandal. We have farmers in Sweden who are extremely durable. They have had a great ambition to understand that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has had these problems, and they can bear it. I don't think many countries have as tough farmers as Sweden has in that sense. But it hasn't been good. At the same time, we should point out that in recent years the government has really drawn attention to this issue. Funds have been made available to the Swedish Board of Agriculture. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has received an extra SEK 60 million to deal with the problems more quickly. The Government has also appointed a Board of Directors of the Swedish Board of Agriculture to ensure that the Swedish Board of Agriculture operates in the most efficient way. At the same time, I can understand that when the Swedish Board of Agriculture has done as it has done, an outsourcing of the IT operation, it can be very difficult to get to grips with the problems. The most important thing for the next programming period is that it must not be handled so badly again. We must agree on that. Madam President, I would like With regard to Magnus Oscarsson's second question, it is part of the debate on the next report. I intend to answer that question in my speech. I will refrain from answering that question at this stage. But you'll get answers if you're still listening.
i-9ktc7ebCsgPSecTDnT5wgf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria, for your answer! Nevertheless, I would like to try to get an answer to the question. The honourable Member can imagine the situation of the farmers who are out in their barn. For example, a dairy farmer should think: I am now doing environmentally hazardous activities. That's not how it thinks. Madam President, I would like It is, of course, thinking: this is food. That is a good thing and a good thing. I'll make it. Milk cone will bring out milk that can become a file tomorrow, or when it becomes. I think it's incredibly important that we have a change. If the honourable Member can mention something that she intends to say in the next debate, thank you for that.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1063	Madam President, I would like I can give a little teaser for what's coming. Sweden obviously has a fantastically good environmental legislation in many ways. One of those things is that we really ensure that we focus on the environmental risks that exist for soil, water and air. It is undeniably the case that agriculture and very good activities such as health care and many other things are subject to the requirements of the environmental code. I do not think that we should sweep under the carpet, Madam President, that agriculture too is dealing with large quantities of chemicals and manure, and that must be handled properly.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1065	Madam President, I would like The issue of agricultural subsidies is very worrying. I very much hope that when we enter the next programming period we will get away from that. It will be a form of legal uncertainty for farmers to go and wait for their money to which they are entitled for a long time. I am thinking about what it would be like if government officials did not get their salary for four years. It would look pretty bad. But that is not really what I wanted to talk about. Madam President, I would like The Green Party is turning for organic production. I have all the respect for that. I would like it to be chosen to turn more for Swedish production. There is no black or white when it comes to organic versus conventional production. Both production methods have their advantages, especially when they occur within Sweden's borders. Demand was mentioned. The demand in Sweden for organic products is actually declining – believe it or not! I can see myself as a good example. I usually use a lot of natural pastures, where I preserve biodiversity and produce natural pastures. I'm a conventional farmer – I have conventional farming – and I think I contribute a lot more to biodiversity than many organic producers in my neighborhood do because of what I'm doing. In addition, organic producers can sometimes use conventional seed when the organic is finished. They may use conventional manure from free-range laying hens, free-range sows or other conventional animals in organic production. It's not black or white. We must raise our eyes and start talking about Swedish production, because conventional Swedish and organic Swedish production is so much better than that of many other countries. Madam President, I would like the Green Party to take this on board once and for all and not set any more production targets or the like.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1071	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mr Widegren very much for his commitment, not least in terms of natural behaviour. It is an extremely important area where Swedish farmers, both conventional and ecological, do a horse job – although it is usually about cows and sheep grazing. What is important when it comes to Swedish agriculture is that we get an increase in agriculture in Sweden and that we really take advantage of the agricultural land, pastures and mowing grounds that exist in Sweden. We have had a major change in Swedish agriculture since the 1950s, as I mentioned in my speech. There has been a great rationalisation of agriculture. This has been both positive and negative. On average, organic farmers run no less agriculture than conventional farmers. But now we see that there is a need to strengthen the entire rural area and the whole of Sweden's agriculture, and then the ecological operation fits quite well. This applies to the profitability of individual farmers, as well as to the profile of strengthening opportunities for local products, the link with the food industry and small-scale food management. We have visited the Committee on Environment and Agriculture, Mr Eldrimner, who showed that there are now conditions for small producers to increase in number from 3 000 to perhaps 10 000 or 12 000. This will require more raw materials, including organic products.
i-CErToyHtvZ89XdSb93VeHf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for your answers! In fact, the horse is also a fantastic grazing animal that can benefit from the Swedish natural pastures. I can see very much that the horse industry is lifted up and moving on, because, as I said, there are more horses than dairy cows in Sweden today. The horse needs to help on the natural pastures. It is absolutely an amazing animal to use in gear grazing with cattle and sheep. It's extremely important. Small-scale food processing companies and other things are good and it is becoming more and more small-scale. But I think it is important that we also talk about large-scale production farms, because we will need bulk production as well. It will be needed. I usually throw myself with LRF's old expression: In the next 40 years we will produce as much food as we have done in the last 8 000 years. That's a lot of food! Then we need bulk production, but of course we also need to take advantage of the small, good food companies. We need the big picture. For some it is very good to be organic, and for others it is very good to be conventional. For my own part, it is what I highlighted earlier: If I had changed to organic, I would have had to buy in manure. Since I have my ditches in ranch production in winter, I don't get very good manure for my arable land during the growing year. Instead, I would have to buy organic manure and transport it, and I would be able to buy conventional chicken manure and use it as organic manure. It's gonna be complex. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I think that Maria Gardfjell offers a good deal in terms of Swedish food production, and I certainly look forward to many forthcoming debates on this.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1081	Madam President, I would like I'm glad John Widegren brings out the horse like a grazing animal. Clearly, a strategy is needed to ensure that the horses are also used even more in grazing. I think it is extremely important to remember that we must also work towards a climate change change in agriculture. It will be a big task for us in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture and here in Parliament to develop new ideas on how this is to be done. If agriculture is to become fossil fuel independent, it is not just a question of replacing diesel with other fuels. It is also about finding forms to make fertilizer production fossil-free. In some cases, you may also be able to replace manure with natural manure, which we can handle, develop and, with the help of innovations, also spread in new ways. We must adapt conventional agriculture to the environment; that is absolutely necessary. I have a burning heart for all Swedish agriculture – be so sure!
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1086	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying, but also respectful, to be in this Chamber this evening and to discuss such an urgent issue. I can already thank my colleagues for having contributed to such a good atmosphere in the previous debate. It feels nice and inspiring for the coming. World carbon dioxide emissions are on the increase. When we need to reduce emissions significantly, we have not even been able to stop the increase in emissions. Global warming and all its consequential effects are the destiny of our time. To turn a blind eye to development is unthinkable if we want to protect future generations. Report after report shows disastrous consequences, and even at two degrees of global temperature, the consequences appear to be totally devastating. We need to break the trend and reduce emissions – and it is urgent. When the challenge becomes big, it is easy not to, to wait and to hope that someone else takes on. But it can and must never be our way to throw in the towel when the challenge seems to be overpowering. Madam President, I would like We can now face a real turn of events. Around the world we see more and more people engaging in everyone's climate. Not least among the world's young people, it is moving, and it is making it powerful. And it is perfectly understandable, because it is their future, perhaps even more than our own, that it is actually about. It is high time we all took responsibility for our emissions. The Social Democratic-led government carried out historic budgetary efforts in the last parliamentary term in order to achieve environmental objectives. Climate change, urban environment agreements and strengthened financial support for solar cells are just a few examples that have contributed to the social transition that has begun. But we still have many steps to go. The environmental objectives and transition to becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare nation will require a strong effort from all of us. Only if everyone is given the opportunity to participate in the transition can we be successful, and our ambitious goals can be achieved. The whole of society must contribute – municipalities, authorities, regions, business and, of course, research. Even individual citizens will have to play their part; that is inevitable. However, it is important that we do not pass the responsibility on, for example, to the children's family who have been saving the whole year for their holidays or to the industrial worker who is dependent on the car to get to work. Young and older people, living in sparsely populated areas as well as in urban areas, should be provided with tools in the transition, but the policy must provide the structure and ensure that participation in the transition process never becomes a class issue or a question in which the country is confronted with each other. If environmental objectives are to be achieved, they must also be included in other policy areas. In regional growth policy and rural policy, as well as in transport policy, consumer affairs and public procurement, the government has made considerable efforts, but the effects can sometimes be delayed. However, environmental objectives cannot be achieved without their steady recognition in more and more policy areas and thus lead to a more profound and powerful change in society. Madam President, I would like Some advocate an environmental policy that involves others doing something effective, preferably somewhere else. But what we do in Sweden is really important. If we can show that at the same time we can reduce emissions and manage growth and jobs, we also convince others to follow suit and introduce, for example, CO2 tax, air tax, reduction obligation, climate investment, environmental car bonuses or which instruments they now find best for their way to transition. Work on the milestones is the way forward, and it is quite right and proper that we use the Global Agenda 2030 as a starting point. If we can find solutions here that move us towards achieving the goals set by the UN, it will also be inspiring for other countries. Of course, the climate challenge is not the only environmental challenge we have. The goals of fresh air to breathe, a non-toxic environment for our children to grow up in and a rich plant and animal life also require political decisions to be reached. In our complex ecosystems, dependent on a variety of species, the food we humans need is created. When species disappear, the ecosystem adapts, but each time a species disappears, the system's resilience is steadily reduced. Eventually it crashes, and production stops. For example, we see in parts of the Baltic Sea how we humans through our actions caused dead bottoms and alarmingly small and in some places sick fish stocks. Madam President, I would like I also represent Gotland in the Swedish parliament. On our amazing island, my home environment, we struggle daily with changes in our habitat, caused by man's careless actions in priceless environments. The Baltic Sea is an example of what is to be expected if we do not move forward with strong measures for fewer toxins, sustainable transport, more viable stocks of valuable species and healthier bottoms. Therefore, we must continue to work on delivery at the 16 environmental quality targets decided by Parliament. Here, too, the previous government made great efforts. For example, more than SEK 1 billion per year was invested for protection of a valuable nature compared to previous government. This means more nature reserves and extended national parks but also a strong focus on the management of existing reserves. Efforts have also been made to reduce environmental and health hazards in nature. We must constantly monitor and monitor the effectiveness of the measures we take. Without the right information, we do not know which decisions to proceed with. It was therefore welcomed that during the previous term of office the government increased funding for environmental monitoring, appointed a special investigator to review monitoring and tasked the responsible authorities with developing new indicators for monitoring. Madam President, I would like Neither climate nor environmental challenges have a concept of national borders. We are often reminded of that. That is why it is important that we protect international cooperation and, of course, the European Union is a natural arena. That is why we need to be constructive, but also powerful, in order to bring about an even better climate and environmental policy at European level. The environmental and climate policy that took place during the previous term of office is the most offensive ever in Sweden – it must be emphasised. But we must look to the future; the work has only just begun. The future of our children and grandchildren is at stake. Finally, I would like to endorse the proposal by the Committee on Environment and Agriculture to add the letter from the Government to the file. The report also deals with a number of motions, and I would like to endorse Amendment No 4 by Mr S. MP and Mr V.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1104	Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all reservations involving the Moderates, but for the winning time I only agree to reservation 14. 20 years ago, the Riksdag decided on the Swedish environmental objectives. The overall goal is to be able to hand over a society to the next generation where the major environmental problems are solved without causing increased environmental and health problems beyond Sweden's borders. In support of achieving the overall goal, we have 16 environmental quality objectives, which indicate the state of the Swedish environment that our environmental work will lead to. Unfortunately, in the Environmental Protection Agency's evaluation of environmental objectives from January this year, the agency notes that we have a long way to go to reach most of the targets. The Environmental Protection Agency also stresses that the objectives that need to be given greater priority than they are today are those relating to the climate and the reduction of emissions, but also to biodiversity. The report also points out that Sweden's environmental challenges are largely cross-border and that it is important that we work internationally on these issues. That fits well with the Moderate priorities. We believe that climate action must be cost-effective and be done where it provides the most emission reduction for the money. I share the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's concern that we are far from reaching the climate target. During the red-green government, emissions reductions have stopped, and in the official figures of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency we can even see that emissions increased last year. It is a serious break of trend after emissions decreased by 19 per cent during the time of the alliance government. It is clear that we are further from achieving our objectives. Therefore, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has an important point when it says that the reduction of emissions must be a priority. In the same way, work on biodiversity must also be carried out internationally, preferably with Sweden as both a driver and a predecessor. The environmental target committee, with representatives from all parties in the Riksdag, is also an important forum for the work on environmental objectives. At the moment, a strategy is being developed to strengthen action on the conservation and sustainable use of marine and marine resources. Precisely clean seas and waters are a priority for the Moderates. In the light of continued alarm reports about a Baltic Sea that is not well and not least about the threatened situation of cod, it is important to take issues of biodiversity, eutrophication and the spread of toxins in our seas and waters very seriously. As recently as today, new research came into the fact that humans worldwide consume microplastics equivalent to a credit card a week, primarily from the water we drink. In order to ensure clean seas and water, the Moderates invested in their budget, together with the Christian Democrats, in advanced purification technology in our treatment plants to prevent the spread of drug residues, microplastics and other toxins, but also in a new start of the Baltic Sea cooperation for a joint work between the Baltic Sea countries towards eutrophication, among other things. Madam President, I would like The 16 environmental objectives include a number of important objectives ranging from living forests and seas in balance to limited climate impact and fresh air. One aspect that many stakeholders highlight, most recently at the hearing on forests that the committee organised only the other week, is that we must have objectives that are clear and clearly defined, that are actually achievable and that do not run counter to each other or have built-in conflicts of interests. In terms of biodiversity, for example, many stakeholders highlight the fact that a conflict between the environment and property rights does not benefit anyone. Several of the actors who are expected to do the job believe that the goals are unclear or contradictory. It is an important contribution for us in politics to take with us if we want to get everyone to strive in the same direction. Madam President, I would like As environmental objectives are multiple and broad, this report also raises a great many different issues. An important issue in which the committee proposes an announcement to the government is to change the permit process through the introduction of a so-called green track, which means that companies wishing to take measures to improve the environment can be given a more rapid approach. I think it is incredibly important that those who want to take important measures for the environment and climate should not get caught up in bureaucratic processes and long processing times. As we all know, it is urgent. If we are to achieve our climate goals, we must do things here and now, and then we need action on all fronts. That's why it's important to have a green trail. Then we must also carry out proactive work, where companies and other applicants can get more support and advice on how permit processes work. I know that the government side is happy to say that there is work going on – so they say in many contexts on the government's part – but I believe that it is important, from the Parliament's side, to make this statement, both that the permit processes need to be speeded up in general and that we should really put in place a green track for environmental and climate action. In addition, Madam President, the Moderates have tabled a number of proposals and supported a number of reservations on a number of important issues which, of course, we would have liked to have gained a majority in committee. One issue is that of a ownership inquiry, not least for the green industries. Many landowners and entrepreneurs in green industries are increasingly expressing concerns about the erosion of ownership. These can range from biotop protection or other restrictions on the right of use to the perception that assessments of officials in the various authorities are difficult to understand or unbalanced. Unfortunately, the proposal did not receive a majority in this committee, but I am pleased to note that the Constitutional Committee has taken our line and, in its report, which is being debated next week, if I understand correctly, called on the government to set up a parliamentary committee to review and strengthen the constitutional property protection. I think it is excellent that the Constitutional Committee has made this statement. Unfortunately, the S, V and MP chose to reserve their seats there. Another important issue, Madam President, is the classification of agriculture, which we have already touched on a little in the previous debate. Today, something as natural as agriculture is classified as environmentally dangerous. This means, in practice, that you are treated as mining and other heavy industries. It's not just about what terms we use. By classifying the activity as environmentally hazardous, there is a risk that the attitudes of public authorities may be adversely affected. Instead, agriculture should be classified as having an environmental impact, for that is undeniably the case. It would simplify the handling of environmental permits and the notification of livestock production. We believe that the government should act for such a change. Strengthened punishment for environmental crime is also an issue that is close to the hearts of the Moderates and several other parties. It is serious when it is possible to get away with infringements of the law in the environmental field simply because the penalty value is too low to move forward in many of the cases. In most cases, the penalty is only daily fines. We want to see stricter penalties for major environmental crimes so that prison sentences can also be imposed in practice. We also believe that environmental crime will then be given higher priority by prosecutors. Finally, Madam President, both the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the UN Panel on Biological Diversity (IPBES) highlight the major global challenges for achieving global climate goals and safeguarding global biodiversity. It is a reminder that, in addition to everything we discuss and do in this House and within the borders of that country, we must also intensify the global work. Without global action, we can never solve global problems.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1129	Madam President, I would like Jessica Rosencrantz touched on many things in her speech, and the changes in the lines are not enough for quite everything I would like to mention. Nevertheless, I was in favour of a wording in which Jessica Rosencrantz points out that priority must be given to reducing emissions and improving biodiversity. I very much agree with that. What concerns me is that Jessica Rosencrantz says one thing, but the actual policy of the Moderates signals something quite different. For me, it doesn't make sense. At a time when the climate is on everyone's lips – we talk about it all the time, and the Environment and Agriculture Committee has it on the agenda every time we meet – the Moderates obviously want the climate work to stand back, for example in favour of huge tax cuts for those of us who already have so that we can manage. It is actually said that the money is talking, and there is an incredibly clear signal in what is happening now. I cannot understand, for my life, how the climate benefits from providing even greater scope for consumption already well provided, while the need for conversion has never been more acute.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1133	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Westerén for her question. I think that the Social Democrats may need to update their points of speech – it is getting rather nagging. If you are against all tax cuts, you can simply make sure to back up the band. But it is also the case that it is this government that, with the January agreement, actually wants to abolish the defence tax. I think that is welcome in itself, but let us be honest somewhere in the debate. It is not true that the Moderates are deprioritising the climate. On the contrary – we are making offensive efforts both to change the industry and to change our transport systems. Strong deployment of charging infrastructure is one example. Only today, in the committee, we heard burning criticisms from the Swedish National Audit Office against the government's so-called climate flag ship Climate Action. The Swedish National Audit Office says that what you really should do is have targeted support for market failures and, for example, invest in the expansion of charging stations to ensure that people across the country dare to buy an electric car. That is exactly what the Moderates and Christian Democrats did in their budget. Somewhere I think you have to be a little humble. When the expert authorities find that seven out of eight of the government's climate action measures are ineffective and that Climate Action is not part of an effective combination of instruments to achieve our climate goals, you can not just stand and talk about money, but you have to talk about what the government is investing in. Unfortunately, the government is making a mistake. We have also seen that emissions have increased over the past year and that emission reductions basically stopped under the previous government, which is a trend break. That's the truth. It is the result of this government's climate policy.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1139	Madam President, I would like I believe that the principle that agreements are made to be kept applies both to myself and to Jessica Rosencrantz, but with completely different starting points. From my horizon, I will do everything I can to ensure that the January Agreement is implemented on every point. The birth tax is part of it. That is not the point I love most, but of course I will do what I can to keep the agreement together and also the government base. It is also part of a very large agreement that I think is good for Sweden as a whole. When it comes to climate change, which Jessica Rosencrantz touched upon, I can absolutely agree that everything is not perfect there. It will need to be updated and done even better. Nevertheless, I would like to underline something that I think is fantastic about the climate: it makes things happen all over our country. People, businesses and authorities are changing in a more sustainable direction. During the committee meeting today, we also received the answer from the Swedish National Audit Office that there are indeed clear examples of things that had taken place considerably later or that might not have happened at all. Climate change is not perfect, but of course we must continue to give priority to strong efforts for the climate. Anything else is unthinkable.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1144	Madam President, I would like In view of the billions that are going into the climate, I very much hope that a few of these measures will also go to good things. Of course, there are certainly positive elements in this, but overall the Swedish National Audit Office criticises the fact that the money does not give the exchange that we should be able to expect in terms of reduced emissions. It simply costs more than it tastes. But I share Hanna Westerén's commitment to environmental and climate issues, and I think it is very important that we see the urgency of reaching the climate targets. Therefore, it is also important what we do with each bet crown. Regardless of the size of the budget, the money will not be enough for everything, but we must give priority. The Moderates then believe that we must give priority to transport, which accounts for one third of Sweden's total emissions, and industry, which accounts for another third of our emissions. We need to ensure this through, for example, the development of charging infrastructure, higher requirements for the incorporation of biofuels so that we re-place our transport, to introduce a climate allowance for those industries and companies that invest in climate-smart technologies or to work to put in place a strategy for more carbon storage. It is clear that a broad range of measures is needed. I think we sometimes accuse each other of not sharing the picture of climate change goals, but we are touchingly agreed. Seven out of eight of Parliament's parties are behind the climate targets. However, we can disagree on how. In this respect, I question the fact that, in many respects, the government is setting wrong priorities and is wasting taxpayers' money on measures that do not provide climate benefits. We could spend our common money on strong, offensive efforts to shift transport and industry.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1148	Madam President, I would like We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time winning, I would only like to endorse reservations 7 and 8. Today we are debating environmental objectives, which consist of an overall generational objective and under this 16 environmental quality targets for forests, seas, groundwater, mountains, wetlands and so on. There are also a number of milestones and timetables. The objectives are also linked to the UN's 2030 Agenda. Being a politician is rarely about being able to do everything you want in an area and right now. Various important social needs need to be weighed against each other at all times. The overall generational goal is to pass on a society without today's greatest environmental problems to our children. At the same time, we in Parliament have to ensure that we hand over to our children a Sweden with functioning rural areas, viable entrepreneurship, world-leading industry and well-functioning power supply to industry. As I said, there are different goals, and they must be weighed together during the journey. In the party leader debate yesterday, Prime Minister Löfven said that environmental objectives can only be achieved if they receive popular support. But the protests from the countryside are growing stronger. They are about increasing the price of fuel for private farmers and about complicated traffic in central areas, the closure of industries, the failure of pensions to follow cost developments, the disappearance of social functions such as police, school, mail and access to housing for young people moving away from home. Protests to stop fellings have also been read about in many rural newspapers. The conclusion will then be that more rural policy is needed in parallel with the further development of our environmental objectives. Too much emphasis has been placed in recent years on completely removing forests from landowners' use. The Swedish National Audit Office has also pointed this out. It is possible to find forms where you both use and protect. The corresponding too little focus has been placed on everyday considerations in forestry and management agreements with landowners. Therefore, before a new round of forest protection begins, we want to complete promised investigations into the Species Protection Regulation on property rights, and we also want a database to be made available on what has been protected so far, including the Key Biotopes. It shall be open to analysis. Otherwise, it risks protecting too much of it and too little of it. According to the Aichi targets, by 2020, 17% of all land and fresh water areas and 10% of coastal and marine areas will be preserved through reserves and other effective protective measures that are well integrated with surrounding landscapes. We believe that this objective is largely achieved with regard to forests. Far over 17 per cent of Sweden's forest area is excluded from forestry. In addition, the vast majority of forests are managed by a good forest management team, good foresters, well-developed everyday considerations and with native tree species. Forests are not threatened by conversion to other land use. Compare it with plantations of eucalyptus or oil palms on former natural forest land in tropical or subtropical countries. These plantations have few species of natural forest. Therefore, the main model sought for nature conservation is to preserve as much as possible of the original forests and ensure migration corridors between them. For Sweden, everyday considerations should be the most important component. As a complement, we then need to protect biotopes for the most rare and disorderly species. The largest forest owners, including Sveaskog, also plan at the landscape level. Such planning should not involve individual forest owners, except in exceptional cases. There, the mosaics of the various care of small owners are the most important factor of diversity. It also relates to the individual's right to control his or her property. The area of agricultural land in Sweden is so small that no matter how much we save it as a percentage, we cannot save as much area of agricultural land as we have already saved forest. It shows that percentage count may not always lead forward. More focus, as many have said, now needs to be placed on endangered species in agricultural land, meadows, pastures and transition zones to forests. The new EU agricultural policy needs to allow fair compensation to be paid to landowners who manage such land in a species conservation way. The types of land to be supported should be largely left to individual Member States to define because of differences in circumstances. The landowners, as I have said, are the key to good nature conservation. They must have confidence in the authorities and in their future. But that confidence has been cut to the edge in recent years. A number of measures are needed to strengthen their confidence. Grants must be paid out on time. There is, as we have heard, a unity between the government and the opposition parties. The regulatory framework must be simplified. It is a major and important task for politics. Compensation for restricted use must be paid. Permit processes must be speeded up, which we voted on in this House the other day. Otherwise, anyone who wants to develop their activities in rural areas must feel that he or she has the support of society. A supportive perspective should be inscribed in both county boards and government agencies' regulatory letters. It has also been said earlier today that a major gesture would be to reclassify agriculture into environmentally harmful activities rather than environmentally dangerous. Rural Minister Jennie Nilsson said the other day that she assumed that the environmental impact was what had actually been intended. In that case, an amendment is not so difficult to implement. Mr President, I would like to In order for environmental objectives to be accepted, they must also be met. At the forestry hearing held on 4 June in the Riksdag, it was stated that certain environmental quality objectives, including Living forests, have elements that cannot be reached because they are utopian. The Director General of Skogsstyrelsen recently highlighted this in a newspaper interview with an example. There is a sub-target for endangered species to recover. But the problem is that some species in Sweden are classified as threatened, although they are quite simply naturally very rare. How are they supposed to recover? They're at the level they've always been. Objectives must be measurable and achievable. All rural policy must be rooted in the needs and problems of local Swedish rural areas. We need more bottom-up perspectives to improve Sweden's environmental and agricultural policy and less top-down. But on all these issues, I think we will have plenty of time to work on this autumn. Until then, I would like to take this opportunity to wish you all a pleasant summer.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1165	Mr President, I would like to I don't usually like the rhetorical grip where you pay attention to your own age. The reason for this may well be that my age happens to be relatively small in these contexts. But in this debate I was going to make a small exception, because this feels relevant. I was born in 1994 – three years before the environmental objectives were established through a bill from the then government. The portal clause, the generational goal, reads as follows: The overall objective of environmental policy is to hand over to the next generation a society where the major environmental problems are solved without causing increased environmental and health problems beyond Sweden's borders. How long a generation is, it's not strictly defined. But those who are quick on mathematics have figured out that I'm 25 years old now. My yearmates are starting to think about putting the next generation into the world if they haven't already done the trick. The environmental targets have been set for 2020. Yet we can see that further action is needed to achieve 14 of the 1 6 environmental quality objectives. These 14 objectives are not considered to be achieved, nor can they be achieved with existing or decided instruments and measures. This is something that should prompt us, commit us, to action. I do not want, and I do not think any of my colleagues here in the Chamber want, to shift these environmental problems to the next generation. As has already been said here in the speaker's chair, it is by far the most important thing to meet the climate challenge and reduce Sweden's emissions. The climate issue needs to permeate all areas of policy and the whole building of society. We must dare to use the instruments we have to promote climate smartness, and we need to use the amazing resources we have in this country in terms of renewable energy and renewable raw materials to replace fossil fuels. It is crucial that we meet this challenge at home if we are to meet the challenge of being a role model in Europe and the world. This is when we show that we are able to combine growth with reduced emissions that decision-makers in other countries will follow our example – or at least be persuaded to agree to sufficiently ambitious environmental objectives. The work for a more circular economy is also crucial. This is to reduce the impact of climate change and our resource utilisation, which is unfortunately far too high in most areas, but also to reduce the leakage of micro litter and environmental waste into nature. It will be a challenge in the construction of society, where we must think about not contributing unnecessarily to environmental degradation through artificial grass plans and other things. It will also be a challenge to put in place the instruments needed to ensure that we recover, that we do not let out and that we do not have unnecessary leakages of environmental toxins, heavy metals or micro litter. Here, too, I think there are steps to be taken. Globally, all countries have been working on the basis of the UN's 17 sustainability goals since 2015. On the other hand, the environmental target system has aimed at 2020, and there is a need to determine how Swedish sustainability efforts will be strengthened and developed. The Center Party wants a broad review and update of the environmental objectives system and its alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals and broader work on sustainable development. With new sustainability goals, we can – without lowering the ambition level – work to strengthen and streamline environmental work while integrating it with sustainability work, both nationally and internationally, based on the broader perspectives included in the UN's sustainability goals system. Mr President, I would like to The environmental challenges are by far different locally and regionally. We have different challenges in Stockholm and at home in Gryt. In order to take this into account, and because the municipalities and regions that want to go ahead when they assess that we in this hall or across the water are not ambitious enough, it is important to provide tools to meet and work against the environmental threats they experience in their local environment. The municipalities and regions that want to use economic instruments in this work should have the opportunity to do so. For the Center Party, it is clear that the role of national policy is to create the conditions through the dissemination of knowledge, the adaptation of national regulations and the development of technical standards. At the same time, however, we should be able to decentralise responsibilities and competences. Municipalities that want to invest in cutting-edge projects, which want to introduce tougher energy requirements or test new technologies, should be able to design rules and charges according to environmental performance and have control over any revenue generated by this. The consultation of more instruments should therefore be transferred to the local or regional level, thus enabling measures that best fit the geographical context of the local community. In view of this, I would like to endorse reservation 2 in the report. I have said this before in this speaker's chair, today and in previous debates: I believe that there is a risk that it will be an all too often recurring experience for my generation and for all of us in the future that we will pass the deadline for the environmental and climate goals we have set ourselves without meeting them. I think it is extremely important when we move forward in our work that we set the targets so that we feel that we can achieve them, but also that we are actually working towards achieving the goals we have set ourselves. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I do not think anyone in this Chamber wants to shift environmental problems to future generations. This is the last debate we have in this constellation during the parliamentary year. To conclude, I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture for their good work and for a better and more confident atmosphere in that work than I did when I entered this house thought possible and thought it was the case. But I would also like to say that now we have had a parliamentary year to get warm in our clothes. When we come back this autumn, we might be able to turn up our ambitions and work even more. Thank you very much.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1179	Mr President, I would like to Environmental objectives – with a view to the future sound like a report with high goals and great visions. However, when I went through it before the debate, I thought it felt more like a slush to collect a lot of motions, spread over a wide range of areas. It is not, however, a slush. These are incredibly important movements for the future. After all, we have a way to go, and we in this House have different views on which way to go. Nevertheless, I believe that we all share the objective that has been shared by several people in the past. I would like to start by quoting from the report. In the letter, the Government summarises the work of the parliamentary term in order to achieve the environmental objectives and provides a comprehensive account of the development of the environmental objectives system. The letter shows that decisions have been taken on new intermediate targets and new clarifications for the environmental quality target Limited climate impact. The Government also states that it has developed the governance of public authorities, mainly in order for the work to be clearer to contribute to strengthening the action work. The Government further states that historic budgetary efforts have been made during the term of office to achieve environmental objectives and provides an overview of these efforts in the letter. ..................................................... It sounds good to have historic budget initiatives, but we got figures in early May that Sweden's greenhouse gas emissions increased in 2018. The downward trend that existed during the time of the alliance government has broken this government. Even so, the letter beats the chest. We in the committee also received another reminder this morning of the extremely strong criticism that the government's efforts in the past have received from, among other things, the Swedish National Audit Office. It is not about quantity, Mr President. It's about quality! So to some of the motions that we from the Christian Democrats have raised in the letter we are now discussing. As a speaker before me, Sweden is an elongated country with very different conditions depending on where in the country we are. It is extremely important to get away from the city as the norm. Today we see that the government has a very clear focus on the city and difficult to take in that not everyone has the same opportunities. The environmental challenges are very different locally and regionally. That is why we Christian Democrats believe that municipalities and regions that want to use economic instruments should be able to do so. The majority of instruments should therefore be transferred to the municipal level, thus enabling municipalities to implement measures which they consider best suited to their geographical situation. The principle of subsidiarity is a core of Christian-democratic ideology. Decisions shall be taken at the lowest appropriate level. In addition, the higher levels will help the lower ones. In committee sessions focusing on agriculture, our agricultural policy spokesperson Magnus Oscarsson has presented several proposals for regulatory simplification and reduced bureaucracy to facilitate Swedish agriculture. The food strategy is often highlighted in our debates in MJU, so even earlier today. But it does not help to raise it in the debate if it then becomes a workshop and we make sure that the strategy is not just beautiful words on paper but actually becomes reality. The authorisation process in livestock production is often burdensome at present. The SOU 2013:5 found that there are requirements that are relatively interventional without justification in the individual case and where the scientific evidence is uncertain. It is important that permit processes are effective and legally secure. To achieve this, the Competitiveness Investigation proposed three concrete measures, which we support. I'm gonna touch one of them here. One of our movements proposes that the testing of animal retention activities should concentrate on fewer environmental testing missions. This shall aim to achieve a more uniform application of law, to facilitate the specialisation of environmental experts and to make the examination more effective. Mr President, I would like to Legal certainty is extremely important. If we are serious about the food strategy, then we must reduce the regulatory burden, strengthen legal certainty and make it easier for our farmers. Mr President, I would like to Many landowners and entrepreneurs in green industries are increasingly concerned about the erosion of ownership. This can range from biotop protection or other restrictions on the right of use to assessments by officials of the responsible authorities, which are perceived as both unreasonable and unbalanced. As far as government activism is concerned, I had an interpellation debate with Minister Shekarabi earlier this spring. The answers I got sounded great, but unfortunately this does not always shine through in reality. Government activism must be taken very seriously as, if anything, it really undermines trust in society and, moreover, is purely destructive to all parties. Ownership is fundamental to green industries. Historically, Swedish farmers have had good opportunities to operate and develop their activities, but the ownership and right to use the land they own are increasingly being eroded. We want the competitive conditions of Swedish farmers to be strengthened; this too is a reason to strengthen ownership. The green industries also require a long-term approach. If the right of ownership and use is uncertain, you don't dare to bet. Therefore, the government should set up a ownership inquiry with a particular focus on green industries. As we heard earlier, an announcement on this subject was adopted by the KU earlier this week. That is why we should stress that decision by taking a similar decision in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. This is also a real issue. The Swedish Forest Agency has recently adopted a new method for inventorying key biotopes in north-west Sweden, which risks stopping every fourth felling. We are talking about an additional half a million hectares of key biotopes, or a twenty-fourfold increase in the area of key biotopes compared to today. Thousands of forest owners will be hit hard, not least financially. I would like to quote the Chairman of the LRF Forest Owners, Sven Erik Hammar: This is going to hit the whole of northern Sweden very hard. Approximately one in four fellings on a quarter of Sweden's forest area is at risk of being stopped. This is forest land worth an estimated SEK 30 billion, which is now at risk of becoming worthless to individual forest owners. This obviously has a very negative impact on forest owners' profitability and investment capacity. ..................................................... To continue with more madness, Mr President, as we have been to earlier this evening: today, something as natural as agriculture is classified as environmentally dangerous. This is not just a question of terminology. By classifying the business as environmentally hazardous, there is a risk that the authorities' attitude to the business will be adversely affected and that the focus will be on looking for errors. We believe that agriculture should be classified as environmental activities, which would simplify the processing of environmental permits and the notification of livestock production. In our opinion, the government should take the initiative for such a change. To say indirectly that those who produce our high-quality Swedish food are environmental villains is nothing more than a mockery, Mr President. Finally, in many respects Swedish environmental legislation has a high level of ambition, but compliance falls into several areas. For the Christian Democrats, the protection of our common habitat has always been a high priority. Intentional pollution and violation of environmental laws are serious offences which, unfortunately, continue, partly because the penalty value is too low. For the vast majority of environmental crimes being prosecuted, the penalty is today daily fines. Despite the fact that prison is on the scale of punishment, it is extremely rare for anyone to be sentenced to such punishment. This is not sufficiently dissuasive. In order to prevent infringements of environmental laws, more stringent sanctions are therefore needed. In view of the very far-reaching consequences that could result, for example, from illegal discharges of environmental pollutants, more severe penalties would be reasonable. The Christian Democrats are therefore proposing stricter penalties for major environmental crimes, so that prison sentences are also imposed in practice. With increased criminality, environmental crimes will also be given higher priority by prosecutors. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but I would only like to endorse reservation No 18 and, at the same time, take the opportunity to thank the committee and the President for a pleasant parliamentary year and wish you a pleasant summer!
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1206	Mr President, I would like to Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson and I are – I think Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson agrees – both hillbillies. We come from rural areas which, in my opinion, must take part in the transition. Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson touched on the Climate Klivet. It has been up here tonight so I will try not to repeat too much of my argument from the previous discussion. But I'm so curious. If, in the opinion of the Christian Democrats, climate change is so bad, what will come instead? There are the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats completely unanswered. The Christian Democrats are incredibly clear about turning down their climate ambitions. Instead, as I have mentioned in the past, it is chosen to reduce taxes and shift a great deal of space and opportunities for the climate to tax cuts. Then I wonder, from one hillbilly to another: how does this benefit our homelands, and how does it benefit the transition? We also come from constituencies with industrial traditions. There are both at home on Gotland and in Värmland. Today, industry is moving home, which is excellent. It is excellent for Swedish growth but also for the climate. In this spirit of opportunity – there is a climate threat but also incredible opportunities – why are Christian Democrats moving towards increasing gaps between people but also between senders?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1210	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hanna Westerén, for the question, and thank you especially for the epithet In the last budget debate on Category 20, we had several proposals which, as it turns out, would help – not as we have seen in relation to Climate Change, where seven out of eight of the government's efforts were deemed to be in the ironing class of several of the government's experts. It's about betting the money where they actually do the most good. It's about international climate investments. That's where we really get the most bang for the money. Then it's about environmental research at home, technology-neutral charging infrastructure and improving the marine environment. We had a debate here in mid-May on the Climate Policy Council's report. The Climate Policy Council was very clear that one thing that we absolutely must get started with in Sweden now is the production of biofuels. That is why it is so important for forest and landowners to be able to invest in property rights. Forests are our competitive advantage. Of course we will use the forest in our transition, because we in Sweden will of course take the lead in the conversion. We need to show that emissions can be reduced at the same time as growth can be achieved. Unless we can show this in our transition, it will be very difficult to get the countries that really have to take steps. And they're not small steps they have to take. They're gigantic. For example, we can look at China and India.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1215	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with one thing immediately, and that is that Sweden must take precedence. I think I was very clear about that in my speech and also in a subsequent change of line. Of course, I believe that Sweden, based on how our country has it, is obliged to take the lead in the climate transition, and of course we must reconcile climate work with sustainable growth. It must also result in more jobs. However, it is important that we stick together our country – that we do not set groups or landships against each other. That is why it makes me worried when Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson in his line talks about things that should happen elsewhere. I think I hear it so often. It's someone else, something else and somewhere else. We must do our homework here in Sweden. We must keep our country together. We must provide citizens, authorities and businesses with opportunities to change. I think that the Christian Democrats are constantly being called upon to answer: why should such an incredibly large part of the budget be used for tax cuts while the planet is burning up?
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1218	Mr President, I would like to Hanna Westerén called me a hillbilly in her first line, which was very pleasing. If there are any groups that we really oppose each other, it is a city against land. We need to make a change in which rural areas – I choose to use the word We have so different conditions in the city and in the country. That is why we cannot punish rural areas if we do not have clear solutions. That is why we need to have support for technology-neutral charging infrastructure, for example. That is why we cannot ban cars with internal combustion engines, because there are those who use biofuels, and biofuels will be very important in the transition. In our country it is in rural areas that you have the solution for the transition. That is why the countryside must be involved. Instead, I feel that the government really is pitting groups against each other by the way in which it acts in the transition, and it is becoming a city against a country. I can also mention the military tax, which Hanna Westerén's party is involved in lowering. I don't mind-- it's good for me-- but maybe it's not that tax that's the most important thing. In any case, it is important that we, as Hanna Westerén is concerned, stick together the country. I would therefore like to appeal to the government and the Social Democrats not to forget the countryside, because it is the countryside that is ensuring that the city receives what it needs. And if we do not have the countryside, we will never be able to change, because we have the elections.
i-2475b3f1c4293fcb-1224	Mr President, I would like to We are going to talk about the important environmental policy. One cannot escape the fact that the Green Party has a very important role in Swedish politics. During the last term of office, 2014– 2018, it was precisely the Green Party in the government that ensured that Sweden's environmental budget was doubled. And the Green Party is in government in many municipalities and regions around the country and is working with the same zeal to strengthen environmental policy there. Perhaps I do not need to list all the decisions taken in the last parliamentary term regarding investments in biogas, bonuses– malus, air taxes, premiums for electric vehicles, the offensive for cleaner seas, climate aid, which increased enormously, the protection of forests, the urban environment agreements and climate investments. We had a discussion in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture today about climate investment and climate change. What the Swedish National Audit Office says is the most effective instrument in the field of climate change is the climate tax. If it is something better than the climate, it is the climate tax – higher taxes on fossil fuels, on petrol and diesel. It's the most effective means of control. If we're going to talk about efficiency, maybe that's what we're going to talk about first and foremost. We need sustainable urban development, and we need sustainable rural development. We cannot just bet on one thing and exclude the other. City and country must go hand in hand. The climate issue is not just a serious and urgent challenge. It also gives Sweden the opportunity to create a sustainable society. We can do that together – just and democratic. And the reason why it has to be fair and democratic is that we should all be prepared for the major challenges that this poses. There was an increase in climate emissions in Sweden last year. There are a lot of people who point that out. What was the increase in emissions? What increased? Yeah, it was truck traffic. It increased a lot. It was also a strong increase in international travel. I can only regret that the Green Party is a small party. We were not strong enough to push through instruments in these two areas here in the Swedish Parliament on our own or with the help of our government partner last term of office. But I hope that, although we are still small, we will become even more charming and create better opportunities for success in these areas too. We now need to reduce emissions in Sweden. We need to speed up the climate transition. We must invest in business as unusual, and we must do so here in the Swedish Parliament. I hope that more people will understand that where emissions are rising – in truck traffic and aviation – efforts must also be made. Mr President, I would like to The environmental objectives have for decades provided an excellent structure for all of Sweden's environmental work. Nowadays, environmental objectives also very well complement the work on the global sustainability goals, Agenda 2030. Environmental work and social work must be done together – municipalities, regions, industry, organisations and academia. Yes, there are an enormous number of actors and people around this country whose work is crucial to achieving the environmental and climate goals. I strongly sympathise with what Magnus Ek mentioned about the increased opportunities of municipalities and the work that is now taking place within the framework of the January agreement on the climate action plan and the Climate Act. Together, we must ensure that the role of municipalities is further strengthened and that municipalities have the opportunity to work with more instruments. I very much hope that we will be able to do this together. I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 4 and to say something about permit procedures. In recent years, Parliament has addressed a number of announcements to the government, all of which deal with permit processes and processing times. Following these announcements, work is now under way in the Government Office. It is usually called that there is work going on in the Government Office, but this is not something that should only happen in the long term, but it has already been given clear assignments to the County Administrative Boards and the National Court of Justice, and there have also been changes in the legislation, in the Environmental Code, which came into force on 1 January this year. Then I may think that there is reason to wait a little bit and see what improvements this brings before addressing similar announcements to the government again. In addition, I would like to say that it is not always the shortcomings of the authorities that are responsible for long processing times. I have known this since my time as a municipal politician in Uppsala. There is now a need for increased competence and knowledge about environmental requirements and issues among businesses, municipalities and other actors. Then the actors who want to exploit and develop our cities and rural areas and who want to create the conditions for new industries and so on are also themselves aware of what conflicts there are when it comes to various environmental issues, for example. And the knowledge that you can acquire and carry with you into the projects can radically reduce the processing times. It is not always very controversial to consider species, for example, when making exploitation. It could be doing the investment in one place instead of another. But having that knowledge yourself and carrying it into the work is crucial. Mr President, I would like to In the previous debate, I was asked about agriculture – whether it should be classified as environmentally hazardous activity or not. I answered that question then, so I don't have to go into it now. However, I would like to say that it is not just about agriculture being classified as environmentally dangerous. So do hospitals and other businesses. What is important is that the farmers I have met do not find it strange that they have to take environmental measures linked to their manure well or to the plate they have. It is about not spreading chemicals unnecessarily or ensuring that energy consumption and lighting are better in the barn next year. I have travelled with environmental inspectors and met with an Irishman who actually appreciates this type of supervision and this activity, because it helps them improve their business. Mr President, I would like to It's almost summer. I'd like to take this opportunity to wish you and your associates a happy summer.
i-LG4Nc57MoNrdL3E8M7VNf	Trafficking in human beings and the possibility of a period of reflection
