i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-21	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating extended employment protection for workers up to 69 years. The background to this case is the increased retirement age. Ironically, this report is based on what is called Measures for a longer working life. The fact is that there are no measures or investments in working life in order for more people to actually be able to work longer, but the big thing here is the increased retirement age. When many do not even manage to work up to today's retirement age, it seems quite strange for many to raise it further instead of focusing on improvements and investments in the workplace. The fact that older people who can, want and can work longer are given the opportunity to do so is, of course, not something that anyone opposes, and that is something many already do today. The Left Party welcomes this and actually wants to go further than the government in terms of strengthening employment protection further up the age range. But the question here is whether the Riksdag should prevent people from taking their pension at the age they had planned. Today there is great dissatisfaction with the pension system. Sweden has the largest number of poor pensioners in the Nordic countries. The system is very underfunded. More than half of all women who retire today have the guarantee pension, i.e. the lowest level of protection. An increasing number of young people today say that they are saving themselves because they do not believe that the pension system is working and do not think it will be enough. And they're not actually wrong. Looking at the years ahead, the general pension is falling dramatically. Half the salary in retirement is already a fact for the 1950s, and if nothing is done, the pensions will land below 45% of the final salary of all born after 1971 and nearly 40% of the final salary of the millennium generation. This means that the 90s will have to work at least until they reach 70. If they start working much sooner than we do today and work full-time all the time with a good salary, they may reach today's levels in terms of pensions. For over 20 years, however, the Pensions Group has avoided raising contributions to the scheme. Instead, they try to push forward other and much more inefficient ways to do something about the situation. I believe that the reasons for the increased retirement age are very sweeping and vague. The pension group says it's because we live longer, but that's not true for everyone. There are big differences in how long we live. The average life expectancy of short-term skilled women is falling today, and it is completely unchanged for short-term skilled men. Thus, an increased retirement age will further increase the differences between workers and officials. As working life is getting tougher, the trend, contrary to what we see in news articles, is that we are taking out pensions more and more in the past, and it is above all workers and short-term graduates who are doing so. They can't stay in work. This means that the consequences of the poor working environment are one-sidedly placed on the individual employee. The second reason for extending working life is to maintain pension levels. However, the impact on pensions is rather marginal. For people with regular wages, these extra years will hardly be noticed in the wallet. For example, working for an extra two years may add an extra hundred a month to a nurse. According to Kommunal's calculations, each individual year after the age of 66 gives about SEK 150 more a month, not much more. The pension age increase in the form of the so-called "rich age" increases pension levels on average to only 53 per cent of the final salary, and this is provided that you have good pay, work full-time and so on. It's almost like today. Despite the proposal to increase the retirement age, the scheme will continue to provide very low pensions, as the basic problem is the low level of contributions to the scheme. The third reason for the Pensions Group is that more are needed to contribute to sustainable financing of welfare. Otherwise, says the Pensions Group, it will be increasingly difficult to maintain the publicly funded welfare system that Sweden currently has. In this context, I would like to point out that many of our hospitals today have a job freeze and are subject to comprehensive notice despite great needs. In the majority of municipalities, cuts in health care, school and care are now planned. Then it is reasonable that efforts and resources are lacking, above all. However, when you read the government's own impact assessments on the proposal for an increase in the retirement age, it turns out that the impact on the number of employees is expected to be very small. The rise in the retirement age and the rise in the age of LAS, of which the rise in the age of LAS – i.e. the strengthening of employment protection – has the absolute greatest effect, together with an increase in the number of employees of 7,000, according to the government's own estimates. With all due respect, Madam President: about 7 000 people may be as many as live on my street at home in Botkyrka. They cannot reasonably save Swedish welfare. So it is not a question of full-time workers, so the number of hours is also much smaller. If you want us to work more, it is better, for example, to legislate on the right to full-time, to combat unemployment and to make major investments in the public sector and in our working environment. If there were only more people who had the chance to work full time in the municipal sector, for example, it would have a much greater impact than this whole device with an increased retirement age. Madam President, I would like It is not good to make cuts in health care, school and care of up to 100 billion in a January agreement on welfare funding is what concerns the government. Only the expenditure for the abolition of the military tax is greater than the sum the government will invest in the welfare of municipalities and county councils. If it is pension levels that are worrying, the military tax would have been enough to raise the lowest pensions by just over SEK 2,000 a month. It is probably quite provocative for one and the other that responsibility for the welfare funding in this situation is placed on worn-out care workers and construction workers. According to the Government's own estimates, the costs of sickness benefit, unemployment benefit and activity support will increase as a result, as well as the costs of sick pay. Anyone who will not receive sickness benefit or unemployment benefit – something that has become almost impossible to receive, at least the sickness benefit – will, according to the government's impact assessment, lose their livelihood entirely. The rise in retirement age is a deterioration in welfare, which mainly affects short-term graduates who started working at an early age but who receive very little in retirement terms. Those who continue to work longer have often had sedentary jobs and will live longer. There is a built-in injustice in this. The fixation at the retirement age is completely unrealistic when it is clear today that for very many people there are no conditions for achieving it for the foreseeable future. It also conceals the fact that the pension system is heavily underfunded. It is strange to me that the six-party group has not chosen to increase contributions to the pension system or to try to cushion the differences in pensions between high-income people, who have less physically heavy jobs and live longer, and those who have a heavy job and live shorter or the differences between women and men. It is difficult to see that this proposal for an increased retirement age has any winners. It is rather unclear why the rest of the members of the committee are so extremely pleased. They believe that the work carried out by the Pensions Group has been important in order to bring about the necessary improvements to the pension system and to enable more secure and higher future pensions. In addition, the committee points out that it is to be welcomed that the work has been conducted in dialogue with the social partners. Madam President, I would like The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has not supported the settlement, and LO is completely raging over the proposal for an increased retirement age. So I do not really know in which galaxy it can be regarded as successful. In what way it is safer for us not to retire when we had planned, it is also written in the stars. Higher pensions don't give it either. However, the committee stresses ambitiously that the importance of sustainable and safe pensions requires a sustainable working life. To achieve this, more changes are needed than adjustments in the pension system, i.e. investments in working life. I think everyone in this House is wondering where the proposals for these changes for a more sustainable working life are. What we have to do is increase contributions to the pension system. The low contributions are the main reason we have so low pensions. An increase would raise the income pensions of today's and tomorrow's pensioners by thousands a month. Sickness, child care and unemployment need to be better compensated in a more modern pension system. And it needs to be much easier to get your sickness benefit when you are not actually able to do your job in the old age. For the Left, it is important to raise pensions, not retirement age. With that, I would like to endorse our reservation.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-51	Madam President, I would like Entry into the labour market is taking place more and more later, and we are living longer and longer. That equation doesn't add up to our pension system. When we live longer, which in itself is absolutely fantastic, pension contributions will last longer. Life expectancy increases by three and a half hours per day. Since the introduction of our current pension system 20 years ago, life expectancy has increased by over two and a half years. In order to ensure long-term sustainable and safe pensions, change is needed. If we do not have the power to make changes, we accept that pensions will be lower. We Social Democrats are not prepared to do that. Anyone who leaves the world of work behind deserves respect and a safe pension. The parties that support our pension system and are part of the Pensions Group have made an agreement for long-term increased and safe pensions. The proposal to extend employment protection until the age of 69, which we are now debating, is part of that agreement. Many have been and are hesitant about a later retirement age – for good reason. Many people today do not have the energy to work all the way to retirement. People wear out prematurely. But we cannot just accept that this is the case and build systems based on workers in certain sectors or in certain workplaces simply not being able to work as long as others. Nor can we ignore the fact that some employers do not comply with health and safety regulations and allow employees to wear themselves out prematurely. That is why we need to further strengthen the work environment. This is something that the government laid the foundation for during the last term of office through an investment in the Swedish Work Environment Authority and the establishment of the Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work, to name a few things. Only last week, the government decided on a new bill proposing an increase in the maximum amount of corporate fines from SEK 3 million to SEK 500 million. Anyone who cheats and risks the health of their employees should not get off lightly. The parties behind the pension agreement agree on the need to step up work on further efforts towards a better and more sustainable working life. We also need to create more opportunities for workers to train and improve their skills throughout their working lives. This applies both to the choice of training courses and to the possibility of combining work with education and economic opportunities. The ability to adapt must be strengthened for everyone in the Swedish labour market. The parties that have concluded the January Agreement agree that the possibilities for transition will be improved by extending the Knowledgelift and that the possibility of further training or re-training higher up in the age bracket will be increased. The parties behind the pension agreement also agree that we need to take measures that provide better opportunities to change during working life. The security of the unemployment insurance fund and health insurance shall include more and follow up. This will allow more people to benefit from the security of the labour market while at the same time allowing those with sickness benefits to improve their future pension. We also introduce an exception rule for those with a long working life. In concrete terms, the proposal extends the right to remain in employment until the age of 68 in 2020 and then to the age of 69 in 2023 by amending the Employment Protection Act. Once you have reached 69 years of age, the employer must be able to resign you without having to provide a factual basis. Otherwise, it is a general rule of the Employment Protection Act. 69 years will not be our new retirement age, as many have seen the retirement age despite the fact that we have had a flexible retirement age for many years. You are today entitled to retain your employment until the age of 67, and you can withdraw your general pension from the age of 61. This age will rise gradually from next year onwards. From 2026 onwards, you will be able to withdraw the general pension from the age of 64, which is the average for when people actually retire today. You also have the right to retain your employment until you are 69 years old. Today, the right to remain in employment until the age of 67 is perceived as an obligation to leave employment in the month you turn 67. It is perceived as a precipice, because we have rules that make it easier to lay off workers when you turn 67 and it is more difficult after that. The so-called window has created undesirable effects. Employees who turn 67 are dismissed even though they had been able to and wanted to stay and even though they had been needed in the workplace maybe a few months or years more. In order to make the regulatory framework more flexible and hopefully also the retirement age more adapted to the needs and wishes of both employees and employers, we now propose to remove that window. It is important that the rules are simple and benefit both workers and employers and provide flexibility for both parties. It was not intended to be understood as an obligation to leave employment at the age of 67 when the right to remain at 67 was introduced. In exactly the same way, we do not want it to be perceived as an obligation to leave employment at the age of 69 now that we are extending the right to work. A higher and more flexible retirement age can contribute to better knowledge transfer and higher pensions and improve the capacity of companies to supply skills. Workers have the opportunity to improve their pension and be involved in working life longer. Too many people are extremely important. To feel that you are part of the social context of a workplace while providing valuable knowledge and experience, which a long working life brings, can lead to profits for both parties. This bill is part of a larger whole that will strengthen and secure our pensions, for both today's and tomorrow's pensioners. The proposals remove obstacles for workers who are able to cope and want to work longer. I therefore call for the reservations to be rejected and for the proposal contained in the report to be approved.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-68	Madam President, I would like We live up to our age. We are also healthier higher up in our ages. Half of those born today are expected to live until they are 100 years old. It's amazing. The years we work are supposed to finance the years we don't work. They will finance preschool, school and pension. Fewer people will be able to support more and more people. At the same time, our ambitions for the welfare state continue to rise. It is an impossible equation, or as former Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt put it: The pension system is not a magic. More people need to have the opportunity to work later in life. Having the opportunity to continue working with something you are committed to and that is right for your age and ability can be good for your health and the social context. Anyone who wants should be given that opportunity. For more people to be able to work higher up in the age group, a number of efforts are needed, such as the possibility of changing careers in the middle of life. For example, those who have had a physically heavy, strenuous and exhausting job must be given support and the opportunity to change their career in order to continue to contribute what they want. Here we have proposed, among other things, a deduction for the individual and for the company that wants to invest in further training, as well as a reform of adult education. There are two such proposals. Today's proposal is a result of the work of the Pensions Group and a part of a whole. Extending employment protection to the age of 69 is a natural consequence of the decision to raise the retirement age. With that, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-73	Madam President, I would like I'm not gonna get bored here today. We note that the so-called block-cross pension agreement forms the basis of the government's proposal. It is an agreement that the Swedish Democrats do not support, as we are one of the parties that has been denied participation in the deliberations. We say no to a general increase in the retirement age because we believe that better conditions should be created for those who choose to continue working. It can be said that the decision of the Pensions Group will hit hard on those who have worked hard in health care, care and industry – or, like myself, in the construction industry. I have been working as a scaffold builder for 26 years and today I am quite crooked. Unfortunately, however, we are now faced with the fact that the pension agreement is to enter into force, Madam President, and from that point of view we see it as a natural part that employment protection is also included when, unfortunately, it has now been decided to gradually increase the retirement age. Against this background, we support the Government's proposal. I therefore support the proposal in the report and refer to our specific opinion.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-77	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Employment, Social Affairs and Citizenship, in which the committee supports the proposal for amendments to the Employment Protection Act and the Pay Guarantee Act. The proposal is based on the work of the Pensions Group, which aims to develop the pension system to ensure long-term increased and safe pensions. We in the Christian Democrats support the agreement reached, and we also support this report. The proposal therefore increases the age of the right to remain in employment to 69 years under the Employment Protection Act. Once that age has been reached, the employer must be able to dismiss the employee by means of a simplified dismissal procedure without the need for a factual basis. The age for the entry into force of special rules for notice and preferential rights is also raised to 69 years. Madam President, I would like We live longer and longer in Sweden, and that is a fantastic development. At the same time, this means that an increasing proportion of the population is not of working age and that an increasingly smaller proportion of the population is responsible for tax revenues and growth. Therefore, the retirement age also needed to be increased – in order to achieve a long-term sustainable pension system. However, raising the retirement age is not the full answer to the question of how we can strengthen pensions. This demographic challenge requires more reforms. The conditions for people to cope with a longer working life need to be improved through better work environment work. The possibility of re-training needs to be improved and the possibility of further training during working life needs to be strengthened. For example, it is important that the Riksdag voted through the budgets of the Christian Democrats and Moderates, which abolished the special salary tax of 6.5 per cent on the remuneration of work and income from active economic activity for persons aged 65 or over. Removal encourages employers to retain or hire older people. In order to further strengthen the economy of older people, the Christian Democrats want to introduce double tax deductions from the age of 64, rather than the age of 65, so that the elderly themselves can get more out of their income after tax. The fact that an elderly person is working for a few more years plays a major role in the common and in his/her own pension. A couple of years can mean 10 to 20 percent better pension, and of course extra thousands while working. We also believe that the possibility for older people to receive study funding should be extended. If more people are to be able to work longer, we need more older people to have the opportunity to change their tracks during working life – also during the latter part. Finally, Madam President, a longer working life is, of course, not achieved simply by raising the retirement age. We also need to encourage an earlier entry into the labour market. According to SCB, the age of establishment is today as high as 29 years, which is eight nine years later than in the 1990s. Swedish students also finish their academic studies late in comparison with other comparable countries. This, of course, also has a major impact on the final pension. According to a Skandia report, a university-educated 90-thalist is estimated to receive 53 percent of his final salary, compared to 68 percent for a 60-thalist. There is a need for incentives and concrete reforms, but this is a discussion that is beyond this specific report on the extension of employment protection.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-86	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal to extend employment protection until the worker reaches the age of 69. However, I would also like to refer to the Liberals' specific opinion that the right to remain in employment should in the long term be increased to 71 years. Then why do I want to do that? Because I am liberal and because I believe in man. Man himself usually knows what suits him best, and our mission as Members of Parliament is not to tie up Swedes in their choices in life but to offer them opportunities to become their best self. Despite the fact that we Liberals want to raise the retirement age by a few more years in the long term, I am very pleased that next week, in this House, we can decide to give year-long workers a little more freedom and a little more opportunity. Age is a poor measure of the individual's knowledge, capacity and ability. Therefore, the proposal we have to deal with today is a step in the right direction so that employment protection does not wither before the glow, will and ability do so. Madam President, I would like For every working day that passes in my life, I am strengthened in my conviction that age is only one number. Almost every day in this house I meet my party colleague Barbro Westerholm. We exchange experiences with each other, and we discuss how Sweden can become a little more liberal. Barbro is the oldest in Parliament but at the same time one of those in our parliamentary group who works the hardest. She usually comes first to work and usually goes last. In addition, without exaggerating, I think she is the Member who reads all the documents, replies to the most e-mails and takes the most phone calls. She is always available, is always ready to help and is always willing to contribute with her knowledge and experiences. My party, the Liberals, would be a much poorer party without Barbro, and I also believe that the overall competence of Parliament would be reduced without her. On Sunday, Mr Barbro turns 86, and I would like to congratulate her very much now. Under current legislation, Barbros's competence would be considered to be 19 years too old. With current legislation, we send the signal to year-long workers that their skills are less valuable than those of workers with fewer years on their necks. That approach is a huge waste of time. Not only does this make our society poorer in crowns and coins, but it also makes the individual poorer in opportunities. For who are you and me to decide whether a 68-year-old is too old to do his job? Madam President, I would like We are facing a demographic challenge in Sweden. Hundreds of thousands of new hands will be needed in the welfare of the future. A major problem and challenge today is the unemployment gap between native and foreign born. At the same time, 2.2 million pensioners are expected to grow, live longer and experience more healthy years. So what do we have to do? First, we must ensure that we develop an integration policy that paves the way for more new arrivals to come to work and can contribute to our common welfare. Only then can we finance the growing costs of pensions, health care and long-term care. At the same time, we must enable our year-long workers to work for a few more years, if they can and will, in order to pass on the valuable knowledge and experience they possess to younger ones. This is not least important if we are to cope with the generational change that is taking place at an ever-faster pace. Then we have to stop holding back people who want to keep working a little more. That we need to be more taxpayers, I think everyone in here agrees. I want to be optimistic and believe that together we will meet the welfare challenge that Sweden faces if we take advantage of the potential our society has in the right way. Madam President, I would like I'm liberal because I believe in man. We are all unique individuals and have different backgrounds and professional experiences. For obvious reasons, therefore, not all people have the capacity to work until they are 69 years old. It is important to have that perspective in this debate. My father, who is about to turn 75, continues to translate and write books, although he is a pensioner. It is quite obvious that he has the ability to work a little longer, but I'm not so sure that he would have done so if he had had a profession that was physically demanding. This perspective should be borne in mind. We must protect all people who work in physically demanding professions. Elderly care and the construction industry are two such examples. It is important that we take into account that many will not be able to work all the way up to the 69th anniversary. For them, there must also be opportunities. It can be about being given the opportunity to change jobs and even change the industry. But then there must also be the right conditions for conversion. This could involve more flexible working hours or the right to go down to part-time work. But it is also about the good working environment in the workplace. To force people to work longer and place individuals in different unions is not the purpose or meaning of this reform. Rather, it is offering opportunities and putting man first. I therefore hope that we can implement this liberal bill at the same time as we continue to fight against old age, prejudice and downgrading of people because of their age.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-99	Madam President, I would like We live longer and keep our health higher and higher in our ages. But it's unevenly distributed. There are excessive differences in life expectancy and health depending on class affiliation and working conditions. Even if we are to be pleased that we generally live longer and have better health, it is also important that we see and combat the large gaps, the working conditions and the segregation that create these large and unacceptable differences. It is therefore important to invest in the working environment. This is why the government has invested new large resources in the work environment. That is why we have new regulations on organisational and social work. Therefore, we have employed over 100 new occupational health and safety inspectors at the Swedish Work Environment Agency. This is why we have launched new ways of working, where the Swedish Work Environment Authority works together with other authorities to get to what we call unhealthy competition and rogue companies that exploit people. This is why we have invested in new knowledge with new resources for occupational health and safety research and with a new Agency for Safety and Health at Work. This is why we are investing in new opportunities for people, especially through the knowledge boost. In addition, the parties are also making great efforts, not least within the framework of Prevent, Suntarbetsliv and Afa. I don't think what we're doing today is enough. I believe that we must continue to focus on improving the working environment and working conditions. But it is not the case that we are just looking at legislation or retirement age. You have to start at the right end, and so has the government. Madam President, I would like We must also see that we have other problems in the labour market, which are not caused by poor working environment and wear and tear, but by prejudice. Many people experience sitting on a sloping plane at work sometime after 60. It's a little sneaky. It would be an education for those who would become the future managers in any field, and that would be out of the question. Then there were some who would be trained in the new technology for something, but that was not considered either. Someone said at the coffee break: When you retire, Maria gets permanent service. It is a matter of feeling a little bit that you are on a sloping level, even though you can and do want to continue working. This is serious. These are rarely people calling the Discrimination Ombudsman or saying that I have now been discriminated against. But it is often the case that you feel a little pushed away. It will not be as fun to go to work when you feel that the skills and abilities you have are not used and appreciated to a sufficient extent, perhaps by colleagues or by employers. It is our job as politicians to ensure that this competence, which people who can and want to work longer possess, is really used in working life. And that's the decision we're going to make today. When you listen to the debate here, you might think that it is a matter of deciding on the pension system, but so it does not. The decision that is now before Parliament is about the Employment Protection Act. That's what we're going to change. We will strengthen employees' rights to remain and continue working. I think it is very urgent to do so. I very much oppose the fact that it would be opposed to investing in the work environment. We obviously need to do both, and they are not interchangeable with each other. We have a strong position in Sweden when it comes to people who work for a long time. We have a high employment rate in the 60-64 age group – among the highest in the EU and higher than in our neighbouring countries Finland and Denmark. We have also had a fantastic development in terms of participation in the labour force in that age group. In 2015, 75 per cent of men and 68 per cent of women participated in the labour force aged 60 to 64. 17 years earlier it was 54 per cent and 45 per cent respectively. So this is an increase of almost 50 percent at the time – a fantastic development. In the 65-79 age group, there has been more than a doubling of employment and participation in the labour force in just over ten years. So it's going in the right direction. But there is certainly much more that can be done. We have a high employment rate and a high participation rate between 60 and 64 years of age, but there is a dramatic decrease after 65. In analysing this, it turns out that the large difference between groups 60-64 and 65-69 cannot be explained by observable differences in health indicators between the two age groups. Think about it! We have great differences in health depending on class membership, social background and working conditions. However, we do not have major differences in health indicators between 60 - 64 and 65 - 69. Yet we have a dramatic difference in how many people actually participate in the labour force and in employment. This is due to surreptitious discrimination in the labour market. This is because many people feel that they should leave the world of work when they turn 65, although we actually need people's skills and workforce much longer. Under the current legislation, the employer must, in principle, dismiss a person in the month in which he reaches the age of 67. Otherwise, you end up in a strange situation in relation to employment protection. This means that people who the employer wants to keep and who want to continue working are still dismissed when they turn 67. How funny is that? With the change that we are now making, we are not only gradually raising the right to work by two years. It is a unilateral strengthening of employees' rights that we do in legislation up to the age of 69. We also change the system so that you don't have to be automatically laid off. If you have a job and both you and the employer want you to continue to be employed and continue to work, you just do it simply. There shall be no unnecessary dismissal. Madam President, I would like There is much to say about the pension system. This debate does not include all of that. With regard to the amendment to the Employment Protection Act that is now to be decided by the Riksdag, this is a one-sided improvement for employees of the right to remain in work. There is no contradiction whatsoever between this and the major efforts we make and we must continue to make on work environment work and good working conditions. It is about us taking advantage of people's capacity, competence and ability as long as people can and want. Sweden needs that.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-112	Madam President, I would like I note that Ylva Johansson also mentions the great class difference that exists here. We received measurements from SCB that working women's life span is falling in Sweden. I would like to have a comment on this and hear what the Minister thinks it is. There are great class differences in how people feel in the body at a certain age and with what kind of work they have. Of course, it is easier to continue working if you write books than if you carry things on a construction site. It is also about the proposal to increase the retirement age. When it comes to strengthening employment protection higher up the age bracket, we do not have different opinions. The Left Party believes that this protection should be further strengthened. This is about the age that people are going to retire. The proposal to increase the retirement age means that the shorter and shorter lives of low-skilled women should be devoted to working life. As Ylva Johansson himself was involved, Sweden has an unusually high exit age. I went to see the Pensions Agency this week. They said that we have Europe's and perhaps the world's highest exit age, that is, how far up our age we are working. Yet we do not have the best pension systems in the world. In comparison with the rest of the world, we receive very low pensions even though we work so far up in our age in general, almost the most in the world. What is Ylva Johansson's own reflection on that? Could it be that there are other things that need to be done to maintain high pension levels?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-117	Madam President, I would like Nooshi Dadgostar has a great deal of commitment in terms of how to reduce the gaps, which I have great respect for. This is serious. As it stands today in Sweden, we have unacceptably large gaps in health and life expectancy. But it is a little strange to ask for action against it in the Employment Protection Act. What we are dealing with today is the Employment Protection Act. There we increase the opportunity and strengthen the individual's right to stay longer at work. There is no contradiction in doing this and in other contexts, for example in health and safety strategies, budget work and much more, investing in efforts towards segregation, in order to reduce gaps and increase opportunities for people to take new steps. It is about improved working environment and better living conditions. It is a little strange to ask for those measures in the change in the Employment Protection Act. I mentioned in my speech some of the things that the government is doing and will continue to do. It is totally unacceptable with the great differences we have today in health and life expectancy. They do not depend solely on the working environment or working conditions. But working conditions and working conditions are part of this.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-120	Madam President, I would like I have hardly ever had so many reactions as to the issue of raising the retirement age. I believe that the government does not recognise the concerns that exist among people. The growing economic gap today does not actually burden the state budget, but the individual. That will be the effect when you raise the retirement age. What is happening now in the state budget is that there will be major cuts. Taxes will be reduced by almost as much as Fredrik Reinfeldt did. There is no focus in other economic policies to strengthen the work environment and to hire more colleagues to the people who work in health care, school and care. There are very large cuts taking place right now. There is a very strong concern among the Swedish people, Ylva Johansson, that the major problems in society burden those who least deserve it. They're the ones who'll be working longer. I don't want them to get any better. They don't see a good future in their lives. You only see cuts today. What makes me particularly worried is that the government does not seem to see this concern and that it should only burden construction workers, people who work in restaurant kitchens and everyone who works on our roads. This is exactly what Ylva Johansson says. People actually go down at the age of their pension. Although early retirement is very unfavorable today, a great many people do. They get so tired in working life today, and there are no improvements in sight. Is there any understanding from the government that this must be done in a different way and that we must make greater investments, especially in our pension system, rather than burdening all employees with the problems?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-125	Madam President, I would like This will be a debate on almost all social policy issues. The government is strengthening resources for welfare. There will be more employees in welfare. We have a major challenge because the needs of welfare are increasing even faster. That was one of the issues on which the Finance Minister recently had a press conference. It is a question of how rapidly needs are increasing, not least for demographic reasons. Although the government will invest in more resources and more will be employed, one can question whether it is enough to maintain good welfare and good working conditions. It is not true that there will be fewer employees in welfare. On the contrary, there will be more. But one of the big challenges is that people who are going to work in welfare should have the right skills. That is why it is so important that we invest in education. This applies not least to many new arrivals. They are an extremely important labour reserve not only in welfare but also in welfare. The government also makes many other efforts to reduce the gaps. It is a question of being able to invest, above all, in schools in vulnerable areas. All children should have a good chance of starting their lives. We already have huge differences in conditions and living conditions from early ages. It's about investment in residential areas to reduce segregation. Much more needs to be done. But it is not true that the government does not see the problems and does not make efforts. I would like to come back again to the fact that the decision we are debating today is about the Employment Protection Act. We are making a very important proposal. It is about strengthening the individual's right to stay at work. We politicians need to jointly hold a public debate on the need for people in the labour market. I think Gulan Avci did well in his speech. The fact that there are health and safety problems and people who are being worn out prematurely must not obscure the fact that we have many people who are not at all worn out but who are being rejected from the labour market prematurely. We want to put a stop to that.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-131	Madam President, I would like My colleague and comrade Nooshi Dadgostar have already said many things that are important in this matter. This is an issue that engages us left-wingers. I would first like to say something about this that this report, which deals with LAS, should not call for one and the other. The basic problem is that this is the result of a pension agreement that has been made on some strange basis. That is something that we raise in our motion and which we have also raised in the debate here. Pension issues, which are of course very important for Sweden and for Swedish residents, are dealt with in a closed group that does not function as other parts of parliamentary life. It does not invite transparency or influence from outsiders, and we believe that this is inappropriate. It is not reasonable that these issues should be excluded from the normal democratic decision-making processes and discussions, for example around the budget and so on. This is the basis for this. This is part of a whole that has been discussed elsewhere and that the government now wants to get through the Riksdag. Nevertheless, we note that the report makes it clear that there are two points for decision. With regard to the very proposals in the proposal in this case, i.e. with regard to the LAS, the Left Party has no objections. What we want to do is to get further proposals, just as Nooshi Dadgostar did. That is what gives rise to the reservation that we have. Although this on the surface is something of a technical report dealing with adjustments to the Employment Protection Act, it is something that is part of a wider whole. I just want to say by the way that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise is not in favour of the changes in LAS, and there are also other employers' organisations that are negative. There it is as usual; you get a little sad in the eye if the workers get a little more rights. We have no objection in substance to these changes. This, however, is something that, in its larger entirety, along with other parts of the agreement on increased retirement age, testifies to a basic view of how the pension system should develop and who it is for. Which groups in society should take the brunt of the blow or risks, and who should be protected when there are changes in working life and in the structure of society? We know we live longer. This is something that many people think is mainly good – the Left Party too. It is also so that more people can and can work longer. That's right. But there are also many who can't and can't work anymore. What happens if the expectation in the pension system is to raise the exit age that exists while we know that the people who are expected to reach the higher target are very different and have very different conditions? Who takes the fall when the limit is pushed up by authorities and decision-makers? Much less are carers and construction workers able to replenish these years. It is far more likely that individuals who are architects or similar persons will be able to do so and do so with joy. There is a further increase in inequalities in society if this is built into the pension system. On the other hand, you normally have lower wages during the years you work, and you do not have the energy to work as long and you are penalised financially in the pension system and you live less time with the lower pension. This is the problem that we are using all the possibilities that exist in this House to highlight and underline because we are not included in the Pensions Working Group. Finally, I will address the proposals we have in our reservation. That's two little technical things. One proposal concerns whether or not this is to be maintained on an objective basis. There we agree with, among others, LO; one could well have kept the current rules and screwed there. I think it may be problematic in principle to introduce such a relaxation of the need for a factual basis based on age alone. It can also sneak into other situations in the future. We will see how it will be, but this is something where we agree with LO and would like to see another writing. The second proposal concerns the issue of notice periods, where we are opposed to having no more than one month's notice period in these contexts. We would have wanted three months. This is shown by our motion and reservation, to which we have called for our approval.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-142	Madam President, I would like During the debate, many of the heroes we have in Sweden on the Swedish labour market and in Swedish working life have been highlighted. I want to start by telling you about a meeting I had a couple of years ago in Boden. There I met a woman who had not only passed the age of 67 but also the age of 69, even if you could not believe it. She got up before six o'clock each morning to take care of her herd of animals and milk them. She claimed that she would continue to do this as long as she was alive – we'll see how things are today – simply because she was a small business and had no choice. When we are discussing today the increase in employment protection law to 69 years, I think we should remember that many people are struggling very hard with their working lives and their situation – simply because they have to. There are many who make a hero effort high up in their ages. We have to blame two things. One is that we in Sweden have a pension system that actually, thankfully, works and that we care for. It works partly because we have made sure that it works together and thus is an example for many other countries, where people can go without pensions and without security in a way that does not need to be done in Sweden – although we need to strengthen pensions, especially for those who have the worst. It works partly because we work further up the age line and because those who want and can have the opportunity to do so. It depends on the incentives we have created for those who want to and can do so by reducing the tax burden for those who work higher up in their ages. That is not what we are discussing today, but it is the basis for everything. There is no money falling from the sky, but we have to work together ourselves. Then we need a pension system that works. But that is different from what we are discussing today. What we are discussing today, as several previous speakers have said, is not to refuse people to retire earlier but to refuse people to work longer. Regulation, a properly regulated labour market and also the law itself have forced people who want to continue working to quit. It has even sometimes been the case when their supervisors and employers really want to keep them at work because they are so valuable. We've forced them away from work. It is a blessing that with this change of law we now give people the opportunity to at least according to the rules and the law get to work a little longer when they want to. They contribute not only to society but also with their experience and knowledge to their workplace and its development. They get what they want: an opportunity for a richer life higher up in their ages. I will strongly support the majority's proposal in the committee and the committee's proposal in the report. This is an absolutely necessary measure to strengthen people's freedom and opportunities for life, as well as the development of society.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-150	Madam President, I would like In my home country Uppsala is the museum railway Lenna Cat. Every weekend during the summer, a nearly 130-year-old steam engine leaves Uppsala's modern travel centre to travel 40 km on a narrow-track railway. That this can happen is because people in the framework of voluntary activities work thousands of hours to renovate, polish, weld, shovel and sell. It is in many ways an admirable way to show the importance of the train to Sweden. When rallers built our Swedish railway, this laid the foundation for Sweden to go from one of Europe's poorest countries in 1870 to the richest in 1970. The railway was and is important. In our urban society today, millions of people commute daily. Their lives depend on a functioning railway. But let us be clear: the railway network in Sweden is lagging behind, and the blame for this lies with both bourgeois and social democratic governments. The political will to invest in rail from the 1970s and at least 30 years forward was too low. There were other priorities. This means that the efforts we are making today are largely about trying to recover what we missed then. It is expensive to do so, and it takes a long time. But this is necessary for growth, employment and the environment. We also have a choice to make in this debate: we can stand here and blame each other for neglected maintenance and who did wrong or bet on what. Or we can say that we like trains, want more people to ride trains and want one to be able to trust the train and let the debate be about our joint responsibility to ensure that the railway actually works. Madam President, I would like In 2015, Gunnar Alexandersson presented his investigation Another train order – beyond the railway knot. The investigation lifted a lot of things. One of them was that there was no knowledge of how the tracks were. That was the case in 2015 and that is still the case today, even if it has improved. When we had a visit to the committee by Trafikverket and MTR, we talked about a successful project in Region Stockholm where MTR and the region, who knew exactly where the problems with the tracks were, together with Trafikverket could put in action where it was really needed. This gave good results. This resulted in better punctuality. This example, in its simplicity, shows what should be self-evident: knowledge is the basis for making strategically important decisions. Or simply put: We need better knowledge of our tracks, and we need to cooperate more. We should be able to impose those requirements on our authorities. Then it is also possible to make improvements here and now. It is about protecting our common railway but also about people's tax money. There are suggestions in Alexandersson's investigation that could have been implemented already now. The Moderates, for example, share the investigator's analysis that increased competition contributes to a better rail system. Monopoly and oligopoly have never worked in any context. The investigation also states that thanks to the fact that maintenance has been procured in competition, our tax funds have been able to be used more effectively. The government does exactly the opposite and goes against proven science and experience. They choose to talk about and work for a renationalisation. I find this completely incomprehensible – as if the answers to the problems of the 2020s were solutions from the 1960s. I know that many of my moderate colleagues have raised this earlier, but let me say it again: it is incomprehensible and almost wrong to do nothing about Gunnar Alexandersson's investigation, to let it become a shelf heater and not even dare to send it for a referral. Madam President, I would like The government is trying to hide the harsh truth and instead beat itself to the chest with how much you invest in the railway. A few simple oneliners try to put the picture that what works with Swedish train traffic today is due to the government's arrears and any delay is explained by the underinvestments of the former alliance government. Only in an interpellation debate here on Tuesday evening did I hear the Minister for Infrastructure express it. As I said at the outset, the problems with Swedish railways are due to the fact that for decades we have invested too little in maintenance and that the investments made have taken place in a monopoly-like market. But to be honest: The commuters in Enköping, from which I come, who pay about SEK 3 000 a month to commute to Stockholm and freeze on the platform while waiting for delayed trains, perhaps with too few wagons so that it becomes crowded, actually ignores the color of the government, whether this is Fälldin, Ullsten, Palme, Persson, Carlsson, Bildt, Reinfeldt or Lövven fault. They want to get to work on time. They want to come home on time to pick up their children at preschool. They want to know what we're going to do to fix the problem. They expect us, for good reason, in politics to solve the problems. I therefore think it is a good thing that we have a broad political consensus on investing in rail maintenance. But then we need a government that seeks broad consensus instead of inappropriate political bickering. It requires a government that can take hold of the railway's functionality. Madam President, I would like There's an old expression that says, "Gos like a train." When it came about, it had a different meaning than it has today. At that time the train was the symbol of reliability, punctuation and modern Sweden. Today, unfortunately, we associate the train with signal errors, delays and lack of wagons and tracks. The Swedish Transport Administration's own statistics are clear: In total there were delays last year with 62 000 hours. That's a frighteningly high figure. Such delays have only taken place once throughout the 21st century. This is a completely unacceptable development. The Social Democrats went to elections in 2014 to promise that the trains would go on time. Unfortunately, that is something we do not see today. The Swedish Parliament's investigation service has calculated that the number of hours delayed due to unauthorised persons on the tracks, so-called track runs, last year amounted to 5 300. It is one of the areas in which I think we can do something by quite simple political means to reduce the delays, areas which are not about tracks where the shovel is set on the ground in five years' time and is ready for inauguration in 2030. These are the things that are important to remedy the problems now. Madam President, I would like Now really is the time to act on the railway issue. Millions of commuters and travellers as well as companies with all their freight traffic have expectations of us. This is achieved through wise investment, action against structural problems, the protection and development of entrepreneurship and fair competition. These had been obvious starting values for an alliance government. What is now happening to a weak minority government I hope to hear a little more about today. To stick to it a little bit, the expression is perhaps the way the train is most comparable today to the expression, which is dumber than the train. I find that boring. It requires a new government that is able to act. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say that, of course, we in the Moderates support all our reservations, but for time-winning, I only call for reservation 1.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-169	Madam President, I would like Each year a large number of people choose to end their lives by lying down, standing up, sitting down or throwing themselves in front of trains. Behind these deaths is usually a great personal tragedy, and it causes great suffering to family, friends, colleagues and others. This is also a major health and safety problem, especially for train drivers. As a driver, sooner or later in your career you get to witness a suicide, about two per driver if you have a long career. This causes both large and long-term disruptions to train traffic and major socio-economic costs. So there are a great many reasons to prevent suicide. Madam President, I would like 2018 was a really dark year for suicide in rail traffic. 80 people died of suicide by rail and 8 by subway, a total of 88 people. It is certainly lower than the peak years 2013 and 2015, when 98 people died, but significantly higher than in 2017, when 63 people died and in 2016 when 75 people died. Between 2000 and 2009, there were 70 people. The reason for the increase we can speculate on, but increased mental illness may be behind the increase. Society as a whole must take a strong stance against increased mental illness, and we must do what we can to prevent suicide. During part of my time at Trafikverket I was involved in developing a foundation for mirages in order to reduce the number of suicides and to reduce track runs. I went around to the places where suicide occurred in southern Sweden, south of Mjölby, and developed measures to prevent it from happening again. There were some places that were more common than others. Especially close proximity to psychiatric wards was a risk factor, but even cemeteries seemed over-represented. 20 million were set aside for action at the time, and I would like to recall that it is today mired in most places that were proposed. I also read some literature and research that shows that in nine cases out of ten people who are prevented from committing suicide are not trying again, so there is much to be gained from these efforts in the form of high mirages at railway tracks. Suicide on the railways is not a new phenomenon, and these efforts should have been made a long time ago. It also prevents small children from getting into the tracks and losing their lives as a result of an accident. It has not been that long since it happened outside Kristianstad, for example. In the case of suicide, total traffic stops usually between two and three hours, causing major delays. The Swedish Transport Agency allocates 1 billion to 2020 for fences and increased camera surveillance. A lot of increased fences with modern, stronger and higher bars have already been implemented, as you can see when you travel by train. However, we Swedish democrats believe that this is not enough, although it is a step in the right direction. We need a long-term approach here, and several tens of miles need to be secured. Long-term consideration must also be given to unattended level crossings. This has gained great focus after the mission review report. Fortunately, the government has taken on this issue, and now it remains for the Swedish Transport Administration to deliver. The construction of a level crossing with sound, light and beams costs several million, but at the acute stage the visibility clearance needs to be strengthened in order to reduce the risks at the unattended level crossings. Madam President, I would like In our committee motion, we Swedish democrats want train drivers who are involved in driving people to get a compensation equivalent to a price base amount, today about SEK 46 500. We want to tighten the penalties for track running. The Swedish Transport Agency states that track running caused an average of just under seven hours of delay per day in 2016, which is estimated to cost approximately SEK 80 million annually. Because it generates traffic stops, it is also one of all reasons that lowers confidence in the train as a means of transport. We also want to tighten the penalties for sabotage of the railway plant and increase the DNA marking of theft-sensitive plant parts, especially copper where, among other things, operational soils are exposed. There is even theft of a contact line. A few inches of cable or wire for which the thief receives a couple of crowns may cost five, ten or one hundred hours of delay and thousands of dollars to replace in the form of working hours and travel time. These saboteurs are going to shave the trail into the joint, and I don't mean the freight joint. Madam President, I would like The maintenance of the Swedish railway has long been subject to exceptions. Whatever the colour of government, funds have been lacking and the need for preventive maintenance has largely been held back for corrective, short-term measures. The build-up of the maintenance debt is enormous, and now that the allocation for the operation and maintenance of rail is finally increasing by as much as 47%, the next nut will crack, namely the lack of trained and experienced staff. It is already difficult to recruit staff to a sufficient extent. In particular, signal technicians, electrical technicians and railway engineers are scarce, and it is not only the railway industry's players, but also us politicians, who must urgently do what we can to ensure that we have sufficient compensation in the future. It will not be very good if the Prime Minister opens the construction of a future high-speed track and the only shoveling that is being taken is precisely the Prime Minister's. That is, of course, a strong exaggeration, but you know what I mean. We must not turn a blind eye to the problems of skills shortages. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats want to see a more coherent maintenance chain for the Swedish rail network. We therefore believe that the Swedish Transport Administration should carry out railway maintenance in its own right and that the maintenance contracts on other contractors should return to the Swedish Transport Administration in whole or in part when the time for the contracts has expired. We also believe that Infranord AB's maintenance operations should become part of the Swedish Transport Administration. This would mean that the State through the Finnish Transport Administration would have better control over the facility. This also means avoiding the administration of, for example, procurement. We also believe that this will lead to the elimination of problems with poor contract writing and the need to monitor and control contracts will be reduced. We also see a reduction in administration, which in turn provides more resources for direct maintenance operations. Another great advantage is that Trafikverket will again gain competence by allowing those who work in the tracks to continue their career within Trafikverket and then provide very high and important knowledge that will be well-suited on, for example, the management side or in procurement. That was how it worked in the past, but with today's system, the Swedish Transport Administration does not provide the necessary expertise. Furthermore, I note that state investment in infrastructure is far too low for the country. In the 50s and 60s, about 2 per cent of GDP was spent on infrastructure investments, but since the 80s the level has fallen to just over 1 per cent of GDP, even though the population has increased at a strongly rising rate. If the country is to develop well, we need to speed up investment in infrastructure so that we hand over well-adapted and well-maintained infrastructure to future generations. Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats believe that a move is necessary to improve punctuality, increase safety in the rail sector, strengthen railway maintenance and gain better control of the railway plant. The Swedish Democrats are behind all our reservations, but for time winning, I only ask for reservation 6 on strengthening maintenance and maintenance in my own direction.
i-UCHmCX5FMnFbjmydfdyHeN	Madam President, I would like The Left Party is in favour of reservation 7. We have a climate emergency. Among other things, we have an absolutely necessary target of reducing domestic transport emissions by 70% by 2030 compared to 2010 emissions. There's not much time left. This means that we all need to change not only which vehicles and fuels we use but also our behaviour so that we travel much more collectively and climate-smart there and when possible. Trains are collective, climate-smart travel. However, increased travel by train requires an expanded, accessible, affordable and well-functioning railway in a coherent system. In both rail and regional public transport, previously coherent systems have been cut up, but rail and regional public transport are climate-smart, common goods that require stability and reliability to be effective and workable for travellers. We in the Left Party are opposed to the liberalisation which has long existed in transport policy and which has led to a lack of a whole. The left-wing vision of rail traffic is a coherent system, in which the traveller is given high availability, convenience and punctuality. Although rail transport is a natural monopoly, where the various parts are intimately linked and interdependent in order to create a functioning whole, part after part of the rail system has been cut, divided and often privatised for a long time. As a result of the opening-up of competition, there are today considerably fewer maintenance employees than it was 15 years ago. Since 2010, the Finnish Transport Agency has not carried out maintenance on its own, but maintenance is done through construction contracts. In the market today there are a few players who in turn employ a large number of subcontractors. However, a coherent system of maintenance and control by the State itself is needed to establish a functioning rail service for passengers and businesses. It is therefore a great step forward that the Left Party has reached an agreement with the government that the state should assume the overall responsibility for control and execution in the maintenance of the Swedish railways. The Government made an important decision in January 2017 that the Swedish Transport Administration will carry out delivery follow-up and maintenance inspection of the railway. The decision means that Trafikverket gets better control of its own facilities and that what has been ordered is actually delivered. In order for the State to assume the overall responsibility, measures are now required to ensure that maintenance is also carried out by the State. The entire Infranord operations should be incorporated into the Finnish Transport Administration, not just basic maintenance. The Left Party proposes that a timely roadmap be drawn up with proposals for measures and investigations to implement operations and maintenance including reinvestments on the state-owned railway network through the Finnish Transport Agency. Madam President, I would like Good service, high accessibility, security and a pleasant atmosphere are important to increase collective travel. The stations have a key function in the rail system, but we can unfortunately see that there are many examples of poorly managed and for the traveller dissuasive train stations. There is therefore no reason why Jernhusen AB's sole purpose should be to make money from its property portfolio. This can lead to a lack of maintenance, a lack of transparency and the sale of station buildings. There is a risk that, for example, trade in and at our train stations will be given priority over seats for waiting passengers. The Left Party therefore wants the government to ensure that the company's station buildings are operated with a traveler's perspective in the centre by 2020 at the latest by means of a change in control of Jernhusen AB. Madam President, I would like The Left Party also believes that all actors in the railway sector should take greater joint responsibility for coordinating information to passengers when delays occur. The increase in the number of operators on the track has led to less information and less transparency. Travellers should not have to think about what or who caused the delay, but should be informed as quickly as possible about, for example, time losses and what measures have been taken to minimise the damage.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-203	Madam President, I would like We know that the climate threat is tangible and acute. We in the Left Party realise that it is urgent and that all decisions in parliament, regions and municipalities as well as in our authorities must be based on climate law and our climate policy objectives. Nevertheless, the Finnish Transport Agency chooses to close regional railways in several parts of the country, such as Lysekilsbanan, Bohusbanan, Karlsborgsbanan and so on. Kinnekullebanan did its best to ignore so much that one could excuse a closure, but one had to change when the region and municipalities protested strongly and could show clear evidence that the course was needed. The same is done with other tracks, and the Karlsborg railway, for example, has already begun to be dismantled. It's too late to save. This, of course, is not a very good attitude in a situation where we have to switch our transport and carry more by rail – it applies to both goods and people. The closures are often done without proper impact assessments, both in economic terms and in terms of the climate effect. In addition, this has been done after the runway has fallen due to grossly neglected maintenance over a long period of time. This would cost a great deal. Symbolically, we can note that while working to close the Lysekil track, permission is granted for the extension of Preemraff, which will lead to double CO2 emissions and increased production of oil and diesel. It is totally against climate law and climate targets. It's urgent to reset. Use the railroad we have. Roll up existing tracks, and make sure more goods and more people travel by rail. We see from other examples in the country that travel increases after a renovation and that it is an effective climate investment. Our climate goals must govern the transport system. Protect and care for the railroad tracks we have! In conclusion, Madam President, Sweden and its authorities need to start thinking about more rail and more joint responsibility for a functioning rail system. That way we get a good public transport for everyone, and we can help save the climate.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-210	Madam President, I would like We are committed to reducing CO2 emissions by 70%. If we are to succeed in this, it is about making changes in several sectors of society. Today, measures are being taken primarily to make individuals change their behaviour, but raising fuel prices and taxes on flights will not lead to the necessary reductions in CO2 emissions. If we are to reduce our CO2 emissions, we need to implement similar reforms as once did when district heating was established in our municipalities. As a result of this reform, municipalities have reduced their CO2 emissions while the outdoor environment in cities has improved. We need to implement the same kind of reforms in industry and the transport sector. The electrification of roads and the substantial upgrading of the railways are two such initiatives that need to be undertaken. Madam President, I would like We see how the whole world is changing. China is making major investments in infrastructure with a view to expanding trade and intergovernmental relations. We also see how several countries in the EU are improving their main routes. At the same time, there are problems of coordination between the countries of Europe. Since the early 1990s, work has been underway in the EU to build a single railway system. The aim of the work is to increase rail efficiency and competitiveness. Cross-border rail transport is currently hampered by the fact that the European market is divided into national networks of different technical standards. To overcome these obstacles, the EU has developed a number of railway packages to facilitate rail transport in Europe. We Christian Democrats think that is a good thing. Madam President, I would like No matter where you live in Sweden, you should be able to trust that trains arrive on time. Regrettably, repeated delays create a lack of confidence in the railways. A study carried out by the European Commission shows that there is widespread dissatisfaction with rail services in Sweden, and Swedish railways receive a low rating when it comes to issues of punctuality and reliability. In order to improve the reputation of the railways, we need to take several measures, such as more information for travellers and better planning of maintenance operations. So I was happy today when I picked up my daughter at SJ and saw that there was an information campaign about all the investments of 125 billion that will be made in the major railway systems this year. This is a good way to work to build confidence in the railways. We also want to promote transparency and competition on rail tracks through good and easy opportunities to compare prices and timetables. Madam President, I would like In order to obtain the best possible infrastructure for the money invested, a well-functioning competition is needed. We are therefore concerned that the government has announced that it wants to renationalise railway maintenance. In a report published in 2014, the National Road and Transport Research Institute showed that competition for railway maintenance has led to reduced maintenance costs by approximately 12 per cent while maintaining quality. We are aware of the organisational shortcomings of the railways, but we do not believe that the problem is that more players are involved in the development of the railways. We would like to remind you that on the road side maintenance has been procured in competition for a long time, and it works well. We believe that the government should suspend the renationalisation of railway maintenance. In order to achieve additional cost-effectiveness, the government should instead continue to promote competition in investment and maintenance. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a small and export-dependent country. A strong and competitive business sector depends on well-functioning and well-developed infrastructure. We therefore believe that it should be possible for heavier and longer rail freight trains. In Sweden today there are freight trains which are 650 metres. In Germany there are 830 metres of freight trains, and in other European countries there are freight trains up to 750 metres in length. We believe that Trafikverket should make it possible for freight trains of 750 metres in Sweden as well. This would lead to more environmentally friendly, safer and efficient rail transport. Madam President, I would like At regular intervals we can read that there have been accidents between trains and other vehicles and pedestrians. Unfortunately, we can see that the number of unauthorised people moving on railway tracks has increased in recent years. This causes major delays in rail traffic while increasing the risk of accidents. We believe that the Swedish Transport Administration, in cooperation with the train operators, should work out an action plan to make it more difficult for unauthorised people to enter the tracks and to reduce the number of personal accidents. Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time winning, we only ask for reservation No. 3.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-224	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I am in favour of Amendment No 13, which deals with longer and heavier trains. Today we are debating the last of the four modes of transport. In the last month, we have addressed differences between parties on issues relating to aviation, shipping and road. Last one out is the railroad. On all these issues, I have highlighted the importance of using each mode of transport according to what it is specifically best at. There is nothing either; all four are needed. At the same time, with today's rapid technological development, we politicians need to follow developments closely so that we make the right priorities. The investments we make should be able to apply for many years to come, especially those that build us physically through expensive investments. Railways are important for achieving our 2030 climate targets in terms of passenger and freight transport. However, Sweden's railways have major problems with both capacity and punctuality. If we are to reach climate targets, people must be able to rely on the train for commuting to work and to put together the puzzle of life. Otherwise, the train is removed, which can lead to increased climate pressure.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-230	We want to see better information for passengers in the event of delays. We want to see a new transport door-to-door system, where you can choose several different modes of transport on the road. This travel system should allow easy comparison of prices and timetables. We also want to see a long-term maintenance plan and a programme of measures to achieve increased punctuality. The plan needs – it must – to be developed together with the train operators, because they are the ones who are out on a daily basis to see how the tracks work and who are affected together with their passengers. Liberals believe in opening up rail maintenance to competition, which according to a report from the National Road and Transport Research Institute leads to both increased quality and reduced costs. That is why we do not want to see the whole maintenance operation renationalised. However, the Finnish Transport Agency should take greater overall responsibility for the operation. This is what Trafikverket's challenge is – to have the skills to plan and procure railway maintenance in a free market so that we all get the best possible maintenance in a cost-effective way. Most of the above points are included in the Liberals' and Center Party's agreement with the government. The focus is on increasing the punctuality of train traffic, perhaps the most important motive for people choosing the train. A cost-effective way to increase the capacity of the rail network is to allow heavier and longer freight trains. Some small investments are needed in both meeting stations and bypasses to enable longer freight trains, which the Liberals want to prioritise. In general, we have not made sufficient use of rail freight potential to relieve the current burden of road transport. The number of trucks in Sweden has increased by 20 per cent in the last six years. The priority for freight transport, for example, concerns the upgrading of the Western Tribal Line. By building new double tracks between Gothenburg and Alingsås, which is the bottleneck on the Western Main Line, we would have significantly increased capacity for freight transport into the country from the Port of Gothenburg. As a bonus we would get considerably more trains between Gothenburg and Stockholm and also increased commuting opportunities between Gothenburg and Alingsås. Madam President, I would like Punctuality and reliability are key if we are to get people to continue to choose the train, attract car passengers to the train and relieve road freight traffic by transhipment to rail.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-239	Madam President, I would like Infrastructure is the foundation of prosperity in our country. Rail is an important part of this. Many companies, both the large export companies and the small ones operating locally and regionally, use the rail for the transport of goods to both take home goods and send their products. In addition, companies may have employees who use the railways to get to and from work. Not rarely do we use the railroad as the road to loved ones. The railway has an important social function to achieve climate objectives and economic growth. It is therefore important to give priority to actions that can make the railway plant more robust. That's how we lay the foundation for the train's reliability. This requires tough priorities, hard work and considerable financial resources. In other words, Madam President, there are no shortcuts, just hard work. We have decided on historically large investments in infrastructure in general and in rail in particular – 622 1⁄2 billion. This means that we invest SEK 1 billion or SEK 1 000 million each week and next week a new, fresh billion in infrastructure. Week after week, month after month, year after year, we invest billions in infrastructure. But investment in railways requires a system of thinking. You can't decide on anything one day and put it on the other day. In some cases, several years of preparation are required. Last parliamentary term we increased the appropriations, and now we are increasing them further by almost 50%. But you can't just spend money, you have to think about how to invest the money. That is why we have changed some of the requirements regarding railway maintenance. Madam President, I would like I cannot interpret it in any other way than that one has previously taken the view that one can eat the cake and keep it. They simply did not want to make themselves unpopular with either travellers or freight operators. Therefore, part of the maintenance work was carried out during short periods between two trains or at short stops of the traffic. This is a very ineffective method. We all understand that a robust facility is not achieved with any kind of hide-and-seek maintenance technology. Now let's say that if necessary, turn off the track! In some cases, it may be several weeks. The railways are in some places in such a bad condition that they require considerable effort, Madam President. But we can already see small steps in the right direction. We're starting to get a little refund for invested funds and more efficient maintenance. In January the punctuality of trains increased, as did in March and April. Short-distance trains now have a punctuality of 95%. For inter-distance trains, the figure is 90% while long-distance trains remain at 81%, unfortunately. This is an increase for all three modes of transport in relation to the same period last year. But we still have a lot of work ahead of us. You hear figures of 95, 90 and 81 percent. There's a lot of work left before we can beat our chests and say we've achieved what we want. As I have already mentioned, Madam President, it is a matter of hard work. There are no shortcuts. In addition to maintenance, it is very important to invest in newly built railways – new main tracks, double tracks and more. We have decided on, for example, the fourth track between Uppsala and Stockholm. It is important for this region but also for Norrland. We have invested in Ostlinken Järna – Linköping. We invest down in Skåne on Lund – Hässleholm and also on Borås – Gothenburg. I am delighted that in the January agreement we have high-speed roads, but Minister Eneroth wants us to broaden the ground. A broad basis is required here in the Riksdag if you are to make this large investments and also find new alternative investments. Madam President, I would like Sweden is, as you know, an elongated country. Umeå is only two kilometres further away from Stockholm than Malmö does. Yet it may take several hours longer to travel from Umeå to Stockholm than from Malmö to Stockholm. If you had booked a trip to Malmö this morning, the fastest one would have gone in 4 hours and 32 minutes. The trip to Umeå was at its fastest in 7 hours and 50 minutes. If you had been lucky you would have had room on the train to Malmö. For there are both crowded and more trains, so we need to expand there. At the same time, however, we need to expand railways in the north in order for at least the Norrland coast to be able to approach the capital Stockholm. In this way we can have larger labour market regions in Norrland; this also requires our industry. Speaking of the trains in the north, we have also decided to expand the Norrbotnia railway. We have started double tracks from Gävle north. We've made sure the night trains roll to Jämtland. But, Madam President, in southern Sweden, what has been said is crowded both on the track and in the train. In northern Sweden it is long distance. If you are going to build a robust railway, you cannot take shortcuts, Madam President. You have to work hard on tough priorities, and we invite you to that conversation.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-259	Madam President, I would like Then came the words and historical efforts! The tone is very high and has been so since 2014. I think that in my speech I tried to lower the tone, because I think it is regrettable and does not benefit any of us. Nevertheless, let us note that rail investments have remained fairly constant in recent decades. Too little has happened – I think we agree on that. Too little has been invested, and I believe that all parties in here have a responsibility for that. I did not hear in itself any claim that it is all the fault of the alliance government, but I would like to remind you that during the alliance period the allocation for railway maintenance doubled. This has been said so many times in this House, and obviously it has to be said again. In fact, the Moderates 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 on the island have matched the government's railway initiatives. I would not go so far as to say that they are historic, unfortunately. I have higher ambitions than that. However, if these are really historic efforts, I would say that we too are involved in writing history. I think it would be desirable for the government parties instead to have a degree of humility and to reply to all those commuters who stand on platforms and freeze and do not have time to pick up their children at preschool. As I said, last year the number of late hours was 62,000. It's never been that high before. So how do you respond to all these commuters standing on the platform freezing? What do you do for them?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-263	Madam President, I would like Member Jessika Roswall dances a little around the arguments. Sometimes we agree, but as soon as you say something about us making efforts, we are incompetent in this area. I find it a little difficult to get those arguments together. No, I have not mentioned the alliance government, and I have not mentioned that you have doubled, as you say. But we've doubled what you've doubled! That's why it's historic. We have never invested more in railways and infrastructure than we do today. That is why I say it is historic. It's not a beautiful painting, it's a fact. If you are to invest and have higher ambitions, as Mrs Roswall says, you cannot come here with 20 billion in tax cuts, which you could have invested in getting more engineers. We cannot stop investing in four years' time, but these are long-term investments. We need more civil engineers to ensure that the mileage of rail that we invest in does not have to cost more than it costs. We need to invest in training and skilled labour to afford even more kilometres. Member Roswall talks about higher ambitions, but with what? With another tax cut, right?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-267	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I heard some humility from Mr Jasenko, and I think that is commendable. I think, as I said, that we should be careful with the words, and I think that the tone has sometimes been very high on the part of the government parties. But then let us agree on the historical efforts. My question, however, was: what does the government do for all those commuters who are still freezing on the platforms? The second question, which I put in my introduction, was about Alexandersson's investigation, which I think has been dealt with in a rather rigid manner. There were good proposals in it, on the one hand, to keep track of the tracks and, on the other hand, to open up to competition maintenance, which proves necessary and gives a good result both for us commuting and for taxpayers. I'd like to know what the answer is. Why haven't you even sent the investigation for a referral? I am convinced that there are many people at Trafikverket who would have liked to have seen it and had had to like it, give their answers and use the good. We may not agree on everything in the investigation, but there are still suggestions in it that I believe could have produced results here and now. We are, I believe, also agreed that it is not just about building new tracks, because it will not solve the problems for those of us who are freezing on the platforms today.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-271	Madam President, I would like Yes, we agree that building new tracks is not enough. That is why we are increasing investment in maintenance. We are shutting down courses for up to ten to fifteen weeks in order to take the necessary measures. As the honourable Member himself has pointed out, this is a lack of maintenance. It has been neglected maintenance for many years, even decades. That is why it is now important that we do something about it. But you can't both ride on the train and do maintenance at the same time, i.e. not to make an enemy of anyone. It's not working. There are no shortcuts. You have to take the hard work and be prepared to turn off some paths in order to make the right investments and to be able to do so in as short a time as possible with as much profit as possible. This is what is important for future commuters not to stand on the platform and freeze. That is our objective. I very much hope, Madam President, that we will succeed in this. There are small indications that progress is being made, but it is too early to say now that the efforts we have made will bear fruit this year or next year. But we know we can't run faster than we can. We can't take any shortcuts. We must do this from the ground up, properly, and that is what we are trying to do, so that you do not have to stand on the platform and freeze.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-275	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Mr Jasenko for a very good speech. What I think is positive about it is that you do not get caught up in one thing, but you really paint up the picture of what we want with Sweden. I think it's important that we have that perspective. Otherwise it will be easy to get stuck in one or the other detail. But somewhere we have this responsibility together. I really have three thoughts after the speech. Both you and I raise the perspective with the whole country, but we also know that the resources we have jointly allocated will not really go as far as we all wish. I have a specific question here: is the government prepared in the long term to start looking at the financing of loans? If we are to build main roads, no matter what form we build them, none of the three blocks will be able to produce money without looking for other solutions. There, I'm a little curious about how the government thinks. I also listened to one of our previous speakers, whom I thought asked a very relevant question. I would like to put it to the government side: will you give the Swedish Transport Administration the task of looking at the smaller railway lines, which, of course, fulfil a great role but which are effectively being phased out today through non-maintenance? The Lysekil track is one example. There are more examples in the country. This makes it difficult. My last question is: if we are concerned and want more resources, why do you make the use of resources more difficult by stopping purchasing maintenance and instead bringing it back to the state? We know that it is more expensive and less effective.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-281	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mr Jacobsson for the questions. With regard to the first question, I would like to say that it is very important that we in this House are all aware that the government, headed by the Minister for Infrastructure, is interested in a discussion on new high-speed rails. It is included in the January agreement, but the government is also keen to hold talks on how we can achieve a solution that gives us greater returns as a country. This will give a faster return on investment if the track is completed earlier. The second issue concerns smaller regional routes. The Finnish Transport Administration looks at this and assesses it itself. We will soon be debating the four-step principle for the Finnish Transport Agency. The Finnish Transport Agency assesses how these routes should be dealt with together with regional and local actors, regardless of who they are. I cannot comment on this more than that. The third question was about maintenance. We want a part of it on our own. We have seen that the previous part, where they procured, did not work very well. It was not quite successful in all areas. I can come back in the next line.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-285	Madam President, I would like I want to start on the last question. I have quite a long experience from local and regional politics in particular. My experience with procurement is that it is easy to say that the procured party, i.e. the one who has been given the assignment, does so or so, but if you dig a little in it, it usually turns out that it is the one who has written the procurement documentation that has failed. Then you get problems all over the chain. On the other hand, most studies show that when procurement is used as a method, provided that it has been done correctly, it is cost-effective. That is why my question remains: why does the money want to be spent less effectively? Then I hear the rumor that the Minister for Infrastructure wants to invite us to talk. I am, of course, delighted as a Christian Democrat, but I would appreciate it if the Minister for Infrastructure were to present such an invitation directly and not only indirectly. It would have made it easier if you wanted to communicate. But it is gratifying that we are now told that he wants to communicate with us. An alternative is that he communicates with us. Then I will come back to the question of financing. I and my party are behind the idea of a high-speed track, but I think the situation is more serious than that. We need to talk about private – public partnership and how to finance in the long term. If we are to achieve the 70% target, it will not just be about rail. It will be about electrification, shipping and various technical solutions where we will probably have to go in with investments that are paid both over the state budget but also in other ways. My question then remains: is the government open to this type of private cooperation in order to cope with infrastructure better in the long term?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-289	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member, Mr Jacobsson, may be clear that we will be withdrawing part of the procured maintenance on his own account precisely because of what the honourable Member himself mentions. In the work you must have good knowledge of what you need to procure. That's why we're taking part of the in-house maintenance into the Finnish Transport Administration. The second issue concerns high-speed lines and investments there. I also think it is urgent to make more investment. Then we need a stable political situation in the country. We cannot sketch napkins instead of making budgets; we need stability. That's where we need to have a conversation. Then there are some examples of deterrence. I personally think that the airport runway is a deterrent. Now we have a deal. We cannot expand the runway so that we can take the train from Arlanda and down to Malmö. It is a deterrent example, I think. Furthermore, I wonder: how can we extend an agreement that is not good?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-292	Madam President, I would like The railway is the backbone of a sustainable transport system. It is the most energy-efficient and climate-smart way to transport both many people and a lot of things. The Green Party therefore wants to expand the railway with new main rail lines for high-speed trains and to renovate the railways throughout Sweden. I am therefore very pleased that the January agreement has so clearly included a proper priority for the railways. It is a question of keeping up the efforts made in the national plan, which was drawn up during the previous parliamentary term. It is about increased efforts on maintenance and investment and, not least, about the completion of new high-speed rail lines so that Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and regions and cities along and in connection with the route of the track are better connected with modern and sustainable communications. At the same time, there will be a continued expansion of the railway in northern Sweden, and the planning for building the Norrbotnia Line as a whole will be intensified. It is precisely the extension of railways along the Norrland coast, Madam President, that demonstrates the potential of rail construction and that more and more passengers are attracted to sustainable travel once the opportunity exists. However, there is a need for further development, just as my colleague Mr Jasenko mentioned earlier. The railway and its maintenance have been lagging behind for decades, but now it is evident that there is a historic investment in reconstruction and expansion, as decided by the environmental party and social democratic government. Unfortunately, this also means that parts of the railway are shut down during certain periods in order for the necessary maintenance to be possible. Of course, it is not funny when you realize that your regular trip takes an hour longer than it usually does or if you may have to travel a replacement bus between certain places. At the same time, this is absolutely necessary for us to have a more robust railway where trains can come and go on time. However, it becomes very clear how much easier it would have been to carry out maintenance without inconvenience to the passengers if there had been more tracks and how much more robust the railway had become with new main tracks. Today, large parts of the railways in southern Sweden suffer from a lack of capacity. This means that the ability to meet passenger and freight transport operators' demand for travel is limited. This also means that the railways are becoming more sensitive to disturbances. New high-speed main lines are a necessity. New runways mean that existing runways are unloaded, allowing for increased space for other train traffic on these routes. It also means a less vulnerable system and greater opportunities for efficient maintenance. This is something that not only benefits long-distance rail passengers, but also freight transport and regional rail transport. When we then build new main roads, it is obvious to me that they will be built for modern trains that can go really fast and offer attractive travel times. With the travel times achieved if high-speed trains are built to allow trains to run at 320 kilometres per hour, the need for domestic flights in southern Sweden can in principle be eliminated. It's a huge climate gain. Creating more space for freight trains so that more goods can be moved from truck to train is also a major climate benefit. Although the development of new high-speed rail main lines is an environmental burden, it is being brought in relatively quickly. And how long have we not benefited from the railway that we have today? Similarly, the new tribal paths will serve new generations far into the next century. It is also important to consider what could be the alternative if we do not develop new main routes. How, then, are we to meet a growing need for travel that a growing population is giving rise to? More flights? Additional highway files? These are things that rhyme very badly with the climate emergency that we are actually in. But for the benefits to be maximised, the railways need to be expanded quickly. We cannot wait until the end of this century to get the benefits for the climate that we so badly need. However, the new main routes are not only needed for the climate. They would also have a positive impact on economic development and housing construction. Investing in tracks is building a country. It brings added value that is hard to predict. Along the railway, communities and housing are growing – not only in the 19th century, but also today. The railway is the backbone of sustainable society. It is the energy-efficient way of travel that allows work trips, leisure trips and holiday trips to be carried out in a sustainable way. Some believe that new main roads only benefit the big cities, Madam President. That's wrong. The smaller cities along the track will be the really big winners when the exchange between cities such as Linköping, Norrköping, Jönköping, Borås and Hässleholm is facilitated – yes, Madam President, I know I reveal that I am from Östergötland when I say Linköping and Norrköping. When it's possible to live and run companies in these cities but still have close and easy contact with customers and suppliers in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö – yes, basically throughout southern Sweden – we really see the benefits of new high-speed rail lines. But even far beyond the station sites, high-speed rail will benefit. However, it is important to give real priority to achieving attractive travel times. A few minutes here and there may seem a little bit, but on the total it makes a big difference. We also need to take into account that the journey usually does not start at the railway station. The entire journey time is therefore more extensive than the time from start to finish shown by the train timetable. With high-speed trains that can walk 320 kilometres an hour, you can reach Stockholm from all over Skåne in less than three hours. If trains can only drive at 250 kilometres an hour, it is mainly people who travel from the station sites that get good travel times. In conclusion, we need new high-speed rail lines for climate, for travellers, for goods, for housing and for business. We need the capacity and the robustness. High-speed railways need to be expanded quickly and with the right quality. It is therefore essential that discussions on funding can be launched as soon as possible and that the necessary decisions can be taken. Madam President, I would like Of course, travellers are wondering what we are doing here and now to remedy a lack of punctuality and facilitate travel. More than one in ten trains was last year more than five minutes late. As delays are more frequent during times when many travel, a larger proportion of passengers have experienced delays. That, of course, is not acceptable. We travelers are losing valuable time. We're missing pick-ups at preschool. We miss important events and activities in life. Above all, we feel that we cannot be confident that we will arrive on time. The Green Party believes that we should be inspired by the effective work carried out in the area of road safety with the zero vision. We want to see a corresponding zero vision for train trouble. Madam President, I would like The 12-year national plan makes an historic increase of 47%, or 40 billion, so we have just over 150 billion to spend on operation, maintenance and traffic management. In the January agreement, we have also agreed to continue work on increased investments in maintenance and investments in new tracks, as well as to develop a long-term maintenance plan and a programme of measures to ensure increased punctuality in collaboration with the train operators. We have also made it clear that a national ticketing system will be developed for all public transport throughout Sweden. The purpose of this is, of course, to make it easier for travellers. We also want it to be easier to book trips abroad and to take the night train to Europe. It is amazing to see the commitment to train traffic that is visible both in the Facebook group Tågsemes ter and in Instagram accounts such as R esareko. All of Sweden wants to travel sustainably. My goal and the Green Party's aim is to prioritise trains and railways, so that we can expand the railway with new main rail lines for high-speed trains and renovate the railways throughout Sweden. I support the committee's proposal in the report, Madam President.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-308	Madam President, I would like We have two parties in the government, and I would like to come back to the question I had earlier. Everyone in this House seems to fully agree that rail is important. We all think that good funding is needed, and we all seem to agree that we want it to be done in a stable and well-planned way. At the same time, we all note that, although the funding has increased, more efforts need to be made if the railways are to have greater efficiency and be able to compete with other modes of transport. I will return to my previous question. Today, it is primarily the state budget that finances, but if you are to manage to invest in new main roads, no matter how they are constructed, you probably have to work with loan financing or public-private collaboration, or OPS, which is the Swedish word for what I said earlier in the debate. However, I understood that at least one of the government parties was a little more negative to that kind of cooperation, but I do not see how we can manage to make the necessary efforts if we do not find other methods than just the state budget.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-312	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Jacobsson, for the question, which gives me the opportunity to develop my view of financing! We from the Green Party believe it is important that we fund the new high-speed main lines in such a way that we do not crowd out important and necessary investments in the now decided national plan. This is our starting point in the discussions and discussions. We have previously pointed out that we are open to discussing things such as loan financing and different ways of financing. At the same time, I must emphasise the concerns that Mr Jasenko raised regarding OPS solutions, i.e. public-private collaboration. It may sound nice and easy to invite more parties to participate and finance important investments for the future. At the same time, we know that there is no private operator doing this just to be kind or fair, but that the private operator wants to get a return on the investments made. It has turned out that it can be very tricky to find agreements that work in such a way that the public actually gets the benefits and benefits of the investments made in the framework of OPS collaboration. I therefore think that we really need to be careful when considering how to create financial solutions. We must find solutions which, as the honourable Member said, are stable and sustainable. This is supposed to be our beacon.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-316	Madam President, I would like I share the view that there have been and may be OPS solutions that are problematic. But the basic question remains. If you want to manage really big investments without crowding out the rest of the country, you have to find other solutions. In Norway, for example, they work with a method called bompeng. We who live near Norway know how it works. You often have a money for a while. It is linked to the specific location, which means that most Norwegians – not all of them, because there is a debate in Norway too – accept it because they know it works over time. In my home country we have such a boom now, on the Svinesund Bridge, which will be dismantled within a year approximately when the co-financing that would take place. In fact, this concerns a matter of principle much more than individual cases, such as the Arlanda runway. Then it's probably different between the parties. We Christian Democrats have been in favour of new main lines, but it is not easy to say that it is environmentally beneficial. It depends on time and how it is done. In a tt building with concrete and to use a lot of agricultural land must also include what is environmentally beneficial. If we put this in relation to new technologies, such as electrified aircraft, electrified trucks and completely different ways of driving, environmental calculations change. The time calculation should be the same over time, but the environmental calculation actually changes in relation to what happens in the environment. We as politicians must take this with us. Let me take a small example. If we were to increase rail investment so that 100% more goods go by rail, it would reduce truck transport by only 8%. So we need to work on more solutions than just rail if we are to meet the climate targets.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-320	Madam President, I would like I find it interesting that Mr Jacobsson highlights more methods of financing infrastructure than OPS solutions. The honourable Member mentioned the bomb in Norway, and we from the Green Party have previously highlighted things such as road wear and congestion taxes and to collect funding from those who use the infrastructure that is being built in different ways. This is something we are prepared to look at in different contexts. Then I would like to say that the environmental benefits of building a new high-speed rail mainline should not be underestimated. We will have a need for travelling for a long time to come. We know that although we have technology development, the amount of energy, especially renewable energy, that we have available in society is limited. This means that even if we see increased electrification of air traffic, for example, we need to be able to transport ourselves efficiently. We also know that electrified flights are something that is under development and that comes later. As things stand today, we are talking about relatively small units of air, which can take a dozen passengers and travel a maximum of 40 miles. It is not in this way that we transport the large numbers of people who need to travel between our big cities. Then we'd have to have the whole air full and crawling with small planes. I believe that the environmental calculation of the investment will last for a long time to come, even if we see technological developments in other areas.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-324	Madam President, I would like Dear listeners and fellow debaters! We are now debating the so-called four-step principle and report TU18. This is a report that we have prepared in the Transport Committee and which is based on the Government's letter in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the Swedish Transport Administration's work on the so-called four-step principle of infrastructure planning. Three motions have come to the letter. The report also contains an announcement calling on the government to define more clearly how to work with the four-step principle, a call that the Finnish Transport Administration will later take care of. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Left Party's Amendment No 3. The state invests approximately SEK 25 billion annually in new transport infrastructure. Investment decisions are made within the framework of cross-road planning, which is based on the fact that it is the most economically efficient and sustainable transport solutions to be implemented. Major investments to be implemented are within the national 12-year plan, which is reviewed every four years. We are now in the infrastructure plan that extends until 2029. The investment decisions shall be preceded by a four-step selection process, which is the model used by the state to decide how best to use the infrastructure money. What, then, is this four-step principle? It consists, as we hear, of four steps. The first step in the four-step principle is to consider first and foremost measures that can reduce the need for transport and change the mode of transport. These include, for example, parking fees and travel-free meetings. It is therefore a question of measures to change behaviour. The second step involves taking measures to make more efficient use of the existing infrastructure, such as introducing bus lanes or increasing the frequency of public transport. Only when there is a need, once the first and second steps have been exhausted, can limited redevelopments of existing infrastructure – the third – or the last – the fourth – stage of the four-step principle be considered, which well means building new capacity. For example, new roads are being built. We in the Left Party believe that the four-step principle correctly applied is a very important planning method for achieving a transport system that is ecologically, socially and economically sustainable. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the Swedish Transport Administration's efforts to apply the four-step principle when planning investments in transport infrastructure. This examination shows that the Swedish Transport Administration does not use the four-step principle as they should. This is particularly evident in Stage 1 and Stage 2 solutions, i.e. those relating to behavioural changes and reduced transport. They are almost always given priority in favour of building new infrastructure capacity, which leads to increased transport and almost always to increased emissions. This review also shows that the Finnish Transport Administration's assessment of the national infrastructure plan, which extends until 2029, is often based on older material developed with a methodology where the four-step principle has not always been clearly leading. This risks leading to proposals which are outdated and which have not taken full account of the requirements for reduced transport and behavioural changes and thus reduced emissions. However, the Government's letter shows that the Government considers that the Finnish Transport Administration currently has sufficient directives to work on the four-step principle. The Government considers that there are no grounds for further action in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations. We in the Left Party do not share the government's opinion at all. We believe that the Government needs to give clearer directives to the Swedish Transport Administration so that they can make more effective use of the four-step principle as intended, i.e. an increased use of and focus on precisely step 1 and step 2 solutions. We believe that our conclusions are very much strengthened by the review carried out earlier this year by the Climate Policy Council of the Government's work on climate policy, which specifically addresses the application of the four-step principle. The Climate Policy Council also concludes that it is a one-sided focus on Stage 3 and Stage 4 measures, i.e. building new infrastructure capacity at the expense of Stage 1 and Stage 2 measures that have more focus on behavioural changes and public transport spending. Another problem, according to the Climate Policy Council, is that the Finnish Transport Agency lacks a mandate to co-finance Stage 1 and Stage 2 measures, i.e. those that could lead to reduced or changed transport patterns. This means, in practice, that the State has difficulty financing measures for behavioural changes, but instead has a full mandate to finance the construction of new infrastructure. This is completely backwards. We in the Left Party therefore believe that the government should clarify to Trafikverket how the agency should work more actively with the first step in the four-step principle, i.e. to try to solve shortcomings through reduced demand or transfer to other modes of transport. We in the Left Party also believe that the report by the National Audit Office clearly shows that there is currently no possibility of state co-financing for the important stage 1 and stage 2 measures in the county plans or in the national transport plan. The responsibility for financing and implementing these measures lies today with municipalities, with regions and sometimes with private actors. We therefore believe that the government must come back with proposals for how we can have state co-financing for precisely Stage 1 and Stage 2 measures. With these proposals, we can take steps towards a more socio-economically efficient, rational and, in particular, ecologically sustainable infrastructure planning.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-341	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. We have just debated the railway area. There we talked about investing more than SEK 600 billion in our infrastructure. Now we are going to debate what enables us to save this money. We will use the tax money we invest in infrastructure as well as possible. As regards the importance of planning the transport system in accordance with the four-step principle, we fully agree in committee. On the other hand, with regard to the national transport infrastructure plan, the Government argues that the Finnish Transport Agency should identify possible problems in meeting the Government's ambitions regarding the four-step principle, in particular the step 1 and step 2 measures. If such problems are identified, Trafikverket will promptly report this to the Government together with proposals for solutions that ensure the Government's ambitions. What is to be said about this? As soon as Trafikverket discovers that the Government's ambition for the four-step principle is not met, Trafikverket will return to the Government. Jens Holm has here very well explained the different steps in the four-step principle. I would just like to add one thing that I did not understand Jens Holm has told me about. It is very easy for Trafikverket to act in step 3 and in step 4 itself when it comes to a facility that you own, when it comes to a facility that you rebuild or when it comes to a completely new facility that you build. This competence is one's own. But in step 1, when you need to rethink, you are very dependent on your environment and all other actors – everything from municipalities and companies to individuals. There I think the challenge is much greater. We in the committee have the same ambition about this, and the Government also has the ambition that the Swedish Transport Administration should follow up on this. We will look at this again and see if there have been any changes. But when it comes to achieving these changes, where in step 1 even goes into traffic behaviour, the Finnish Transport Administration cannot do this on its own, but there the Swedish Transport Administration needs support and help from us politicians here in the Riksdag and that we also act at regional level with our party colleagues out in the regions and municipalities. I do not believe that this understanding exists automatically, but it requires a very great deal of work to change the behaviour that exists today. There, of course, we should not give up, but there we should join forces and work to achieve even greater efficiency in our investments. But, as I said, Madam President, as far as steps 3 and 4 are concerned, the Finnish Transport Administration can in principle do things itself. Step 1 is highly dependent on the environment and the rest of society.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-348	Madam President, I would like Jasenko Omanovic himself took steps 1 and 2 measures, that is to say what concerns behavioural changes and not building new roads. According to Trafikverket itself, these tools are not fully available. They say that they do not have their own funding for stage 1 measures, to achieve behavioural change instead of expanding new capacity, which we know leads to more traffic and increased emissions. It would be interesting to hear what the Social Democrats think about this. Do the Social Democrats think that the Swedish Transport Administration should be able to co-finance step 1 solutions, which are about behavioural change? If they think so, the government probably needs to give the Finnish Transport Administration such a directive so that you know that you can be involved in financing step 1 solutions with behavioural changes. Do the Social Democrats believe that the Finnish Transport Administration should be able to do so?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-350	Madam President, I would like I mentioned in my speech that the Finnish Transport Administration cannot influence this itself. It would be like I came home to Jens Holm and said: Now you can redecorate because I'm here. I know this better than you can. Cooperation is needed here. The municipalities are still independent and can actually decide for themselves in dialogue with the Finnish Transport Administration. The Finnish Transport Administration is doing a lot of investigations. Sometimes they lead nowhere, as there is no acceptance on the other side to make behavioral changes. What is fundamentally needed is dialogue. The Finnish Transport Agency needs to sit down and have a dialogue with the stakeholders involved. It is the foundation of this, that one should not be able to sit over someone else. You have to be able to work together. If you are going to build a school, the Swedish Transport Administration cannot decide where the school should be located, but there should be a dialogue with the municipality that builds the school, I think, Madam President.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-353	Madam President, I would like Close cooperation between the state and local and regional decision-makers is absolutely necessary. That's how it's supposed to work today when it works properly. The four-step principle is actually a fantastic planning tool. It says that only in exceptional cases – the last step – will we build new roads. It can happen when you've exhausted everything else. Then it may be that municipalities plan for behavioral change and smart mobility solutions. Then the Finnish Transport Administration comes and plans for new infrastructure. Then something's not working. It can also be municipalities and regions that say they have smart solutions and want car pools, more car sharing, adjusting parking fees and the like, or trying to make other behavioural changes instead of building a new road. But for that, they need money. The Finnish Transport Agency may also think these are good solutions but has no funding of its own. That's where you stand. You can see the solutions in front of you, but Trafikverket does not have the mandate to finance Stage 1 solutions. On the other hand, Trafikverket has a full mandate to finance new roads. We in the Left Party believe that this is backwards. We have great principles, but when we cannot fill the principles with money in national planning, it will be a little blurry. We therefore believe that the Swedish Transport Administration must be able to have money and mandate to finance behavioural changes. Don't the Social Democrats think so too?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-357	Madam President, I would like I think Mr Holm is confusing things up a little bit. The first part does not mean investment. Steps 3 and 4 deal with investment. The first part is not about investment but about rethinking and thinking about how we together do to achieve the best sustainable society where we are. That's what it's all about. As I understand Jens Holm's line, he wants the Swedish Transport Administration to have funds to build. Steps 3 and 4 are about building. Step 1 concerns behavior, changing things, how we behave and how we work. There you need what Jens Holm himself has been into, namely cooperation between the Swedish Transport Administration, municipalities, regions and other actors about the regional plan, municipal investment plans and such things together with what the Swedish Transport Administration does. Then it is possible to do something. If Trafikverket is re-building something, step 3 and step 4, not step 1 of the four-step principle.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-360	Madam President, I would like There are certainly many who are satisfied with the four-step principle, in particular those who protect a cumbersome administration with high costs of investigation, but also those who are doing their utmost to combat motorism and heavy commercial traffic. Of course, the idea of the four-step principle can be fundamentally good in that no unnecessary measures should be taken. But the four-step principle is used in practice to stop even the most obvious road infrastructure projects. An example can be found in my county, Skåne. Road E6 in Skåne is for many years in need of another lane in each direction. It is extremely clear that all transit traffic from abroad means that the road is covered by trucks to the rest of Sweden. In addition to this, there is a lot of heavy domestic traffic on the E6 and the population-heavy western Skåne with its large labour market has created a need for private commuting. This together makes the road cork again, and accidents happen far too often. Despite the most obvious – almost abusing – the Finnish Transport Agency uses the four-step principle and at all costs will not extend this path to six files. That's remarkable. Now, after massive criticism, they have made a small concession and are in three lanes in each direction at short distances between Malmö and Lund, but this is not enough. The entire E6 in Skåne needs to be made sex enemy, and here it is clear that the four-step principle does not work in practice. The Swedish National Audit Office is strongly critical of several parts of the four-step principle. The Swedish Democrats essentially agree with the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism of the government and the Swedish Transport Administration in the report. We share the view that the Swedish Transport Administration needs to develop its working methods in order to achieve more cost-effective investments in the transport sector. We Swedish democrats see several problems with the four-step principle and believe that there is a need to investigate whether a new method should be introduced, and we would therefore like to point out the following. With regard to the first step of the four-step principle, we believe that it is doubtful whether this should even occur, as it includes measures that the Swedish Transport Administration lacks advice over. These may include issues such as the introduction of taxes, such as congestion taxes, or other charges. Instead, political decisions are needed. We also believe that a measure such as reducing the need for travel is an example of when the Swedish Transport Administration does not necessarily have advice either. One example may be to reduce the need for travel by getting people to live in the same place where they work. Is this a matter for the Finnish Transport Administration? Our view is also that the Swedish Transport Administration should work to ensure that freight flows and passenger transport can be carried out according to the needs of the company and that the work should not seek to reduce transport needs. For example, it is county transport and not Trafikverket that can advise on information campaigns for increased use of public transport. Against this background, we believe – and this, my friends, is very important – that it is justified to investigate whether the first steps of the four-step principle should be tested at all. We Swedish democrats have on several occasions criticised the government regarding the Swedish infrastructure's standard and the lack of maintenance of it. We therefore believe that the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism is of the utmost importance when it comes to the lack of information in most selection studies to enable assessments of the seriousness of the reported deficiencies. We therefore believe that more qualitative benchmarks should be developed. We believe that it should be examined whether an amount limit should be set for the conduct of a selection study. The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows examples where the investigation costs of choice studies exceed the costs of the measure. This is bizarre. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office points out that quality often fails in the choice of measures studies. In view of the competence of the Finnish Transport Administration, it is relevant to ask whether it is too difficult to work according to the four-step principle, and this should also be included in a future investigation. Having said that, we look forward to a move and the development of either a new and better method than the four-step principle or a highly revised four-step principle. I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-372	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to point out that when Patrik Jönsson spoke it could sound like the Swedish National Audit Office criticises the four-step principle as such and the motives behind it. I find no such criticism in the Swedish National Audit Office's review. On the other hand, the Swedish National Audit Office criticises the application of the four-step principle and the mandate that the Swedish Transport Administration feels it has to apply step 1 and step 2 in the four-step principle. What the Swedish Democrats choose to do is to boil up a soup of this one where they do not seem to want us to apply the four-step principle at all in infrastructure planning and where the Swedish Democrats obviously do not think it is important to achieve behavioural changes in infrastructure planning. If, for example, we can find measures to reduce motorism and reduce road transport in favour of rail and maritime transport, we will make use of those measures. I would like to ask Patrik Jönsson two questions. The first is: Do the Swedish Democrats not think that we need to take action for behavioural changes in traffic policy? The second is: Do the Swedish Democrats not think that the four-step principle correctly applied is an important tool in infrastructure planning?
i-Qi8FNX1kfpsvhC9hi4gE2F	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the questions, Jens Holm! The entry values of the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats probably differ significantly. The Swedish Democrats see the need for well-functioning infrastructure in the country both for rail and maritime transport, as well as for motorists and those who transport goods by truck. For this to work and for the country to feel good, for goods to be delivered to and from shops and for people to be able to transport themselves to and from work, one must be able to do so in the most efficient and best way. For many people, car transport is one of the basics necessary to get to work. For companies, it is incredibly important that goods arrive on time, and then trucks are one of the most widely used alternatives. If we look at what the Swedish National Audit Office says, we see that they actually have quite large complaints about step 1 and that the Swedish Transport Administration cannot afford the proposals that can be made. A congestion tax cannot be introduced by the Finnish Transport Administration. You can't force people to live in the same place they work. The Swedish National Audit Office brings this forward. The chairman of the Transport Committee, Jens Holm, could not have missed that. We are looking at what is best for the country, and we see that the four-step principle is not adequate. We see that the necessary measures cannot be implemented and justified by the four-step principle – we believe that this is wrong. We think it is very important for both road and rail infrastructure to be expanded but do not think categorically, like the Left Party, that there should not in principle be cars and trucks, but we see the need for everything.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-378	Madam President, I would like Now I don't think I got any answers to my questions. My first question was whether the Swedish Democrats believe that it is important to promote behavioural changes in traffic and infrastructure planning. I ask that question because the Swedish Democrats choose to draw the conclusion from the Swedish National Audit Office's review that it is doubtful whether the Swedish Transport Administration should work with step 1 measures at all. That is what the Swedish Democrats' motion says. My second question was whether the Swedish Democrats think the four-step principle is an important tool to work with at all. I don't think I got an answer to that question either. I think it is relevant because the Swedish Democrats want it to be investigated whether we should work on the four-step principle at all. Why, then, is the four-step principle so important? Because, as in any other context, we must prioritise, and from the climate we must do everything we can to reduce our emissions from the transport sector. If we can get people to travel less and choose other modes of transport that burden our nature less, we will of course take those measures. I thought we agreed on that, but obviously the Swedish Democrats do not agree with us. What is the policy of the Swedish Democrats? Do you want us to promote behavioral changes... yes or no? Do you want the four-step principle to be applied at all – yes or no?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-382	Madam President, I would like I thought I was pretty clear about what our vision of this is, Jens Holm. It is clear that some kind of selection tool is needed. The four-step principle is one of these, and I am sure we are very much in agreement with that in committee. But we are not satisfied with how this selection tool is built up, for example that step 1 is one of the measures that is based on political decisions rather than something that the Swedish Transport Administration can afford. This concerns the Swedish National Audit Office. That is why we want to revise the principle and remove those parts. For example, in order to reduce administrative costs, we have also chosen to propose that the next tool should set an amount limit on the choice of measures studies to be carried out precisely so that it will not cost more to investigate a project than to do the project. From Jens Holm's side they mean that motorism should not in principle exist. I think it's taking it a little too far. We depend on cars and trains. We depend on being able to get from A to B, for example from home to study and from home to work. That's where the car is very important. It is a freedom, and I believe that freedom is highly valued by my constituents. For you to have this freedom, you have to be able to transport yourself in a good way. The four-step principle limits this, or at least it is used as a limiting tool, and we do not think that is a good thing. Where there is a need for transport, there should also be good opportunities for infrastructure, and that is what the Swedish Transport Administration should focus on.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-386	Madam President, I would like The four-step principle assumes that the transport system will be designed and developed on the basis of a holistic approach that weighs different alternatives against each other. The aim is to find the best measures to solve different problems in the transport system. I would like to reiterate what has been stated here before, that it is primarily about influencing the need for transport. Ultimately, it is about spending money and investing in new construction. The four-step principle is as follows: Step 1: Rethink. This means considering measures that may affect transport demand and the choice of modes of transport. Step 2: Optimize. It is a question of considering measures that involve an effective use of the existing structure. Step 3: Rebuild. It is a question of considering, if necessary, limited, minor reconstructions. Step 4: Build new. If the need cannot be met by any of the previous three steps, new investments and major conversion measures can be considered. In order to apply the four-step principle, a choice of measures is used in the process to take account of the different modes of transport and their combinations. However, it is rarely concluded that the proposals result in Stage 1 and Stage 2 measures, which could be the most cost-effective measures. This has been reviewed by the Swedish National Audit Office. There has also been criticism of how it is applied. However, I would like to emphasise that we from the Green Party have been driving for a long time to apply the four-step principle. It is important from an economic perspective but also from an ecological perspective. We are also aware that there are shortcomings in Trafikverket's work on the four-step principle. I and my colleague Lorentz Tovatt exercised only last autumn that we want to increase the possibilities for the Swedish Transport Administration to co-finance precisely Stage 1 and Stage 2 measures. That is something we still believe. We think it is a good thing, because all relevant legislation during the term of office should be reviewed on the basis of the Climate Act. In this respect, we believe that any ambiguity in how the four-step principle is dealt with and how steps 1 and 2 measures can be financed can be highlighted. As I said, we welcome the audit carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office. But we think it is important to remember that a number of measures have actually been taken. The Government and the Riksdag have on several occasions emphasised that the four-step principle should be applied. Then you can ask yourself how clear you need to be. As has been said, the Parliament and the Government have stressed that it is important to apply a cross-road approach when considering what measures should be taken to develop the transport system and that the proposed measures should be analysed on the basis of the four-step principle. The Government has therefore made it clear that the long-term planning of the transport infrastructure should be based on a cross-road approach in both the Swedish Transport Administration's instruction and the Swedish Transport Administration's mission directive. In the latest directives for the Swedish Transport Administration's action plan for the planning period 2018 – 2029, there is also a requirement for the Swedish Transport Administration to report how the four-step principle and a cross-road perspective have been applied in the proposals for plans. The freight transport strategy also states that the transport system consists of different modes of transport and modes of transport that interact and complement each other. In a number of ways, both the parliament and the government have stressed that the four-step principle should be applied. At the end of the last parliamentary term, the Government also commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to identify possible problems in meeting the Government's ambition regarding the four-step principle, in particular on stage 1 and stage 2 measures. If such problems are identified, Trafikverket will promptly report this to the Government together with proposals for solutions that ensure the Government's ambitions. I therefore agree with the reservations of the Green Party and the Social Democrats on this matter. We believe that the government has taken a great deal of action. In its recommendations, the Swedish National Audit Office believes that it should be clarified how the Swedish Transport Administration should work with the different stages of the four-step principle. As far as clarification is concerned, I wonder how clear one needs to be. Then there may be obstacles to financing and collaboration in an effective way with municipalities and regions, and there is certainly potential for improvement. But that is not what is stated in the recommendations from the Swedish National Audit Office. As I said, it is very important to work on the four-step principle and to have the opportunity to work more closely with step 1 and step 2 measures to reduce the need for costly and expensive investments, but also to deal effectively with traffic and transport climate emissions. As the issue of the E6 was raised earlier in this debate, Madam President, I would like to point out that it is an example of how the four-step principle has been applied in a way that has allowed unnecessary and expensive investments to be avoided. It is very positive that the Swedish Transport Administration is now applying the four-step principle to avoid making unnecessary investments in additional infrastructure. I would like to emphasise that very much.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-403	Madam President, I would like The Moderates build their infrastructure policy on two important principles. The first principle is that a functioning infrastructure is a prerequisite for growth and employment. That's what we usually say about the bloodstream in the building of society itself. We are talking about huge sums of money in terms of infrastructure. There, the second principle of Moderates will protect taxpayers' money. Seeing the benefits of every investment is very important. The four-step principle is not a new tool. It has been at the Swedish Transport Administration, previously the Swedish Road Administration, since 1997, for more than 20 years. It is not a new tool, but it is not a new criticism either. I do not need to go through the four-step principle, but I have to thank Jens Holm and Emma Berginger for their good briefings. The Swedish National Audit Office's report deals with a great deal of criticism. The government has then responded to the criticism, and that is really what we are debating here today. I think it is good that there is a broad political consensus that the four-step principle is good in theory or, as Jens Holm said here in the debate and which I intend to steal, that the right one is a very good principle. At a time of increased traffic, lack of maintenance, which we have just spoken about in the last debate, and increased climate pressures, it is important that we use all the investments we make properly. We must use the money responsibly, ensure that the workforce is in the right place and that we reduce climate-related traffic and stimulate it in the right and effective way. That is why this is a good principle. Madam President, I would like The report criticises the fact that it is not effective and that the focus remains on steps 3 and 4. We cannot do that, partly because it is not an effective use of tax funds and partly because it takes too long to build new ones everywhere. I have read what the government has written and that the Swedish Transport Administration has taken on some of the criticisms. However, as the Moderates' motion and the committee's proposal show, it is not enough. Among other things, the Swedish National Audit Office recommends in its report the Government to clarify what it means and what measures should be tested with a cross-road approach. We know that road transport accounts for 30% of climate emissions, that traffic is increasing and how important it is that we use our investments properly to achieve our goals. I have said many times in this House that we cannot set modes of transport against each other, but we must invest in the right place. Then it is a little strange that the government responds in the way it does. I don't really understand how to interpret that. The Government writes that it does not share the Swedish National Audit Office's view that today's governance does not support cross-border working methods. Madam President, I would like It is, as I said, very big money we are talking about in terms of infrastructure, and it is therefore important that investment makes the greatest possible social benefit. It may seem obvious then that it is important that the calculations used are correct and fair. The Moderates and the Committee believe that the Government should commission the Finnish Transport Administration to work on developing the socio-economic calculation models of infrastructure investments and that social investments are preceded by policy choices and prioritised according to the four-step principle. I have noted that the Swedish Transport Administration has also noted that there have been quality problems and that measures have been taken to address them. That's good. One might think that would have happened earlier. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has also criticised the cost assessments available for the choice of measures studies. It is, of course, a serious criticism, but the government has taken it on board and will take action. The committee will, of course, follow this. I support the committee's proposal.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-415	Madam President, I would like When the Swedish Transport Administration is preparing a selection study, all projects must be examined in accordance with the four-step principle. This principle implies that possible improvements in the transport system should be examined gradually as follows: consider measures that may affect transport demand; consider measures that result in more efficient use of existing infrastructure; consider limited redevelopments; and consider new investments or major redevelopments. We Christian Democrats believe that this principle is a good one. It is a cost-effective way of trying to analyse how to develop a traffic system. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that there is so far no comprehensive evaluation of the new planning process in which the four-step principle should be guiding. The purpose of the review has therefore been to examine whether the four-step principle is applied as intended in the Swedish Transport Administration's action plan and in the choice of measures studies carried out by the Agency. The Swedish National Audit puts forward some criticisms, and we Christian Democrats agree with this. We have therefore supported the motion which then became the committee's position. The KD therefore supports the committee's proposal for a declaration to the government that the government is taking measures to ensure the impact of the four-step principle.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-419	Madam President, I would like Due to Magnus Jacobsson's relatively short contribution, I am interested to hear a little more about how he believes the government will take action for the impact of the four-step principle. What else is Magnus Jacobsson asking for? Madam President, I would like When I was in the speaker's chair, I forgot to agree to our reservation, so I'm doing it now.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-421	Madam President, I would like Basically, it is about what the committee points out. We have wanted more clarity. One can always ask the rhetorical question: is it not enough that we agree in principle? Nevertheless, we have landed in asking for more clarity and therefore supported the committee's position. There are other interesting questions, such as how the whole principle works. It was an interesting line change earlier. We probably differ from some other parties in that we think that more infrastructure than one might sometimes think will continue to be on the way even when we work on the four-step principle. But the basic idea is that the four-step principle should be used when analysing whether new infrastructure is needed, and we think it is important that the government also points to how this should work forward.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-423	Madam President, I would like I did not quite understand what kind of clarification Mr Jacobsson wishes to see. Let me stress that the Green Party considers it important to use the four-step principle, not only for economic efficiency but also for achieving the agreed climate targets. We want the transport sector's climate emissions, which actually make up one third of its domestic emissions, to be reduced by 70% by 2030. Then it is important that Sweden makes the right priorities so that we do not make it difficult to reach the climate targets.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-425	Madam President, I would like What we have pointed out, among other things, is that the government will work to develop the socio-economic calculation model for infrastructure investments and clearly define what is meant by cross-traffic allocation in the work on the upcoming infrastructure bill. That is what the report says, and we have chosen to support it.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-426	Madam President, I would like Sweden has presented a national plan of 700 billion to develop the Swedish transport infrastructure between 2018 and 2029. This plan will be updated during the term of office, and it is then important that we prioritise based on a fair basis. An important instrument for prioritising between different measures to improve infrastructure and achieve our climate goals is the so-called four-step principle. The aim is, among other things, to provide support for cost-effective solutions. In short, the four steps mean that, firstly, one sees whether one can influence the demand and choice of transport modes; secondly, see whether one can use existing infrastructure smarter; thirdly, whether to propose limited redevelopments. Only then can new investments or major conversion measures be proposed as a fourth measure. In other words, the four-step principle is important. The Swedish National Audit Office has now examined how this principle is applied in the Swedish Transport Administration's action plan. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that the government's and the Finnish Transport Agency's governance does not support a cross-road approach, and it proposes a number of measures, which the Liberals support. We agree with the Swedish National Audit Office that the Government should ensure that the four-step principle is used as intended to produce cost-effective solutions. At the same time, it is important to develop the underlying socio-economic calculation models for infrastructure investments. In particular, it concerns the valuation of freight transport. Finally, the choice of measures to solve various deficiencies should be tested with a more cross-road perspective. The Finnish Transport Agency conducts choice studies in all modes of transport, but the deficiencies that need to be addressed are rarely described based on how they can be solved with different modes of transport. This is particularly important when technology progress is fast. The amount of electric vehicles is increasing, and electric flights will become reality in the next decade. In other words, climate-smart choices are increasing. How do we take this into account in the calculations for, for example, electric roads and new railways? This is very important, especially when you look at the connection between high-speed trains and electric flights. It is important that we take advantage of the potential of all modes of transport, and it is therefore gratifying that the Liberals, together with the Center Party, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, are sending an announcement to the government in order to get as soon as possible the shortcomings pointed out by the National Audit Office.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-435	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my speech by stating that we share the government's view on the need for a new pricing model. However, we do not think it is enough to change the price, but we need a completely new postal legislation. We have therefore proposed that the price model should be evaluated after five years and also believe that there is a need for an investigation to develop a long-term solution for postal operations. Madam President, I would like With us who have our roots outside the metropolitan regions there is a concern about what is happening to Sweden. We see emergency departments and BB being dismantled, how police houses are closed and how employment services and insurance funds are centralised to larger locations. But when we try to develop our farms and homes, other government officials come and deny building permits due to proximity to streams or to a small lake. We have problems when we want to develop our local hydroelectric plants, and our sewers are inspected even though they do not have major emissions that affect the environment. In short, the authorities that provide security are being dismantled, but the authorities that are perceived as both rigid and difficult to communicate with seem to have more and more resources to hunt the rural population. Madam President, I would like It is from this perspective that it must be understood that many people living in rural areas are concerned about Postnord's development. Letters don't come on time, and service is perceived as deteriorating. At the same time, we hear talk of higher prices, bi-day distribution and the reduction in the number of country mail carriers. Postal services are an important social institution that must function whether we are at peace or at risk. It gives people security and the opportunity to communicate with loved ones regardless of whether you own a computer or not. The postal service gives small and medium-sized companies the opportunity to develop their business ideas and send mails to customers both inside and outside Sweden. It is therefore not good that this old institution risks deteriorating to the mild degree that citizens lose confidence in Sweden's ability to deliver mail throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 2.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-443	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, TU19 A revised price ceiling for free-labelled letters. Madam President, I would like Now I have stood in this speaker's chair a few times, and almost every time I have said that we are living in an exciting time. The possibilities of digitalisation are enormous, but at the same time this places demands on society to deliver the same service as before. That is why we, as political leaders, must ensure that the service to our citizens continues to be good. One of the most affected service areas we have is postal mail. Letter volumes in the Swedish postal market continue to decrease. Since 2000, the volume of letters has decreased by about 36 per cent. Mailnord has lost 47 percent of its letter volumes during the same period. In 2017, a total of 2.2 billion consignments were sent. This is a decrease of 3 per cent compared to 2016. Postnord's letter volumes have fallen by 5% – this is 2% higher than for the market as a whole. PTS reports – the report itself has not come, but this is an oral report – that the reduction in Postnord's letter volumes in 2018 can be up to 10 per cent, and then Postnord does not lose these volumes to other postal operators but to digitalisation. That is why we need price regulation in the postal regulation. It is in order to create the necessary conditions for more sustainable regulation that increases the ability to provide this universal service in a more sustainable way. According to the Postal Act, the universal service must be ensured through procurement. This is another reason for changing price regulation. Should it be necessary to procure the service in such cases, further investigation and analysis is required, such as which parts of the universal postal service cannot be maintained and why, as well as calculations of what it would cost us taxpayers. PTS has been tasked by the Government to develop a price increase ceiling according to the investigation's proposal, which means that those who distribute mail in addition to changes in the CPI should be able to raise prices with the percentage change in the volume of the service in a given year. In its presentation to the committee in 2019, Postnord stressed the need for a reformed price cap as proposed by PTS. Postnord pointed out that the universal postal service in Sweden will in the near future cause financial losses to the Group and thus jeopardise the conditions for carrying out the public service mission in its current form. PTS also reaches the same conclusion in the report Swedish Post Market 2019. Madam President, I would like The letter shows that the proposed price increase model may raise postage for free-labelled letters more than would have been permitted under the current price increase ceiling. However, according to the Postal Law investigation, this has little impact on private individuals. 38 percent of those who send letters pay between SEK 51 and 200. This change of SEK 1 would mean that they will receive an annual extra cost of SEK 30. Madam President, I would like Amendments to the Postal Act give PTS the opportunity to specify the universal postal service. The application of the Postal Act can therefore be adapted to the needs of users. This can contribute to better conditions for maintaining a good and functional postal service throughout the country in the long term. It also provides greater clarity both for the provider of the postal service and for all postal recipients in the country as to the level of service to be guaranteed. In conclusion, I would like to say that a well-functioning postal service is of central importance in society, and I welcome the measures taken to safeguard a high-quality universal postal service. In the light of what I have said, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for reservations to be rejected.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-456	Madam President, I would like We are now faced with worrying signals of capacity and electricity shortages in Sweden. The company Ellevio says that this autumn they will start denying customers connection to the electricity grid in Stockholm. In Gothenburg, combined heat and power production is reduced so that margins are reduced. In Skåne, the company Pågen testifies that they cannot grow and hire as they want and want because there is no electricity effect. This is not reasonable, Madam President. The situation is also exacerbated by decisions and discussions about things like electricity grids but also about local production, such as cogeneration. The energy industry raises questions about problems and challenges, as does the business community. Even the County Governor of Stockholm wants to lead an Electric Crisis Commission on behalf of Minister Ygeman. This is reason enough for Parliament to address this and to debate it. That is reason enough to make an independent analysis to see what has gone wrong in the Government Office, to change and to counter the shortage of electricity and capacity, Madam President.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-459	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Moderates for initiating this debate. In this way, we may be able to sort out some of the misunderstandings that are rife in the debate and that risk scaring people and businesses unnecessarily – something I do not think the Moderates want to contribute to. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a surplus of electricity. We export between 15 and 20 terawatt hours a year. 51 out of 52 weeks a year we are net exporters of electricity. The few days we import electricity is primarily hydropower from Norway. We also have a broad energy agreement in place. It is an agreement that brings together 70% of this House. It provides long-term ground rules for the industry. This is something that the outside world envys us and that other countries have unfortunately failed to do. According to the IEA, we have the best electricity grid in the world. This gives us the right conditions to meet the challenges we face. A rapidly growing population in metropolitan areas and an increasingly rapidly electrified society mean that electricity grid capacity needs to be increased. It concerns core networks, regional networks and local networks. Let me say at the outset, however, that this is essentially a positive development. That society is growing, that it is frustrating and that Sweden is doing well is something we should be happy about. Several have in recent years highlighted the need to expand the electricity grids at a faster pace. I believe that everyone in this House can agree on this. In the debate, it may sound as if nothing is being done, but the reality is rather the opposite. Swedish power grids tenfold the investments in electricity grids. On Monday, I received the final report of the network concession investigation, which contains proposals to halve the time for the construction of important electricity networks. But it is not enough to build core networks. Local and regional networks must also be expanded, and here we see a different development. Despite dramatic increases in profits, the networks are not sufficiently invested. One of the major electricity grid owners increased their profits by 360 percent last year. However, investment has not increased significantly. The Government has therefore decided on new rules to increase incentives for grid expansion and reduce the large profits that affect Swedish electricity consumers. Many electricity consumers have had to see their electricity bills rising in recent years. Since 2014, electricity grid prices have increased by an average of 27.4 per cent. In Kramfors, customers' electricity grid charges have increased by 84 per cent in five years. I'm afraid the big grid companies are the worst. Eon, for example, has increased its electricity grid charges by nearly 40% over the last five years. At the same time, investment in networks has failed to correspond at all to the price increases on the consumer side. The proposed new government order has been criticised by the EU but also by the Moderates. They want electricity consumers to have even higher electricity bills. The new regulation provides stronger incentives for electricity grid expansion and 17 billion SEK lower electricity costs for consumers. For an ordinary homeowner, it can be several thousands a year. But the Moderates would rather that the big electricity grid companies continue to make huge profits at the expense of ordinary people. The Moderates, as we have heard here today, are also critical of the tax on cogeneration. Heat has an important role to play in the energy supply, but it must bear its own climate and environmental costs, just like any other power generation. Moderately controlled Stockholm wants to shut down electricity generation in Stockholm Exergi while worrying about the municipality's electricity supply. In several municipalities, power grid expansion is stopped. One is not prepared to make a little less profit in the municipal-owned company in order to guarantee electricity supply for Stockholmers. If we are to cope with climate change, Sweden will need to be electrified. It is a change that has already begun but where large parts are still ahead of us. Sweden may have the best conditions in the world to make this transition.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-471	Madam President, I would like I want, and we want, more companies to establish and grow in Sweden. That is why I am concerned when a company like Pågen, which is one of the largest private employers in Malmö, cannot grow and hire as they want and wish because there is no electricity effect. If this had been a single example, it could have passed, but it is one of several that is now coming up. This lack of capacity in networks and products not only affects businesses. In my hometown there is a concern and discussion about whether you will be able to electrify public transport as you have thought. It's the same in Stockholm. There is a discussion about whether the power supply is sufficient for an extended metro. In Malmö it is about an expanded hospital, whether it will be able to connect to the electricity grid and whether the electricity power is sufficient or not. This is not reasonable. Households and businesses should be able to count on secure access to electricity and other energy. I believe that action is needed. We have proposed a cogeneration package in which we opt out of the government's directly harmful taxation on cogeneration and pair it with good building rules, reasonable rules for biofuels and forest policy. We want electricity grid regulation to be reviewed and the question raised: will the necessary network investments be made so that we can electrify public transport, connect new hospitals and build new homes? We have also proposed faster investments in electricity grids and electricity generation. We have said yes to any increase in funding for Swedish power grids. We are clear that the focus is to protect and expand hydropower and welcome more new technologies. We have also recently said that we are open to a discussion about the continued operation of Ringhals 1 and 2. All of this together, Madam President, we are doing so that households and businesses can have secure access to electricity and other energy. I wonder whether the government really understands the gravity of the situation. We have the first question about the local production of cogeneration, where not only the Moderates have been critical of the tax proposals, but also experts in general. Power companies in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and elsewhere either reduce or close power generation, taxes don't come in, margins decrease and companies like Pågen can't grow and hire. The question is: Is the government prepared to reconsider the position and consider whether something went wrong in the Government Office? The second question is the question of electricity grids, where I do not think we should do everything from scratch but ask ourselves the question: Is there any reason to look at this if the necessary network investments come into place in, for example, the capital? Not only do I say this; the European Commission also says in a letter addressed to Minister Ygeman that it should reconsider and reflect on the agreed electricity grid regulation. Madam President, I would like The question now is, with the decisions the government has taken outside the energy agreement, whether the government is prepared to look without prestige at what the consequences have been and possibly change sides.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-480	Madam President, I would like Today, at the request of the Moderates, we are debating the lack of capacity in the energy system, due to the consequences that the energy industry sees from perhaps primarily the government's increased taxes on fossil-fired cogeneration plants. The government has hardly made itself known for a well - thought - out and cautiously progressive policy. Rather, it has been known to shoot from the hip, resort to fluffy symbolism and run over the Law Council and other expert referrals. Now it has been decided that our completely unique, almost fossil-free electricity system will get rid of the little rubble that still comes from fossil-fired cogeneration plants – and quickly it will happen! The functioning and delivery of the energy system to its customers seems to be secondary. We Swedish democrats have said in our long-term goals that we should move towards a 100% fossil-free energy production. However, we believe that this is achievable only through the inclusion of installations in the EU ETS, as the current installations do. The introduction of double taxation involving an eight-fold increase in CO2 tax and a three-fold increase in energy tax will have far-reaching consequences, namely that installations will not be in use when winter comes. At least that's a real risk. Or to quote the heavy consultation panel Energy companies Sweden: ..................................................... How, then, have the Government and Energy Minister Anders Ygeman responded to this heavy criticism of government policy? The criticism is a short-term political score, he says in a context. In another context, he says that a private energy company is reluctant to pay environmental costs. In a situation where it is a matter of operating parts with a loss, they say to private companies: It is you who do not like to pay environmental costs. In the midst of this energy crisis, however, I think I have found a clue to the government's actions. I find it on Twitter, where the Government writes about a Greta to be named: So let hope revolve around the star Greta as a reminder of what needs to be done for the survival of our planet. Few Swedes have contributed so much to hope... as Greta Thunberg. ..................................................... Our energy minister is therefore led here by a child who preaches that we politicians should make decisions based on a sense of panic. Perhaps it can say a little bit about these panicous decisions. That's pretty much what children do sometimes.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-488	Madam President, I would like A debate on the lack of capacity in the Swedish electricity network is welcome. I hope that this marks a return to focusing on real problems rather than conducting election propaganda. It is about bottlenecks in the networks, that electricity – no matter how much is produced in large wind farms, in nuclear power stations or in hydropower – simply does not get into the cities. It is important to point out that there is no one without electricity. It's about potential extensions that won't happen. The risk that we will have completely extinguished cities that some are spreading terror propaganda about simply does not exist. However, the fact that the problems are serious and need to be addressed is self-evident. It is equally obvious that as a centre party leader, it is only when the big cities have problems that the other parties wake up. This is not news. The capacity shortage has been on Gotland for a long time. Nevertheless, plans for a third cable have been cut. Even in Uppsala, the problems have existed for a long time. But when Stockholm and Malmö alert, the other parties answer. I welcome the fact that we are now beginning to talk about solutions. For Gotland, the third cable is given. The permit exists; it is only to resume the construction – if now the other parties actually prioritise it and want Gotland's well-being. For the other cities, the situation is a little more difficult. The Center Party has long advocated a number of solutions that would make a significant difference in both the short and long term. We've been talking about a green trail in the state processes so that it's faster to get the things that really make a difference, in this case electricity grids. We have talked about enabling user flexibility, that is, not everything must be used at the same time. This is what causes problems in the network, which means that you cannot guarantee electricity during that peak load hour when we all use it most. For example, if we can use our water heaters and heat pumps a little smarter and not drive them all at the same time, there is capacity to download. This is about flexible electricity tax and the pilot experiments with flexible electricity grid charges and other things that we have pushed for. That makes a difference right away. It is also about giving network companies the opportunity to procure local power over time so that they can actually keep some of the power plants and also switch to renewables. This is about securing the green-gas principle, i.e. the principle that if you run a power plant on biogas and pamper just as much biogas elsewhere in the system – just as it works with the original electricity trade – you can also keep a number of power plants that would otherwise have been closed down. These are solutions that make a difference in reality, several of them already in the short term. To this we also have the online concession investigation that has come. It's time to do a workshop and let go of the election rhetoric!
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-495	Madam President, the Government, colleagues and you who listen digitally! I would like to begin by thanking the Moderates for raising the interesting and important issue of capacity shortages in the electricity system. I am pleased that, then, the Moderates have come to an understanding of the ability of market forces to deal with important social functions. How have they succeeded? What happened when the markets were liberalised so that there are municipal networks, local networks and transmission from the Swedish power grid? Who should be responsible for having the capacity to distribute electricity? We have electricity in the country, just as many have been inside. We have a production of electricity. V i exports between 15 and 20 terawatt hours per year. Somewhere, then, the question arises: whose responsibility is it that the networks have not been sufficiently expanded? I heard in the Introductory Statement of the Moderates that it is blamed that the Government Office has not done enough. We in the Left Party always say that harmful subsidies should be phased out, and I can go as far as saying that this signal to power plant owners should have come earlier. One should have had the insight that this would happen and become aware that it was now a reality. What you have done well, Madam President, is to distribute profits from the online companies. It has become a monopoly, and it has certainly not broken there. There have been huge profits, and they have been distributed. But the signals that there will be a shortage have been there for a long time. There I can also give a small boot to Swedish power grid: Already ten twelve years ago they started talking about capacity shortages and bottlenecks between price range 2 and 3, but then it has taken a long time. We in the Left Party have long said that state processes take too long. You're supposed to work with that, and I guess now there's something going on. But putting the whole blame on the Government Office, I think, is a little bloated. In fact, there are those who are responsible for the regional networks not being able to deliver what we have in the country. I welcome the debate. It will be exciting to hear different nuances on where the problem really lies.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-501	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the lack of capacity in the electricity system, an issue that has become increasingly apparent. It is not an alarm about what will happen in ten fifteen years' time, but the problems and challenges are here and now. It is quite right that there is no shortage of electricity. It's about how to get the electricity to the right place. It can't get through. Our capacity for self-sufficient electricity generation has shrunk. We have now been able to take note of the proposal agreed by the January parties. There you literally quickly pull away the carpet through a shock - raising tax on fossil fuels for cogeneration – a tax increase that came out of nowhere, or it came about very late at night when you tried to get along. However, no real analyses could be made. Madam President, I would like In a few months, companies will have to change, which has consequences. Cogeneration production in three cities is being shut down prematurely. They wanted to remove this carpet, but they did not think, for example, that the permit process would be shortened or that changes in legislation on user flexibility might have been made first in order to give the green effect they are looking for in the first place. Now, instead, there are consequences that lack solutions. We have heard about Pågen in Malmö. Malmö has already hit the roof and cannot connect new customers. Trains are periodically allowed to drive at reduced speed, and companies are considering establishment in other countries because it is full in the network. If there is a cold winter next year, there is a risk of rotating disconnection of electrical customers. By closing a power plant before compensation is in place, Stockholm will be fully online as early as autumn and will have to say no to major connections such as new metro, new electric buses, bypass Stockholm, residential areas and new companies, which would be devastating for Sweden's prosperity and growth. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats think that this is irresponsible, because we want Sweden to succeed in reducing the climate load from both the transport and industrial sectors. Then a massive electrification is absolutely necessary – it is not enough with any charging poles on Södermalm. The solutions are missing.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-508	Madam President, I would like I thank the Moderates for the initiative for today's debate. The whole energy issue, both individually and together with the climate issue, is probably two of the greatest challenges of our time. The Swedish electricity grid needs to be equipped for billions. The policy must also deliver a long-term plan for electricity grid companies. Liberals are not behind the energy agreement, but we have welcomed an energy agreement 2.0 if the ambition level is to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and tackle climate challenges in real terms. A version 2.0 also requires that you take a holistic approach and stop thinking in drain pipes. In order for Sweden to become a fossil-free welfare country with reduced climate emissions and to achieve the goal, more electrification is required, which in turn requires a reliable electricity network. There, Sweden faces major challenges. We know that the supply of power to metropolitan areas in particular is a challenge in the coming years. Swedish power networks have also announced that they cannot guarantee increased electricity demand in these areas and are therefore planning major investments to secure capacity. Energy is the cornerstone of Swedish society and part of the solution to meet the climate challenges. If we are to develop as an industrial nation, for example by electrifying the transport sector, we must have a reliable electricity network. We also know that as many as 35 per cent of Sweden's electricity grids today are 40 years or older and need to be replaced, which corresponds to reinvestments of approximately 150 billion. The Swedish electricity market is regulated in a way that also governs price development over four years. For the electricity grid companies, this creates a twitchiness that makes it difficult to plan. In order to make the necessary investments, there must therefore be a long-term plan for the electricity grid. However, this does not give a basically monopolistic market the freedom to take responsibility. Electricity grid companies must make the necessary investments. However, long-term policies must lay the foundations. Madam President, I would like The whole energy issue, together with the climate issue, is probably two of the greatest challenges of our time. I now hope for a good dialogue between all the parties in this House. We have a difficult task, but we must stop thinking in drainpipes and together create a long-term plan.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-515	Madam President, I would like Lorentz Terawatt, maybe. The Swedish electricity grid faces challenges. However, in order to avoid confusion in the debate, let us first state what is not the major problem here. So it is not the case that the lack of capacity that we see in some parts of the country and that we are discussing here is due to the fact that Sweden as a nation produces too little electricity. We need to clear up this misunderstanding. On the contrary, Sweden is a large net exporter of electricity, and the few times we need to import it is mainly Norwegian hydropower. Large net exports are due not least to the large expansion of renewable electricity production. However, as has been said earlier, there are challenges in the network capacity itself. This is due to a far too low investment rate for many years. Fortunately, however, this trend is turning around. Swedish power networks are now investing more than in many years. The difficulty lies, of course, in long lead times and permit processes. Fortunately, there are other measures as well. We need to be smarter in terms of the actual use of electricity. Local and regional markets for trading in system services, flexible resources and new digitalised technologies need to be developed. Perhaps electricity-demanding businesses should receive compensation for disconnecting during power peaks. The price needs to be more flexible, the electricity grids need to be smarter and more local production needs to be stimulated. Madam President, I would like Challenges should be met with creativity and ambition, not with conservatism. It is not possible to build a nuclear power plant on the Main Square in Uppsala, although it sometimes sounds that way on some right parties. Instead, we have to believe in technology development and transition.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-521	Madam President, I would like Thanks for a great first round! I understood a specific question, and it was from Lars Helmered. He asked me: Is the government prepared to look prestigelessly at the consequence of the policy being pursued? My answer to that question is yes, we are – preferably together with the Moderates and the other parties in the energy agreement. Of course we should follow up on the consequences. But then it should be the consequences in reality and not in the political nightmare scenarios that are sometimes painted in the debate. The Swedish Democrats are upset that I pay tribute to Greta Thunberg. Well, that could be fun for a lot of people. But one might wonder what the Swedish Democrats' resistance to Greta Thunberg depends on. Why can't the Swedish Democrats rejoice with a successful Swedish citizen who is hailed around the world? To what do we owe this misgivings? Let me just humbly ask when Josef Fransson was invited to Barack Obama and praised by him. When was Jimmie Åkesson invited to UN headquarters and celebrated by Guterres? When were Josef Fransson and Jimmie Åkesson having coffee with the Pope and were thanked for their efforts for humanity? I may have missed these features on TV, but I sense a trait of discourtesy in the rhetoric of the Swedish Democrats. Let me therefore ask you: is it not a little strange that when millions of young people around the world go out to the streets fighting for their future and for the climate, then we are here in this House discussing lowering the tax on coal burning? Lower the tax on coal burning! It is possible that there are rational reasons for this, but let me still ask those who have argued for it: when do you think it is the right time for coal to bear its own climate costs? When is it possible to phase out coal burning in our big cities? I have noted in the debate that there are many demands on the government. It is natural in a political debate. I'd love to take it. But I'm a little wondering. Why are there no demands on the electric giants, those who have decided to shut down power production, those who have decided that if they are to bear their own climate costs, they are not going to produce electricity? Why do you want to spend electricity grid expansion costs on Sweden's hard-tested consumers? You want to increase profits for electricity grid companies by SEK 27 billion without a single additional requirement for investments. How does this increase the security of supply for Sweden's electricity consumers?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-529	Madam President, I would like The vig is now told that the company cannot grow in Malmö as it wishes and wishes. In Gothenburg there is a discussion about whether you will be able to use tens or hundreds of electric buses as you have imagined. Stockholm will announce that it will refuse to engage new customers starting this autumn. And there's a discussion about the subway. This is serious. It is for this reason that I think we should have a discussion and see what decisions the government has taken outside the energy agreement on, for example, electricity grids and local cogeneration. Then it must be a form of serious analysis when one sees the consequences. If power generation is shut down in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, so that important employers cannot expand, it is reasonable to do the analysis and are prepared to back down when something has gone wrong. Here's my question to the government. Is it prepared to be able to back down in addition to an analysis so that there will not be a shortage of electricity in the larger cities in Sweden?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-533	Madam President, I would like We are prepared to look without prestige at every decision. I am a little bit wondering: Why does Lars Hjälmered not ask his party colleague in Stockholm, who has decided to shut down power production, even though it makes hundreds of millions of profits? Why? Why are you asking me that question? I don't own any power generation. I am prepared to work for a level playing field in the market, for each type of energy to bear its own climate costs. I think it seems a bad idea to subsidise coal power, to put nuclear power, wind power or any other type of energy at a disadvantage. Please ask the question about the energy supply in Stockholm, but put it to anyone who threatens to shut down energy production in Stockholm, namely Anna Jerlmyr König, the Moderate Council of Finance.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-535	Madam President, I would like So we are in a situation where a hospital has been expanded in Malmö, but we do not know if the electricity power is enough. We do not know if electric buses in Gothenburg can be switched on. Thus, the vigour, which is a major employer, has been turned down from expanding. The responsible minister says that it is a local politician in Stockholm who is responsible. I'm easily astounded. I think we should look at what is our responsibility, namely the national policy on electricity and cogeneration to see what has gone wrong with the government's proposal. Will the necessary investments be made in the networks? Are you prepared to back down from the government when you see the consequences?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-537	Madam President, I would like For the sake of order, I have now answered Lars Hjälmered's question three times. I am prepared to look without prestige at the consequences, but there are supposed to be consequences in reality. But again I say that it is Eon, the power giant, who has decided to shut down its production. Why don't you address a question to Eon? Stockholm Exergi in Stockholm is run and owned by the Stockholms under the direction of the moderate municipal councillor. Why is the question not put to them? No one has yet been denied access to the Swedish electricity network. I have personally asked both Eon CEO and Ellevio's CEO. (Andre VICE TALMANNEN: I would like to remind both Members and ministers that everyone speaks through the President, not directly in your form. )
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-541	Madam President, I would like I guess it wasn't entirely unexpected that Mr. Ygeman would be stabbing the Greta trail. It's pretty predictable. Of course, the Government interprets it as saying that I have views on the political involvement of children. That is certainly not the case. I think children should. What I criticise is that the adult world, in this case ministers, is led by children and their conclusions. Perhaps the Minister has even misunderstood Greta Thunberg's message. Her message is: I don't want your hope. I want you to panic. That's Greta Thunberg's message. If it's spreading hope in the world, it feels like 1984 languages – Orwellian maybe.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-544	Madam President, I would like I did not hear any question from Josef Fransson, but he continues to talk about Greta Thunberg. Instead, let us discuss the climate. Josef Fransson wants to reintroduce subsidies for coal burning in Sweden in front of, for example, nuclear power or wind power. What's the background to that? When can Josef Fransson consider starting to scale down the subsidies of coal burning?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-547	Madam President, I would like It is as I said in my speech, namely that we also have a goal that there should not be fossil-fired cogeneration plants in Sweden. But at this point, one thing is true, and it is a call from the Swedish Democrats and from me to the government, namely to do it again and to do it right. Don't be in such a hurry. Listen to adults and experts, not children. That is the message I am sending with the Minister today.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-549	Madam President, I would like I am prepared to listen to the UN Panel on Climate Change, which gives advice. I am prepared to listen to the Climate Policy Council, which says that we should abolish subsidies for coal and oil combustion and phase out fossil fuels. They are clearly not prepared to listen to Josef Fransson and the Swedish Democrats.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-550	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd give the Social Democrats a third chance. During two debates in the last month, neither Monica Haider nor Patrik Engström from the Social Democrats have been able to respond. Now the question goes to Anders Ygeman. In the election movement, Minister of Energy Ibrahim Baylan spoke on 5 September. We could both hear on the radio and read that he opens for a third cable to Gotland. He said that it was important not only to make fine moves in an election movement but also to stand behind what is said. So, Anders Ygeman : Are the Social Democrats now behind this, or were they just fine words in an election movement? What have the Social Democrats done, what has the government done and what has happened since 5 September on the question of a third Gotland cable?
i-JNs2mJvt9WJxrpszXkDNDL	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the question! We now have the order in Sweden that we do not have ministers who decide which electrical cables to draw or not. Despite our tenfold increase in investments in the electricity grids, it is ultimately Swedish power grids that decide on the basis of the current situation. I have the greatest respect for the need to secure Gotland's energy supply and the need for additional cables to Gotland, but that decision will be taken by the authority.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-556	Madam President, I would like Government Ygeman says that Ibrahim Baylan, his predecessor, was wrong and did not have the right to speak on that point? He obviously promises things he can't keep. It would be possible to either enter the budget or give a mission to the Swedish power grid. It's absolutely crucial. Ygeman himself raises the climate issue. Should there be a chance to reset the heavy industry on Gotland, which accounts for 85 per cent of Sweden's cement supply, then you must have the third electricity cable. It's absolutely crucial. When's it coming?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-558	Madam President, I would like I can only welcome Rickard Nordin's commitment to Gotland's electricity supply and assure him that I have an equally warm commitment.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-559	Madam President, I would like The 2018 report of the Swedish power grid shows that the margins for the Swedish power balance and the ability to be self-sufficient with sufficient electricity in high load situations are shrinking. How is this facilitated by the withdrawal of Ringhals 1 and 2 while transmission is not extended to Malmö-Skåne, and how climate benefits the imports?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-561	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Brodin, for the question! Of course, this is not facilitated by it, but I do not think it is a major aggravating factor either. After all, we have the Energy Agreement scheme that it is the operators who decide on a market-based basis whether or not to operate nuclear power and whether or not to invest in new nuclear power. As I understand it, the company has carried out inspections of the rust damage and depositions contained in the substrate and on a market-based basis concluded that it is not profitable to repair these nuclear power plants and that it would be associated with too great a safety problem to push them forward without repairing them. I welcome the fact that, following the agreement that we and the Christian Democrats made, huge investments in energy in Sweden have been decided. I believe that over 60 billion have been invested in new energy. I think that both Camilla Brodin and I can be proud of that.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-565	Madam President, I would like This is something that we see as a major problem, and the problems are here and now. We have a lack of capacity, and when Swedish power networks alert us about this over and over again, it means that we will need to import electricity. Is that electricity really climate smart? Can we still have fossil-free electricity? We Christian Democrats think this is necessary. My question to Anders Ygeman is how to solve this.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-568	Madam President, I would like I am a great supporter of both a market economy and free trade. I think everyone will be richer if we have an exchange of goods and services, including electricity. As I mentioned in my opening speech, the majority of the electricity we import is hydroelectric electricity from Norway, which is very climate-smart. We also see that around the world, and especially in our neighbourhood, we are doing the same energy transition as we are doing, so we are going to support the exchange with other countries.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-571	Madam President, I would like I was a little worried when Minister Ygeman said in his opening statement that we have electricity 51 out of 52 weeks. It's the 52nd week that's important. That is why I would like to ask you a question about Ringhals 1 and 2. Even if one were prepared to turn a blind eye to the climate challenges, close one's eyes to the fact that the economic conditions for further nuclear power have improved and turn a blind eye to all alarm reports about power shortages, I wonder: When the whole base industry expresses concern and asks for an investigation about Ringhals 1 and 2, what makes it so difficult for the government to stand behind it and do an investigation?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-573	Madam President and Mr Teimouri! I just want to correct the honourable Member-- I didn't say we have electricity 51 out of 52 weeks a year. We have 52 weeks of electricity a year. Like Arman Teimouri, I am a free trade friend. We sell electricity many weeks a year, and we import electricity many weeks a year. We are net exporters 51 out of 52 weeks a year. It is the owners of nuclear power that will determine whether it is market economy-friendly to pursue nuclear power. I am convinced that they refine those calculations time and again. Arman Teimouri and everyone else are free to hold this debate with the owners of Swedish nuclear power.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-575	Madam President, I would like The state is also the owner of Vattenfall, as far as I know. But it's also about seeing the climate challenges, seeing that we have improved economic conditions to drive further nuclear power and see all alarm reports about the power shortage. If the whole base industry asks for an investigation into Ringhals 1 and 2 to be carried out, wouldn't it be nice if you actually did that investigation?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-578	Madam President, I would like All citizens and parties are free to invest in Swedish nuclear power themselves. The base industry is also free to invest itself in Swedish nuclear power if it is considered economically viable for the future. So far, I have noted that neither liberals nor representatives of the basic industry have invested a single krona in Swedish nuclear power while investing 60 billion in Swedish wind power. Perhaps it is time to draw some conclusions from this too.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-580	Madam President, I would like We have a problem, and we have challenges in Sweden in the coming years. When companies like Pågen cannot grow as they want and want, it is a problem for Malmö and Sweden. If we have a discussion about the electricity effect enough for buses, metro, hospitals and new properties, at least I am not satisfied with the development. It takes political leadership to get to grips with it. The response of the Moderates is a cogeneration package, in which we opt out of the government's harmful taxes on cogeneration. It is a review of electricity grid regulation to hold back charges, but at the same time to ensure that the necessary electricity grid investments are made so that new hospitals, community properties and other things can be switched on. This concerns me, what the government has done with discussions on electricity grids and, in particular, local production when it is now closed down, margins are falling and there are extremely worrying signals. Then it is gratifying that Anders Ygeman says he wants to do a prestigious, independent analysis of government policy. The next question that arises, Madam President, is this: if these problems are and are coming, is the government prepared to back down, for example, on the proposals for cogeneration? That is the natural consequence of this. If it is an undesirable outcome and one cannot, for example, get the hundreds of wanted new electric buses in Stockholm and Gothenburg, the government must, if it is serious about this, be able to say honourable and responsible here in the speaker's chair: Yes, we are prepared to back away from what has gone wrong in the previous policy.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-586	Madam President, I would like I have now answered Lars Helmered's question three times. But Lars Helmered hasn't answered my question, so I'll ask it again: Why do the Moderates want to spend SEK 27 billion in increased costs on electricity consumers without a single requirement for the electricity grid to be expanded?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-588	Madam President, I would like I think that the Government should take some responsibility for its own decisions on cogeneration and the consequences it will have in our major cities instead of standing here and making things up. What the Moderates have said is that the reasonable thing now is that we are holding back electricity grid charges and in an analysis is looking at whether the necessary new electricity grids will come into place. I think that is the responsibility in this, in the situation where companies like Pågen and others are denied further expansion.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-590	Madam President, I would like Does Lars Helmered mean that Ulf Kristersson is lying? He's saying he's demanding that the government withdraw this. Then it'll be these billions. Then there won't be these requirements for power grid expansion. Is Lars Helmered speaking for the Moderates, or is Ulf Kristersson wrong?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-591	Madam President, I would like Both I and Ulf Kristersson have therefore voted in favour of the amendment to the Electricity Act, and both I and Ulf Kristersson have talked about that it is reasonable that they are now doing a prestigious review of the electricity grid regulation. If it is the case that connection in the capital and elsewhere is denied, it must simply be ensured that the necessary network investments will take place so that social property, buses and other things come into place and, at the same time, keep the development of electricity grids in a way that has not taken place historically. That is the clear message. We take responsibility. The question is what the government does.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-594	Madam President, I would like I've heard two things from the Moderates. We have talked about the taxation of cogeneration and the regulation of electricity networks. None of this helps many of the cities that have problems. In Uppsala, it does not solve anything. Electricity network regulation is in the long term. On Gotland it does not solve anything at all. Ulf Kristersson opened in the election movement to expand the third Gotland cable. I have heard nothing from the Moderates since the election movement, either in it or in other matters.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-596	Madam President, I would like I would like to describe what we want to do, for example, with regard to hydroelectric power, in order to secure confidence in the system. It is about protecting and developing it. Together with the Center Party, we have ideas about new renewable energy and making better use of the technology. We have opened up for an unconditional discussion about the continued operation of Ringhals 1 and 2 and what it can mean for Sweden as a whole. We have supported any increase in funding for Swedish power networks for the extension of the core network. I can continue the list. For us, this is a comprehensive package for people to have secure access to electricity and energy.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-597	Madam President, I would like There is not so much hydropower on Gotland, and Ringhals is not there either. In Uppsala there are capacity problems, just like on Gotland. We will not solve this with more electricity generation anywhere else. How will the Moderates deal with these problems, which have existed long before and are completely independent of the proposals that the Moderates are now making?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-599	Madam President, I would like If you are to talk about responsibility, this is still one thing where you have to analyse what the effects are. That is why we have come to the conclusion that we believe that the regulation of electricity networks should be reviewed. That is why we are against what the government, but also the Center Party, has been involved in doing in terms of cogeneration, which we think is directly harmful. Ulf Kristersson has, as Rickard Nordin rightly points out, opened for a third Gotland cable. We believe that consideration must be given not only to strict economics but also to security policy and accessibility. We are happy to continue this discussion.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-601	Madam President and Lars Helmered. Lars Helmered has mentioned several times that this issue of cogeneration would be the biggest problem. I agree that there were rapid fluctuations. But if you ignore cogeneration, which of course has a bearing on these places: are market forces, which have actually existed in terms of network expansion?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-602	Madam President, I would like I think that is a reasonable and wise question from Birger Lahti. No, I do not think that electricity grid regulation has worked if we look at a longer number of years in Sweden. There have been appeals and twitchy pricing and therefore a kind of political uncertainty, which has affected customers in the form of not least very large increases in electricity grid charges. This is, of course, undesirable, and I hope that we can get away from it. Power heat is a local problem that the government has created now and is therefore topical in the debate.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-604	Madam President, I would like That could also be solved. In fact, if you pay a price, they will run on the fast they are paying their emissions. Another question: In southern Sweden we would have ready investment money for offshore wind power, but the defence says no. What is Moderates' view that the defence has had such an impact on the Swedish electricity supply problem? Instead, half of Sweden is a training field for NATO.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-606	Madam President, I would like We believe that we should not only practise with NATO, but also become a member of the organisation. It is important that we safeguard society's defence and security needs. But I am absolutely convinced that this must, of course, be and can be combined with such things as energy production, both at sea and on land. What I also think is important, Madam President, is that we go from words to deeds and deal with some of the problems surrounding, for example, cogeneration. This is what has been brought up to date.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-608	Madam President, I would like It has become more and more clear that the Moderates are willing to support nuclear power with tax funds. But I still have to say that I was surprised and almost uneasy when I realized that the Moderates with tax money want to go in and support the remaining fossil burning in Sweden. So you want to support coal power. Why do the Moderates want to do this?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-609	Madam President, I would like What the Moderates and I want is for hospitals to be able to connect to the power grid. We want to be able to build new rental housing and connect new industries. Now that there is a very strained situation and discussion, I think the responsible and honorable thing we can do is try to get to grips with this and analyse what political reforms are to be implemented. That is why we are landing in the view that what the government is doing in the field of cogeneration is inappropriate. This reduces local production and puts more people at risk of getting a response similar to what Pågen in Malmö got.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-611	Madam President, I would like The government's green tax exchange has so far been a complete success. Fossil burning – coal power – is now being shut down in Sweden and replaced with bio-fired power. This is an incredible success. Värtaverket is a good example of this. You put down what is coal-fired and instead save one of the boilers as back-up power with bio-fire. This is what the Moderates now want to push against. It wants to continue to subsidise coal burning in Sweden. I find it incomprehensible.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-612	Madam President, I would like This success means that carbon dioxide emissions in Sweden have increased when the Green Party has ruled in recent years. Gothenburg Energi has carried out an analysis showing that what Lorentz Tovatt is now talking about would lead to increased greenhouse gas emissions in the Gothenburg case and in the case of Rya CHP plants. So there are probably a little different perceptions of the effects of this. But for us, this is not dogmatism. We want to see growth, development and connection of electric buses, hospitals and new properties. Then we must look at what needs to be done in terms of electricity grids and other areas.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-614	Madam President, I would like It is time to reflect on what has been said in this House today. I think it has been a rather good debate. It has shown you where you stand from one side and the other. The Center Party has once again shown that it has come to be very right when it has jumped to the socialist bloc – or now the liberal socialist bloc. It has been repeated here that we have so much energy in Sweden. We export 51 weeks out of 52. I haven't looked in the last year, but I'm sure that's true. The reason for this is that political failure has pushed a lot of new capacity into the network, which the market has never really asked for. These are weather-dependent energies such as wind and solar power, which do not solve the challenges we face in terms of our energy situation. So now you have to turn off Ringhals 1 and 2, you say. Do we have a surplus then? So we can do 51 weeks out of 52? The obvious answer is no. We have a very strained situation ahead of us. I therefore find it regrettable that the government's side allows itself to be led by populism – by children in this case – as Ygeman demonstrated this week. I would just like to conclude by saying that when you send a child in front of you in the debate, you do not do it to provoke debate but to kill the debate. You do it so that the rest of us, who don't think like this child, can be silenced. That is the whole purpose of this, and I think it is appallingly bad.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-618	Madam President and Mr Fransson! You said in your speech that political failure has made it possible for us to export. Would it be political failure if you went in with subsidised money to keep Ringhals 1 and 2 alive?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-619	Madam President, I would like You can turn this around and turn it around. We always have new terms and the new language to be used all the time. One claims that a particular type of energy has certain environmental costs and takes the right to define what these costs are and says that it is much more expensive than another type of energy. One reason why nuclear power is so expensive is that there are a lot of additional demands on nuclear power that may be reasonable. Anyway, there's an explicit goal... oh, did the speaking time end so fast?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-621	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the attempt to answer from Josef Fransson! What you might have come to be doing is actually removing a cost of nuclear power of about 5 billion through the thermal power tax. Nuclear power has been able to survive, I think. Yet you are pushing for politics to ensure that you continue with Ringhals 1. It's political infinity. Can't Josef Fransson agree with that?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-622	Madam President, I would like The political difficulty is that you have pushed a lot of power into the system in terms of wind power and more that has never been requested, which creates imbalance on the net and a lot of problems in a system that actually worked. This has been done at the same time as energy agreements and other specifics say that nuclear power does not have a future but is to be phased out. So it's no wonder the market doesn't want to invest? You don't feel faith in the future. That is regrettable, I can only say.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-623	Madam President, I would like Painting a problem picture is easy. Presenting proposals is obviously more difficult. I am still waiting for answers from the other parties: what do you want to do? Are there any proposals other than subsidising coal power or raising electricity grid charges? Actually, I haven't heard a single suggestion. What I have perhaps heard is that when the arguments fail, the question of nuclear power is again addressed, but that does not solve the problem. The Center Party focuses on the solutions. We want to build a third Gotland cable. Just drive. We want a green trail in the environmental processes and permit processes, so that the environmentally good things are simply given priority and are easier to build. We want to enable user flexibility, which allows us to remove the hours with the highest load by controlling things a little smarter. This is simple. It is simple technology that already exists and is used, for example in Uppsala. Then we must also ensure that this business model works. Then we cannot have a flat electricity tax that makes it expensive even when the electricity is cheap and it does not get expensive enough when the electricity should be much more expensive. We also want to give network companies the opportunity to procure power locally over a long period of time. There are power plants that can run on renewables, but it is not profitable to do so directly against the electricity price at all times. But if you can then get paid from the network company for the benefits and benefits of the network you do, there are opportunities. We also want to secure the green-gas principle. It is quite unreasonable for power plants to be shut down because the mass balance principle, i.e. that they guarantee the same amount of biogas that they use, is not accepted by Swedish power networks. This has been denied. There are solutions. The question is whether the political will of other parties exists to do something, or whether they prefer to hold up conflict levels and paint problem images because it is easier. It's up to you to prove it!
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-630	Madam President, I would like Sweden has challenges and problems with electricity capacity in the coming years. It is unclear whether the effect in all situations is enough for bakeries, electric buses, hospitals and all that it can be. The Centre Party is a support party for the government and is responsible for the cost that now affects power and district heating. Experts question much of that policy. I would like to ask Rickard Nordin: is the Center Party, now that we are beginning to see the effect of this, prepared to reconsider the tax proposals on cogeneration?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-632	Madam President, I would like For the Center Party, it is obvious that the fossil power teams should bear their costs. Then you can't subsidise them. It is actually a fundamental principle, not least in the green tax exchange that Lars Helmered and the Moderates also cherish. As far as we are concerned, we shall of course look at measures, but then it is above all that facilitates the very things I mentioned. This can be done in the short term, and then you can deal with the problem. It is not continuing to subsidise coal power that is the solution in the future.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-634	Madam President, I would like Many companies are now expressing concern. The pile has been used as an example several times here, but it is only one of many. The Center Party usually talks about entrepreneurship. Many companies are now witnessing challenges and problems in the coming years, given electricity capacity problems and challenges. The Centre Party, as a support party, nevertheless contributes to aggravating the situation and to the closure of local combined heat and power production. Then I wonder: What is Rickard Nordin's response to Pågen and other companies who feel a concern that they cannot expand and employ?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-636	Madam President, I would like If we are talking about companies, we can mention Ngenic in Uppsala, which already today controls heat pumps and removes the effect from the peak load hour, which means that you can get more production. They could expand. There is a business opportunity here if we politically – and this is the message to the others – take our responsibility and solve the problem. This can be solved if we ensure that business models exist and remove the regulatory barriers that exist. That is the way forward, not to subsidise coal power.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-638	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good debate! Just as some have mentioned, differences in where you feel you are seeing the problem are evident. It is quite clear to the Left that harmful fossil subsidies are not something we can do in the long run. It is only a pity that those who possess this have not realized in time that this will happen. Perhaps this could have been signaled earlier. Then I come to this with networks and responsibilities, which would have expanded the networks. What has happened in society after the network owners have acquired a monopoly is that consumers have paid a huge price for a monopoly situation in which network owners have been able to pick out two-digit profit distributions on an annual basis. They have raised prices and said that they are reinvestments. This has also been started; I see at home how to constantly expand and renew the electricity grids, but still they have always had the same profit distribution to the owners. So are the facts. On the Left side, we believe that society should see that such socially important functions should be socially owned. Then I'm talking about regional networks. Now I hope that there will be a regulation that will be reasonably good and that you cannot pump out all the profits. This is a social function that is needed for everyone, whether it is heavy industry or small homeowners. Yet you have a system where you have picked out as much profit as you want. I hope that part will eventually work out. I hope, of course, that it will be community-owned, but it is perhaps far away.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-643	Madam President, I would like We are five parties that, three years ago, took a hand on an energy agreement that protects, among other things, the competitiveness of cogeneration. It was the intentions of that agreement. Now the government's policy, supported by the January parties, is going in the very opposite direction. We Christian Democrats believe that the energy agreement must now be filled with issues that are both urgent and topical. Here we have together with the Moderates made recordings. It has been a month, and these questions are still hanging in the air because we have not received any feedback. One of these nine points we have proposed, apart from the one I mentioned earlier regarding the role of cogeneration, is that an impact study is needed to ensure that the design of the electricity market contributes to a more stable electricity system but also to ensure an adequate expansion of the electricity network. However, the Government presents proposals that make the situation worse rather than solving the situation: a waste incineration tax on cogeneration without an environmental impact and a shock increase in the CO2 and energy tax on cogeneration that is already part of the EU ETS, with the consequence that Malmö, Stockholm and Gothenburg lose some of their local electricity production – this in order to reduce climate emissions. Instead of pushing for the forced closure of these few important power plants, the government could have waited for replacement facilities with renewable fuel to be put in place, as all companies have made such decisions. Madam President, I would like The problem with the capacity shortage we see is that the transmission between north and south is extremely problematic and that it will be acute if Ringhals 1 and 2 is closed. In addition, if cogeneration is closed, the capacity shortage will be a real challenge, especially in our big cities.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-648	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask Camilla Brodin about the power grids. We, from the government, have taken steps to increase investments in the electricity grids and reduce the costs for electricity consumers. Ulf Kristersson, the Moderate Leader, was out the day before yesterday and said that this must be withdrawn. There would then be a greater increase in electricity grid consumers, and we would have a lower rate of roll-out of electricity grids. Are the Christian Democrats behind the Moderates on this issue?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-649	Madam President, I would like The government is asking if we Christian Democrats are behind the Moderates. We need to review electricity grid regulation in order to ensure the long-term balance between reasonable charges for customers and incentives for investments in maintenance, deployment, innovation and smart solutions. We need to see the overall problem here. We have not discussed whether we are currently behind the Moderates on this issue.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-650	Madam President, I would like Camilla Brodin! This is a proposal that the government put forward a long time ago and which is now to become a reality. It is therefore interesting to know whether the Christian Democrats are behind this proposal, which lowers the costs for electricity consumers around Sweden. This may mean a few thousand dollars a month for a regular homeowner. Or do you, like Ulf Kristersson, want to tear up this proposal? This is of course an interesting message for the homeowners around Sweden.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-651	Madam President, I would like We want to review this so that we get a sustainable balance between customers and companies. Above all, it is about us in Sweden being able to secure the security of supply that the Swedish Parliament has decided on. Here we have a common responsibility to actually look at the whole and not stand and waffle too much.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-652	Madam President, I would like The energy issue and the climate issue – it must be added – are two major challenges. I would like to say again: we are not behind the energy agreement, but we have welcomed an energy agreement 2.0 if the ambition level is to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and tackle the climate challenge in real terms. A version 2.0 will require that you take a holistic approach and not think in drainpipes. For example, in the transport sector, we must have a much broader perspective if we are to be able to electrify society. In order for Sweden to become a fossil-free welfare country with reduced climate emissions and for us to reach the target, more electrification is required. And if we are to develop as an industrial nation through, for example, the transport sector, we must also have an electricity grid that can be trusted. We must also be able to create growth by allowing companies to expand and to be sure that there is security of supply. Madam President, I would like The energy issue and the climate issue are probably two of the greatest challenges of our time. I hope once again that we will have a good dialogue after this debate between all the parties in this House. We have a difficult task to solve, but I think we can solve this together.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-655	Madam President, I would like You want a holistic view of the electricity grids, Arman Teimouri. We have talked a lot about the core network here, where we tenfold the investments. At the same time, we see how e.g. Eon, which is the electricity grid owner in Malmö, has increased electricity grid prices by 27.4% without any increase in electricity grid expansion. That is why I wonder if you are behind Ulf Kristersson, who wants to tear up this proposal and instead put the costs on electricity grid consumers.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-656	I would remind you that Members are not supposed to set each other up but to speak through the President.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-657	Madam President, I would like Government! The Swedish electricity market is regulated in a way that also governs price development over a long period of time, but it gives a twitchiness and makes it difficult to plan. Investment will be needed. There must also be a long-term plan for electricity grid companies. But it does not give a basically monopolistic market the freedom not to take responsibility.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-658	Madam President, I would like Should I interpret Arman Teimouri as saying that the Liberals are not behind Ulf Kristersson's proposal to enable electricity grid companies to significantly increase their withdrawals from consumers without imposing additional electricity grid expansion requirements?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-659	Madam President, I would like Government! The simple answer to that question is that electricity grid companies must make the necessary investments. But it is a long-term policy that must be the basis for this.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-660	Madam President, I would like Let me just say briefly that what the Government said in the previous speech is not entirely in line with the truth. But now I'm going to turn to the question. Bageriet Pågen in Malmö wants to expand but cannot expand. This is what Pågen's CEO said when he was told that one will not be able to expand in a few years' time: Power deficiency is something that has been heard of in developing countries. L is a support party for the government and is responsible for the tax packages. Are the Liberals prepared to back down when the consequences are now seen for Pågen and other companies?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-663	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. Let me be clear. Climate and environmental issues must be the focus. There, all parties have a great responsibility. We'll never get away from that. But I can say this: if we see that these changes are damaging growth, security and the long-term transformation of the energy system, we are prepared to have new discussions with the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Green Party, which are all part of the January Agreement. But fossil is not the future.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-664	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that it is a question of fossil freedom and of taking this step-by-step and over time and balancing it, so that there is competitiveness and opportunities. Nevertheless, I hope that the Liberals will take the impression of the rather serious situation that exists and that we can continue to have a dialogue on other energy policy issues in the future to take responsibility for the country.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-665	Madam President, I would like I didn't hear a question. I can only agree that we need to think about growth, security and the long-term transformation of the energy system.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-666	Madam President, I would like Member Teimouri! You said we had to ensure a competitive electricity supply. Will it be a competitive electricity supply if we signal the need to invest in nuclear energy, when we know that nuclear electricity in new nuclear power costs three times as much as land-based wind energy?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-667	Madam President, I would like Member Lahti! We have had that discussion many times here. I stand by the fact that it is the market that must decide what it is prepared to invest in. That's the simple and short answer to your question, isn't it?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-668	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Teimouri, for your answer. I am pleased because I have somehow had the impression that in the debate on nuclear power you are in favour of some kind of liberal planning economy. We know it won't work out. The industry says it is unprofitable to invest in this.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-669	Madam President, I would like Member Lahti! It must be remembered that there are climate challenges. We know that nuclear power is highlighted as an important factor in solving it. It is an improved economic environment for the further development of nuclear power. There are also reports of power shortages. We must take this into account when we talk about the nuclear issue.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-670	Madam President, I would like The statistics from last year worry. Of all sectors, electricity and district heat increased their emissions most and were therefore the worst in the class. Their emissions increased by 10 per cent. This is serious in a climate crisis that we are in right now. If I can quickly go back a little to the big picture, we can see that over eight years with the alliance government, the green tax exchange stopped. The OECD and the EU have pointed out that the tax stopped changing over those years. During the last parliamentary term, we withdrew this. We raised taxes by tens of billions and made exchanges for reductions in other taxes. And now we are further raising the level of ambition through the January agreement. The green tax shift has so far been a thunder success. In Stockholm, we now see coal-fired thermal power plants closing down, and in exchange, one of the boilers is kept for backup power in order to be able to burn with biofuels. We see a general trend in fossil power production being discontinued. This is exactly what we want. Given the extreme climate situation in which we are in and which will only get worse, it is incredibly remarkable that some of the right parties are now going out and fighting with beaks and claws for coal power to continue to be subsidised. It is therefore a question of phasing out a fossil subsidy, but it is now being fought with beaks and claws to preserve it. This is remarkable and cannot be defended, but renewable is, of course, the future.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-675	Madam President, I would like Today there is an electric bus in Gothenburg and one in Stockholm, but there are plans to expand them to hundreds. At the same time, we have problems with capacity shortages in Stockholm and Gothenburg. It is unclear whether the electricity effect is sufficient for new electric buses, which would provide a significant environmental and climate benefit. The situation is getting worse right now by what the Green Party is doing. This applies partly to electricity grids but in particular to local electricity production. Madam President, I would like I wonder: Is the Green Party prepared to reconsider its energy decisions so that they do not stop a desired electric bus development?
i-VWVm1qUFpNghDtVuJPe7uf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question! In my first speech, I stood and messed up a number of things that I think are needed to meet the challenge of network capacity. It is about flexibility, it is about more investments in the networks in general and it is about once we expand electrification for transport, for example, we should do so in a smart way so that they can be used for storage in the system. None of this seems to be of interest to the Moderates; instead, they focus on subsidising fossil power.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-679	Madam President, I would like Gothenburg Energi has analysed Lorentz Tovatts and the Government's cogeneration proposal, and they note that this will lead to an increase in greenhouse gas emissions of 42 000 tonnes in Gothenburg. Others may assess the reasonableness of this. I think it is reasonable that we move towards fossil freedom, but also that we have electricity grids and production so that we can connect electric buses, hospitals, new properties and other things. With the Green Party's policy, a desired electric bus development is at risk, and I wonder: Are you prepared to think again if the consequences are so negative?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-681	Madam President, I would like Those calculations are actually on track. What is happening is what I mentioned in my speech. Getting this to mean that the closure of coal power would increase emissions is a baroque way of looking at it. As I was talking about, we are net exporters of electricity today for almost the whole year, and then it is strong to believe that fossil power that is being shut down would be replaced by something that is produced far down the continent. This mathematics is a remarkable way of counting.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-683	Madam President, I would like Today, 98 percent of our electricity production is free of fossil fuels. This system and its function of supplying current, which is the very purpose of the energy system, are now slowly breaking down. I would say that the S-MP's energy policy is like partying on SMS loans. You can turn out nice and good and invite the whole table to champagne, but in the end the crash will come inexorably. My question is: is it not time to start listening to the consultation bodies?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-686	Madam President, I would like Another thing that is also to party on SMS loans is to crack more every day on the living conditions of future generations. This is the consequence of SD's climate denial. Time and again they ride into battle for fossil subsidies and in different ways fuel the fossil dependence that Sweden is inside. This if anything is partying on SMS loans.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-687	Madam President, I would like I can relate to what people have said here before and what is also clearly stated in our perhaps heaviest consultation bodies, namely the energy companies in Sweden. We run the risk of having the very opposite consequence that we have to import all the more and also make a lot of investments. If these works are shut down as quickly as the government now wants to push forward, we will inexorably crash.
i-D3iVhmBLrgGtxMXa5zpgkt	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Josef Fransson! When you're going to listen to referrals, you have to do it without being naive. The energy companies represent cogeneration in Sweden, and they are the ones affected by the phasing out of subsidies. Of course they will argue that it is not good, but if you look at the results of it you can see that it is good. Fossil power generation is discontinued and replaced by bio-based production. This is exactly what we want.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-689	Madam President, I would like What Lorentz Tovatt forgot to mention in his speech was that during the Alliance emissions dropped. During the Red Green Government, emissions have increased. I heard many fine things about potential solutions, but concrete proposals on how to get there were weak. So let me help you a little. When it comes to shortening permit granting processes, we need to adjust the relevant legislation, such as the Environmental Code and the Species Protection Regulation, so that climates have a higher impact. Is the Green Party prepared to make such changes?
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-691	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Rickard Nordin! The answer is yes. In the January agreement, which our two parties have signed, there are wordings that the Climate Act should permeate all relevant legislation. I use this revenue because it is reasonable that a new process or investment that is going to and that is good for the climate should take precedence. Then there's the online concession investigation, which is coming now. I want to take a closer look at it and see what we can do in the future.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-694	Madam President, I would like It was gratifying new news from the Green Party that it is prepared to review the kind of legislation that has been stubbornly opposed otherwise. For example, eagles have been tried to protect when we wanted to expand wind turbines and other things. In that case, it would have been better, for example, to fence the whole of Sweden's railways, if we now really want to protect those kinds of birds. I welcome the fact that the Green Party is prepared to draw this lance not only in Parliament's Chamber where it sounds nice but also in the negotiations versus the government.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-696	Madam President and Rickard Nordin! As far as eagles are concerned, it is a tricky issue, not least because it is linked to the EU directive on species and habitats. Basically, I think it is reasonable to look at the entire population rather than look at individuals. That's where we agree, I think. As far as the second thing that Rickard Nordin talked about is concerned, we have the wording that all relevant legislation should be reviewed. I'm really excited about starting that job.
i-fab55bf4c79c96f9-698	Madam President, I would like Sweden is growing and will grow. We have large surpluses of electricity. The challenge is to ensure that these surpluses also benefit the growing industry and the green transition. We must therefore ensure that the network is built faster. We're going to halve the extension time for important grids. We have tenfold doubled the investment in the electricity grids. However, we do not intend to grant the monopoly of electricity to be released at the expense of electricity consumers. We intend to continue to demand strong drivers for the expansion of the electricity grid. We should not allow the electricity grid monopolies to impose penalties on Sweden's homeowners and energy consumers. I welcome the fact that there has essentially been a positive tone in this debate, and I look forward to continued cooperation.
