i-38e7214a742945da-0	Mr President, I would like to Honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament! Dear Hearers! Around Europe the right wing extremis spreads but and its movements out. In several countries, forces with anti-democratic agendas have reached all the way to government power. But in Sweden we stand up for people's equal value. We'll go another way. Now we start a historic cooperation. Sweden receives a government made up of the Social Democrats and the Green Party, which cooperates on the budget and the direction of politics in several areas with the Center Party and the Liberals. Now we can finally get a new hold of ourselves. Social problems cannot wait. The jobs are going to be more. Climate emissions shall be reduced. Welfare should be improved and integration more effective. Security will increase and crime will be combated. Sweden is in need of major reforms. We can now deal with them, together across old bloc borders. Mr President, I would like to This morning hundreds of thousands of Swedes stepped out of bed, took their cup of coffee, made breakfast, and reminded the children of the gym bag. Perhaps there was a struggle in the hall about the outer garments before everyone got away, the children to preschool and school and the adults to work. And the vast majority are too busy to listen to today's government declaration. It is common people's toil that builds Sweden. The Swedish economy is strong. The budget deficit has turned into surplus, the employment rate is the highest in over 25 years and the public debt is at the lowest level since the 1970s. Now we have room for manoeuvre. Now we have great opportunities. When things are going well for Sweden, it should come to everyone's attention. Last parliamentary term, historic efforts were made on welfare. Over the next four years, resources will be strengthened by a further five billion annually. Pensions are raised for those who have worked for a full working life at low wages. They have fought for Sweden's prosperity. Now they'll get the respect they deserve. Employers' contributions are reduced. It will be cheaper for entrepreneurs to do their first job. The first steps towards a family week are taken. The country's parents will have more time with their children. Future generations will have access to clean air, healthy seas and a living nature. Climate change will permeate politics. Our society should be strong – and our development sustainable. Everyone who can work is going to work. There should be order in the economy. The agreement on the fiscal framework is solid. Full alertness must be provided for a reversal of the economic cycle. A new major tax reform is being implemented. This is how we will promote jobs and competitiveness, smooth out gaps and increase equality. This is how we will ensure prosperity and contribute to achieving climate and environmental objectives. The last remaining pensioner's tax will be abolished. The birth tax and the extra tax on generational shifts are removed. The RUT deduction is broadened. Swedish industry and Swedish companies, small and large, should have good opportunities to grow and hire more. The problem of skills deportation needs to be solved. Sweden is a leading research nation, and we will defend that position. Free research must be protected while research policy responds to global and national societal challenges. The National Innovation Council's work continues. An export initiative for more jobs throughout the country is being carried out. Green bonds are being tested. Collaboration, innovation and climate change make Swedish companies world-leading. Together, we are equipping for the future. Together we build Sweden strong. The government's goal is not just for the whole country to live. The whole country will grow. The national plan to invest SEK 700 billion in roads and railways is being pursued. New high-speed rail lines will be completed, and the railways in northern Sweden will be expanded. More and more long-distance freight transport will be moved from truck to train and shipping.
i-38e7214a742945da-22	Broadband and mobile services are being expanded throughout the country, and more service offices are being opened. It will be possible to live, live and work throughout the country. Sweden should stick together. Rarely do you feel as free as when you put the key in the door of your first apartment. Housing construction should be made faster, cheaper and more sustainable. Mobility in the housing market will increase. The rental model is reformed with, among other things, free renting in new construction. The quality and location of the apartments have a greater impact on the rental. Investment support for the construction of rental apartments is concentrated, streamlined and directed towards rental apartments throughout the country. The interest on the amount of the deferral on removal shall be abolished. The penalties for selling black contracts are tightened, and the purchases are criminalised. Reform reform will remove the housing shortage. Swedish forest industry should be sustainable and growing. Private ownership of the forest must be protected. Landowners shall receive fair financial compensation in the event of restrictions on ownership and use rights. It will be much easier to build near the beach in unexploited rural areas. At the same time, beach protection and public access rights are protected in exploited areas. A powerful peasant package is being developed to strengthen Swedish food production. The fossil dependency of agriculture should be reduced. Consumers' demand for organic food is to be met and food waste is to be countered. Mr President, I would like to Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. There's no time for doubt. The necessary adjustment is extensive and much work remains to be done. But we are at the forefront – for electric trucks and public transport, for increased construction in wood, for steel without coal and for new textiles from recycled clothing. The climate policy framework is solid. All relevant legislation is reviewed. The climate targets shall be met. The Energy Agreement shall be implemented. Investing in your own renewable energy production should be simple and profitable. Sweden will push for a climate law at EU level. Reform efforts to implement the Paris Agreement are intensified. The 1, 5-degree target must be reached. A powerful green tax shift is being made. Taxes are being increased on environmentally damaging activities and reduced on work and entrepreneurship. The major climate impact of aviation will be reduced. The climate requirements for aviation are tightening up. It will be possible to charge and refuel fossil-free throughout the country. Climate bonuses and charges on passenger cars are strengthened and simplified. No new petrol or diesel cars will be sold after 2030. This is how we reduce the major climate emissions from the transport sector. The exploration and re-exploitation of coal, oil and fossil gas is prohibited. A major effort is being started to bind back some of the previous emissions. Climate investment programmes and the urban environment agreements promote local investments for global sustainability, and they will be developed and streamlined. Children should be able to walk and cycle safely to school, and outdoor life should be promoted. Sweden will develop the resource-efficient, circular and bio-based economy. Swedish consumers should be able to make sustainable and chemical-proof choices. More steps are taken to make it easier to recycle and reuse. A minimum level of service for household waste is introduced. Guarantee requirements are introduced for more products and the spread of microplastics is combated. Biodiversity shall be protected. Ecosystem services shall be protected. The appropriations for the protection of a valuable nature will be increased. The marine environment should be improved. Eutrophication, use of environmental toxins and release of drug residues shall be minimised. Fishing shall be sustainable. Control is tightened to stop illegal fishing, and in protected areas bottom trawling shall be prohibited. Groundwater levels shall be ensured and access to drinking water protected. 20 years ago, the Riksdag made a decisive decision: To the next generation we will hand over a society where the major environmental problems are solved. The environmental objectives system must now be developed and new milestones developed. Magic in Swedish old forest, larchan's drill and the buzz of honey bees – it is our task to preserve Swedish nature for our children and grandchildren. Mr President, I would like to Language and work are the way into society. During its term of office, a comprehensive reform work will be carried out to improve integration. The start-up jobs negotiated by the social partners for new arrivals and the long-term unemployed are to be introduced. The model should be able to be used by temporary agencies and also by companies without collective agreements. An initial deduction is introduced to remove the employer's contribution for young people without upper secondary education and new arrivals for the first two years. A year of integration, the new Swedish start, is introduced with intensive vocational Swedish education, internships, vocational training, compulsory social orientation and one-year mentorship programmes. Women and men should have equal opportunities to support themselves and control their lives. A special focus is placed on women's establishment. The law on own living is limited to reduce segregation. An approved test in Swedish and basic social sciences becomes a requirement for citizenship. We increase our ambitions and efforts to ensure that everyone learns Swedish, through language duty, strengthened SFI, language preschool and language teaching for parents on parental leave. More career positions for teachers are being set up in exclusion areas. People are growing with high demands and great opportunities. We live in a modern knowledge society. Everyone must be able to build on their skills and rebuild their skills. The Swedish labour market must be characterised by security and flexibility. Labour law should be adapted to the current labour market, while maintaining a fundamental balance between the parties. Companies are given greater opportunity to change, and individuals are protected against arbitrary redundancies. If the social partners do not agree, a legislative amendment will be implemented that will clearly extend the exceptions to the rules of rotation. At the same time, there is an increased right to skills development, and a better balance is created in the protection of employees with different conditions of employment. Employment services are fundamentally reformed. Independent actors shall contribute to matching and equipping job seekers. Unemployment insurance is being developed so that more people qualify for compensation and incentives to apply for and train for new jobs are being increased. At the same time, the study funding system is made more generous for older people who want to further educate or retrain. State aid for short-term work is being developed. Development time is introduced to enable skills development and entrepreneurship. The knowledge boost will be extended, and access to higher education and distance learning will be increased throughout the country. This is how everyone can be equipped for a rapidly changing labour market. Thanks to great efforts by principals, teachers and pupils, school results in Sweden are improving. In Södertälje, cross-block quality work has improved school results for the eighth year in a row. At Hovsjöskolan, upper secondary school qualifications have doubled. At the same time, a major reform effort remains to re-establish our country as a leading knowledge nation. All students must have an honest chance, regardless of their background and place of residence. The focus on knowledge will be strengthened, and the requirements for quality will be tightened up in all schools. The Commission's proposal for greater equivalence in schools is being implemented. State aid is being increased. A decision base that can create the conditions for government heads of the school is developed. A stoppage is introduced for independent primary and secondary schools with a professional focus. Teacher education is reformed, training requirements are tightened and admission requirements are increased. It will be easier for academics to choose the teaching profession. Resources are added to hire more teaching assistants. Teachers will receive the support they need to ensure fair and equal grades throughout the country. Schools that want to be able to introduce grades from grade 4. Subject grades should be introduced in upper secondary school. Gradual inflation shall be combated. A national plan for study and safety at school is drawn up. Mobile bans are imposed. Bullying is being vigorously combated. Students who have threatened or subjected others to violence should be able to be more easily switched off or relocated. No student should be left behind, and anyone who wants to be able to run ahead. The reading-write-count guarantee shall be implemented. Proposals are made to enable a ten-year primary school. Children's groups in preschool and recreation centres should be reduced. It will be easier to get special support in smaller teaching groups. Support for children with neuropsychiatric disabilities should be increased. Resource schools will be developed and special schools strengthened. The grant guarantee and the priority hourly plan are introduced so that the student who is at risk of not becoming eligible for upper secondary school can receive more education in the subjects where it is needed. Increased study pace should be offered to students who can reach the knowledge goals more quickly. Secondary school pupils should be able to study upper secondary school courses, and upper secondary school students should be able to take courses at university level. Let there be no doubt as to where we are going. The Swedish school should be our society's greatest pride. Mr President, I would like to When a new life is coming, when something hurts or feels wrong, when the pain never releases – it is then, in the most fragile moments of life, that Swedish healthcare should be there for your safety. No one should have to wait too long for treatment or surgery. A general plan is developed for shorter queues, along with an updated queue billion. A special focus should be placed on women's ill-health. New investments are being made in ambulance, cancer and maternity care. A broad primary care reform is being implemented. It will be more attractive for doctors to work in primary care and easier to run care in rural areas. The sick person should know what the care plan looks like and who to call. The system of patient contracts is being developed. The right to permanent medical contact is secured. A penalty or penalty shall be imposed on principals who do not comply with the health guarantee. Sickness insurance shall provide financial security in the event of illness. It should be easy to return to work after recovery. Rehabilitation and occupational health care are crucial. Conditions and working environment should be improved for employees in healthcare and care so that more young people want to go there and work there, knowing that the job is not only important but also developing. The professional role of nurses is strengthened with a licence or a protected professional title. More people should be able to study as a specialist nurse with their wages. Psychiatry is expanding. Mental ill health must be broken. A new form of care for patients with mild mental illness is being investigated. A goal of queue-free children and youth psychiatry is introduced. Children living in sheltered housing need better support. Care for the elderly should be of high quality. A permanent care contact in the home care service is introduced throughout the country. Employees in home care should receive free work clothes. Job opportunities, a good life and meaningful leisure time are improved for all with different forms of disability. The right to self-care, breathing and probe feeding assistance shall be restored. The definition of normal parental responsibility is narrowed. The right to assistance for supervisory needs is strengthened. The question of the headship of personal assistance is being investigated. The person entitled to personal assistance shall receive it. Mr President, I would like to 100 years ago, the Riksdag took the first of two decisions giving women and men equal voting rights. The best way to pay tribute to those who took the lead in the fight for democracy is to continue their work in a new age. Democracy in Sweden is strong, but we can never take it for granted. It must be constantly defended, generation by generation, term of office. Democratic institutions shall be protected. The independence of courts and public services will be strengthened and the resilience of the electoral system to manipulation improved. Media support will create better conditions for independent journalism throughout the country. We are saving the reform that has meant free entrance into state museums. The cultural school should be developed, and all children should have the opportunity to take part of it. Astrid Lindgren once said that children create miracles when they read. She was right. To this end, access to school libraries with trained librarians should be increased. The reading delegation's proposals will be implemented. We will have more miracles in Sweden! The sports movement and associations should be supported and encouraged. The financial security of artists and creators of culture will be improved. We are a feminist government. The Equality Agency will remain. The rights of LGBTQ persons are strengthened. The Discrimination Act is tightened. The indigenous peoples are strengthening their self-determination and influence. An independent human rights institution is set up. Work on the National Plan against Racism continues. Anti-terrorist hate crimes against minorities are vigorously combated. Wherever anti-Semitism is, and however it is expressed, it should be highlighted and combated. In 2020, Sweden will host a new international conference on the remembrance of the Holocaust, and Swedish young people will be given the opportunity to visit the sites in Europe. A new museum is established to preserve and pass on the memory of the Holocaust. We will never forget, we have promised each other. Sweden never forgets. Mr President, I would like to Crime must be fought with the full force of society. Now, record numbers of women and men are looking for police training. They should be supported by substantial resources, coordinated authorities and more effective legislation. 10,000 more are to be hired by the police by 2024. The police profession should be attractive. The protection of police officers and other blue-light personnel shall be strengthened. The penalty should be tightened for crimes linked to criminal settlements. New legislation on data storage will be submitted to Parliament in the near future. The police are given the right to decide on camera surveillance in a public place. The minimum penalty for legal abuse is greatly increased. A system of Crown Witnesses is being investigated. Unregistered mobile phone prepaid cards are prohibited. The punishment is tightened for those who hand over drugs to others. Serious crimes committed by young people under the age of 15 must always be investigated by the police. Efforts to combat tax evasion and tax evasion will be stepped up. Measures are being taken against the use of false identity documents and against organised crime against our welfare systems. Those arrested and convicted must be given effective judgments that can lead to life change. The punishment should be tightened up for those who recruit young people for crime. Sentenced persons who do not participate in care and treatment should have the time in prison extended. Crime prevention starts in the fight against poverty and segregation. In order for more people to leave crime behind, a national exit programme is introduced, and in order to attract fewer, more field workers and district police are employed. We are hard on both the crimes and the causes of the crimes. Society is always stronger than the gangs. The new consent law allows for more conviction of rape. Now the work continues to realise a culture of consent. More resources will be provided for prevention, and sex and cohabitation education will be modernised. The minimum penalty for rape is raised. Aggravated sexual harassment is introduced as a new criminal offence. The limitation periods are extended and removed completely for sexual offences against children. More receptions are being set up for sex offenders. The government is increasing efforts to combat violence in close relationships. This concerns both the urgent support for victims of violence and their children and the prevention and efforts to change their behaviour. To stand up for your life and your love even though you know that your family refuses to accept it requires great courage. And speaking about it before the world to bring about change for others requires even greater courage. That courage had Fadime 中ahindal. For that she was murdered just 17 years ago today. This is how Fadime ended his speech in Parliament a few months before the murder.It should be a matter of course to have both your family and the life you wish for. Unfortunately, it's not obvious to a lot of girls. I hope you don't turn your back on them. That you don't close your eyes to them. ..................................................... I wish I could say that the culture of honour has been pushed back, but that is not the case. It remains, and it still threatens people's freedom and security. The stakes have not been enough. We have to do more. We'll do more. We will tighten the penalties, increase knowledge and strengthen the work in school and social services. Non-Swedish citizens convicted of honour-related crimes and hate crimes should be more easily expelled. At the same time, those exposed to honour-related crime will be given enhanced protection against rejection. Efforts should be more able to be given to young people without parental consent in case of suspicion of honour crimes. Society should act directly in case of suspicion that people will be sexually stifled or married against their will. Mr President, I would like to The fight against terrorism and violent extremism must be uncompromising. Legislation is tightening up. Participation in terrorist organisations is criminalised. The security police are given the opportunity to read encrypted traffic. Border controls at internal borders remain in place as long as necessary. Regrettably, terrorism and extremism are only part of the complex security threat facing all open and democratic societies. The work continues to create a modern total defence. The national security strategy shall be implemented on the basis of a broad safety analysis. A national centre is set up to increase information and cyber security. A new authority is established to strengthen the psychological defence against, among other things, influence operations. Civil preparedness is being prepared to better respond to climate-related crises such as health threats, fires, droughts and floods. Vigilance is increasing towards foreign attempts to acquire sensitive infrastructure. Sweden maintains its security policy line. The defence grants are gradually increased to strengthen Sweden's military capabilities, and collaborations with other countries and organisations are deepened. The military freedom of alliance serves our country well. Sweden shall not seek membership of NATO. At the same time, we are safeguarding the transatlantic link. We develop defence cooperation, especially with Finland, and deepen cooperation to increase security around the Baltic Sea. If a disaster or attack affects another country in the Nordic countries or the EU, Sweden should not be passive. And we expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. Membership of the European Union is a foundation for Sweden's national, European and global work. Sweden is working for an effective Union, a citizens' Europe that creates jobs and increases the security of its citizens, a Europe that faces the climate threat and improves its competitiveness in the global economy. Sweden, together with the rest of the EU, will continue to work to ensure that Britain's planned exit from the Union takes place in an orderly manner. Preparedness is available to deal with different scenarios. EU countries that violate the Union's values and the rule of law must face tangible consequences. History teaches us what can happen if we turn a blind eye to violations of democratic freedoms and rights. Our mission to the UN Security Council is completed, but Sweden's international work for peace and democracy continues. A number of important challenges need to be addressed: the conflicts in Syria and Yemen pose serious security threats with disastrous humanitarian consequences. Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and intervention in Ukraine are clear violations of international law. The Rohingy people of Myanmar are being subjected to crimes against humanity. Violence must stop and those responsible must be brought to justice. The Korean Peninsula must be free of nuclear weapons. A long-term peace between Israel and Palestine calls for a two-state solution. Sweden is actively promoting the necessary reform of the UN. International law must be protected. The role of women in peace processes should be strengthened. Peace and democracy shall be promoted through work on nuclear non-proliferation, disarmament and disarmament, mediation and dialogue. Trust between peoples and countries is a powerful tool against war and conflict. That is how common security is created. Asylum law must be protected in Sweden, in Europe and in the world. More countries need to take greater responsibility. Swedish refugee reception must be sustainable in the long term. The Temporary Migration Act is extended for two years and, at the same time, the right to family reunification as well as the right to refugee protection is granted to those in need of protection. The government is working to establish a common EU asylum system that distributes the reception of refugees fairly and proportionately. Asylum seekers shall receive a legally secure reception with short waiting periods. Those who have protection reasons should quickly become part of society, and those who do not have such reasons should quickly return. The most important tool for halting the refugee disaster is development and conflict resolution. Feminist foreign policy is developing. The rights of women and minorities worldwide will be strengthened. Gender equality, sexual and reproductive health and rights are obvious elements of a global development policy. In a time of trade war, Sweden will defend free trade and stand up for fair conditions. Investment in Sweden and international trade agreements must protect the environment, health and employees' rights. The Swedish Global Deal initiative brings together nearly 100 governments, companies and organisations. Now the OECD is taking over as a host organisation. Sweden will continue to promote social dialogue for better working conditions and higher productivity. The government will continue Sweden's comprehensive development cooperation and maintain aid equivalent to 1 per cent of GDP. Assistance will be further focused on democratic efforts. We stand by the high ambitions of climate finance. Our leadership for globally sustainable seas continues. When other countries reduce their efforts for global sustainability, Sweden increases them. We will be at the forefront of Agenda 2030. Mr President, I would like to The term of office began last autumn. It's been winter. But today, on January 21, a new government begins to work. We have less time than usual, but together and in broad cooperation we can and do all the more. It is a new time, a challenging time and a decisive time. The parliamentary cooperation that begins today is historic.
i-38e7214a742945da-111	Mr President, I would like to Let me report the ministers who, together with me, form part of the government. Mr President, I would like to Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Committee is Hans Dahlgren. Minister of State and Head of the Ministry of Justice is Morgan Johansson. Minister of Justice in the Ministry of Justice is also Mikael Damberg. Minister of State and Head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is Margot Wallström. Minister of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also Peter Eriksson and Ann Linde. Prime Minister and Head of the Ministry of Defence is Peter Hultqvist. Minister in and Head of the Ministry of Social Affairs is Lena Hallengren. Minister of Social Affairs is Annika Strandhäll. Minister in and Head of the Ministry of Finance is Magdalena Andersson. Minister of Finance is also Per Bolund and Ardalan Shekarabi. Minister in and Head of the Ministry of Education is Anna Ekström. Minister of Education is also Matilda Ernkrans. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister in and Head of the Ministry of the Environment is Isabella Lövin. Minister of State and Head of the Ministry of Enterprise is Ibrahim Baylan. Minister of State in the Ministry of Enterprise is Jennie Nilsson. Prime Minister and Head of the Ministry of Culture is Amanda Lind. Minister in and Head of the Ministry of Labour is Ylva Johansson. Minister at the Ministry of Labour is also Åsa Lindhagen. Minister of State in and Head of the Ministry of Infrastructure is Tomas Eneroth. Minister at the Ministry of Infrastructure is also Anders Ygeman. The Parliament will be informed in the usual way of the changes in the ministry.
i-38e7214a742945da-119	I would like to express my thanks to former Presidents Birgitta Dahl, Björn von Sydow and Per Westerberg, who are present in the Chamber today. I am also pleased to see that many representatives of the diplomatic corps are in the gallery here today.
