i-0e800997b6adb036-4	Madam President, I would like Mattias Karlsson has asked the Minister for Finance what is the reason why the Minister and the Government have chosen to refrain from appointing a Transparency Council for SCB and how the Minister intends to act in the future on this issue. The responsibility in the government is so shared that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Thank you for the question about SCB's Transparency Council. The Government is responsible for the governance of public authorities and the choice of management form. Several circumstances have influenced the process of appointing new members of the SCB Transparency Council. Among other things, the 2018 elections and the subsequent process of formation of the government were awaited. Although no members have been appointed to the Transparency Council, the situation should not be interpreted as a lack of external transparency in the Authority or a lack of arrangements for the Head of Authority to seek advice from external parties. The Authority's instructions provide for the provision of advice for official statistics to assist the Authority in carrying out certain tasks, such as promoting cooperation between the statistical authorities. In addition, the Government has decided that there should be a Scientific Council attached to the Authority with the task of assisting the Authority in scientific questions on methodology and quality in the statistics. In addition, the Authority itself has decided to set up 12 user councils to create, among other things, a system of organised user contacts. The user councils provide SCB with knowledge of new and changing statistical needs and advice to support priorities around specific statistical areas. A total of 124 members currently participate in these councils. Members have their background in relevant users such as the Government Office, other authorities, workers' and employers' organisations, professional organisations and the research community. Having said that, however, I have no intention but to ensure that Members are appointed a Transparency Council to the Authority as soon as possible.
i-0e800997b6adb036-11	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for its answer. The SCB instruction, the regulation with instructions for the Central Statistical Office (SCB), regulates under the heading Following the expiry of the term of office of the previous Transparency Council of SCB on 31 August 2016, just over two years before the elections, no new Transparency Council has been appointed. It is remarkable that the government argues that it has chosen not to appoint a council on the grounds that it was close to the elections. A government cannot stop making decisions when it is over half a term of office left. This in itself raises further questions. My question remains: for what reason has the government chosen not to appoint a Transparency Council, when there are more than two years left for the general elections?
i-0e800997b6adb036-14	Madam President, I would like I have no answer but that the question needs to be resolved. I stress that a Transparency Council should be appointed. Government education was slow, and I think it has its reasons why not all questions were settled when they were due. It is important to stress that this has not meant that there has been no transparency in SCB's activities. The discussion that has preceded this autumn, which is important in terms of how the statistics are improved and the errors that have occurred, is something that both the Government and the Riksdag have commented on. We need to work on these issues in a good way. Of course, I am not satisfied that there are no members of the Transparency Council. At the same time, however, there have been a number of audits by the European Agency, which has a good insight into the work and has had good results, and by the Swedish Data Protection Authority. I share the view that there is a need for a transparency council, and parliamentary transparency is important.
i-0e800997b6adb036-18	Madam President, I would like I know that the SCB in the councils and bodies it appoints has managed to fill the seats, but the government has not managed to set up a Transparency Council in three and a half years, which is contrary to the instructions given to it. A council of transparency in a state authority has an extremely important role to play, including meeting the need for democratic transparency and civic influence. Previous evaluations of the Council authorities have often shown that the Transparency Council is an appreciated support to the Head of the Authority. The role of the Transparency Council is to exercise transparency and to provide the Head of Authority with support and advice in the work he carries out. Against this background, it is an incredible pity that one has chosen to ignore the need for a transparency council in SCB. The expiry of an appointment for a Transparency Council at a certain time cannot be a secret for the government, which means that the entire preparation process for the creation of a Transparency Council should have started long before the appointment expired. Now it is perhaps three and a half to four years since the processing process should have started. At that point, the government said it wanted to wait for a general election. The choice was made. The government formation process was delayed. But after that, almost a year has passed without the government having succeeded in preparing a new Transparency Council. I do not want to put words in the mouth of the Government, but could it be that there are shortcomings in the organisation of preparation? Is there too little resources to work on recruitment issues for the Transparency Councils, or is there a lack of administrative procedures?
i-0e800997b6adb036-23	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that the issue is being addressed, and I think that the government and government administration need to work constantly to develop their work and practices. It is also good that a Member of Parliament reviews the government in this way. It's necessary. However, I would really like to emphasise that there have been no problems with the transparency of SCB's work, but that transparency exists in different ways. With regard to the issue of parliamentary transparency and how it should look, it has been under discussion for some time about what practice should be like and what procedures should exist. I think that is a question that we might need to have a review of. This applies to all transparency councils and is a discussion we will have to come back to. In this case, however, I do not think there should be any doubt whatsoever that we should appoint a Transparency Council as soon as possible.
i-0e800997b6adb036-25	Madam President, I would like I believe that a distinction must be made between the expert councils and bodies designated by the authority itself and the transparency councils. A Transparency Council has another democratic role to play for a Head of Government. In its initial reply, the Government addressed the numerical scandal which erupted in the Authority in the autumn. In the storm in which the head of authority and the authority were then, I think it would have been extremely valuable for the head of authority to have a transparency council as a sounding board to deal with this. A Transparency Council could also have been involved in the risk assessment of the internal control plan in order to ensure that this does not affect an authority such as the SCB, which is so extremely important for all the decisions we take in this House. I now hope – and I have good hopes after the response from the Government – that the Government will indeed ensure that the Transparency Council is given more attention than her predecessors in the post office did. I hope that, despite the fact that there are only two and a half years left before the next election, a decision is taken to appoint a Transparency Council for SCB.
i-0e800997b6adb036-29	Madam President, I would like I would first like to say that it may be useful to bear in mind that there are 124 different members in various councils today who are transparent in SCB and who work together with SCB's management. At the same time, however, I would like to stress, as I said in my opening speech, that the parliamentary part is very important and that it complements what is about transparency. A good debate on SCB is needed. We will appoint a Transparency Council as soon as possible.
i-0e800997b6adb036-31	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me how I intend to act so that Swedish hunters and sportsmen can continue to practice and participate in certain sporting forms. She has also asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that hunters and sportsmen are not adversely affected by the new arms legislation's definition of warehouses. Since the government presented the proposal to regulate detachable weapons warehouses, there have been a number of misconceptions in the debate. Marléne Lund Kopparklint's questions seem to be based on a couple of these misconceptions. The proposal allows a person who is authorised or entitled to hold a particular gun for firing to hold one or more removable warehouses for the weapon. You can have it as long as the magazines are intended for the same purpose as the gun license or the right to hold the weapon. In practice, therefore, the proposal does not concern our responsible hunters and sportsmen. Of course, they have a permit for their firearms and will continue to be able to train with their weapons and use the magazines intended for hunting and target shooting without having to apply for a permit for the magazines. The Arms Act will not contain an explicit definition of the concept of detachable warehouses. However, determining whether the Arms Act is applicable or not will be whether the warehouse is complete and functioning. It is hard to believe that legal gun holders would not know what a complete and functioning weapons warehouse is. They normally don't have to think about this because they don't need permission when buying magazines adapted to their weapons. The proposal is mainly aimed at those warehouses that are located in criminal environments, where the holders are not authorised to carry weapons. Guns or automatic weapons are most commonly used in shootings in such environments. It will be clear to the police and other authorities who will apply the law which warehouses are used for such weapons and whether they are regulated. The Police Authority believes that regulating all weapons warehouses in a clear way would improve the police's ability to stop the illegal use of firearms in Sweden. We need to listen to the police and give them a better chance of seizing all weapons warehouses found in criminal environments. In this way improve the ability to stop shootings before they occur.
i-0e800997b6adb036-37	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that the government's hunt for law-abiding hunters and sportsmen must stop. To be honest, I cannot understand why the government is pursuing this hunt at all and hope that I can get clarification answers to a number of questions. The government refers to this proposal to combat illegal weapons in the criminal world. I cannot see how it is to be done, Madam President. If we were to disarm all law-abiding hunters and sportsmen throughout Sweden tomorrow, it would not affect gang crime in the least. The introduction of a licence requirement for the possession of detachable weapons warehouses affects hunters, sportsmen and collectors in a way that cannot be considered reasonable or legally secure. In addition to these problems, you can add the problems that this entails for the Swedish Armed Forces, given the enormous amount of magazines the Swedish Armed Forces practises in forests and land. My first question: if during an exercise a soldier drops a magazine in the forest, is the exercise to be interrupted and a search after the magazine begins? Madam President, I would like Despite the massive and constructive criticism of this proposal, the government has consistently chosen to present the proposal. That this would be justified by the desire to access gang criminals and other criminals falls on their own absurdity. Then there are other ways to act. There is no need to take measures that meet the law - abiding gun holders with precision. The Minister should have knowledge that hunters and sportsmen do not commit serious violent crimes with their weapons. It is also a bit ugly of Minister Damberg to say that I and many with me would have misunderstood this whole proposal, when it seems rather that it is the Minister himself who has done so. The Government does not seem to have understood that if you enter into a law that the regulation is carried out in accordance with the purpose of the gun license, it is explicit and only legal gun owners you want to regulate. Criminals don't have a gun license to begin with. Madam President, I would like If you look more closely at the purpose, you can see that this is exactly where the shoe chafes because the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency regulates in its regulations on hunting agents what size you can have on your magazine when hunting with a semi-automatic hunting weapon. The arms regulation allows the right to use hunting weapons even for practice or competition, but that is not the purpose for which you have a licence. The government thus clearly shows that it specifically wants to prevent hunters from training and competing with their hunting cages. There's no misunderstanding!
i-0e800997b6adb036-46	The Government also says that it is obvious to a legal gun owner what a warehouse is, even though the government has given no closer definition than this: ..................................................... This includes for a legal gun owner, for example, the box or container in which the ammunition is stored when you buy it. It includes the container you store your ammunition in. It includes so-called ammo cans, i.e. larger containers intended to store the ammunition in. It includes standard storage cases of sheet metal intended for ammunition bands, but ironically, not the ammunition bands themselves used for machine guns. My third question: Is it really the government's intention to permit all containers intended to contain ammunition?
i-0e800997b6adb036-49	Madam President, I would like This is a difficult debate because the interpeller obviously misunderstands virtually every piece of legislation and makes false claims. The police authority has submitted two letters to the government saying that regulating all weapons warehouses in Sweden would facilitate their efforts to access gang criminals who shoot. Last night we had a shooting in Sweden. These are serious problems. If the police then say that by regulating all weapons warehouses to a greater extent they can access the gang criminals and can prevent the weapons being used in killing shootings in Sweden, I think we should listen to the police and act, and that is what we are doing. I would like to ask: Is it the intention of the Moderates to vote against the police's request for regulation of weapons warehouses in Sweden? That is quite an important message for this House. Then there are a number of misunderstandings, and we need to help resolve them. The first is that, of course, if you have a permit to be a sportsman or a hunter, you have the right to use one or more magazines. You don't have to apply for permission for this, and you also have to practice with the magazines you need. It's very clear. When it comes to the definition, it is assumed that the magazine is complete and functional. That's pretty reasonable, isn't it? If a magazine is complete and functional, it's a weapons warehouse. Then we don't hunt hunters and sportsmen. That's not the point. The problem is that we have a lot of criminals who today have weapons warehouses. Because it's completely unregulated, you can own as many weapons warehouses as you like. Madam President, I would like I had planned to bring the gun magazine here, but I still thought it was a bit inappropriate to wave it in the Chamber. I'm not gonna have a gun magazine. Criminals should not have weapons warehouses. But hunters and sportsmen must have weapons warehouses for the weapons for which they are authorized. That is not the issue, and I think it is important to be clear about it. This is a question that is on the agenda now because we have shootings and blasts. Since this is not regulated by law today, criminals who use and store weapons warehouses – often at home, where the police cannot always seize them and sometimes have to return weapons warehouses to criminals – cannot be convicted of anything. With the proposed legislation, a gang-criminal can be sentenced to up to six months in prison, in the same way as in the case of ammunition. That is the purpose of the legislation. I very much hope that the Swedish Parliament will listen to the police and agree with the proposal that the police have recommended, because it will have an effect in combating gang criminals who today can handle and store weapons warehouses in their homes, for example. Otherwise, it's hard for the police to get to them.
i-0e800997b6adb036-59	Madam President, I would like I am standing here today to ask questions about how this proposal strikes at sportsmen and hunters. I will pass on this proposal to my colleagues in the Committee on Justice. The Government says that the law will not contain an explicit definition of the concept of detachable magazine. This opens for a rubber paragraph-like interpretation mode. It can already be seen today that the Police Authority is experiencing considerable difficulties in managing arms licensing properly, because there are a large number of administrative judgments that nullify the Politiska omslutning. Yet the police authorities continue to refuse licences on exactly the same weapon. There are therefore indications that such a unclear legislative proposal as this would create additional difficulties for the Police Authority. My fourth question will then be: how much resources will the government strengthen the Police Authority in order for them to manage this bill? Madam President, I would like Of course, illegal weapons will disappear from the hands of criminals. We all agree on that. However, there are two different issues that should be dealt with accordingly. Swedish hunters and sportsmen should not be punished because the government has for several years failed to fight the senseless gang crime. The argument that all illegal weapons have once been legal is widely used by opponents of arms. However, there are very few legal weapons of civilian origin used in crimes or, for that matter, stolen from law-abiding hunters, sportsmen, arms dealers or collectors. More specifically, it is about one to two weapons with a Swedish gun license per year that are used for crimes. In total, there are about 1.8 million legally owned weapons in the country. These one to two legal weapons will thus be placed against the hundreds of shootings, blasting robberies and other crimes committed in Sweden every year. The largest proportion of weapons that end up with criminals are those smuggled in from the Balkans. Madam President, I would like Now the government has submitted a new proposal to the Riksdag. It came this week. We Moderates will of course go through it carefully in the further handling of the Riksdag. Our clear starting point is that gang crime should be removed from our society, but at the same time we believe that it is not done by making life more difficult for law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. Therefore, if you want to regulate the possession of weapons storage facilities, you should think carefully about what you are doing so that the legal and legitimate use of weapons does not meet. It is highly unlikely that criminality can be accessed by prohibiting a person who has a licence for weapons with the purpose of hunting and shooting from using the magazine from the hunting weapon in the sporting weapon or vice versa. On the other hand, it is impossible to train or compete in certain forms of competition with the hunting weapon.
i-0e800997b6adb036-66	Madam President, I would like It is very important that we are told by the Moderates that you will go through this carefully and take it seriously. That's great. I am not seeking conflict on this issue. I think it would be good if we listened together to the police and could go forward with this legislation. The point of this legislation is not, of course, to try to make it more difficult or limit for sportsmen or hunters. After all, when they have their licenses, they will have the opportunity to have as many magazines as they need for the purpose. They also have the right to practice hunting, for example. That's what we're establishing here. The fact that we currently have an unregulated arms warehouse market is that serious criminals can actually have warehouses and do not risk being punished for that, and that is a problem. Most provocative to me is that police officers tell me that they can't always seize weapons warehouses all the time, because it has to be linked very clearly in the legislation to enable them to do so. It has also become so humiliating that the police have been forced to return weapons warehouses to gross criminal individuals in Sweden. That is completely unreasonable! If criminals are found with weapons warehouses, they should risk going to jail for this, because they have no permits or licenses. That is the point of the proposal. I understand that there will be a discussion about the demarcation and what is defined and what is not. But you should know that today there are arms parts – end pieces, pipes and silencers – which are also not defined in the legal text, but we all know what a gunpipe and a silencer are. We have a knife team in which we have not defined in the legislation what a knife is, but I still do not think that the Moderates or anyone else here wants to abolish the knife law, because it may be needed to get to criminals using knives. I fully agree with the interpellant that we should not unnecessarily make it difficult for either hunters or sportsmen, but we will regulate all weapons warehouses. In the last four years we have seen that Glock pistols – they are quite common in criminal settings – used in 19 murders and 50 attempted murders. Today it is completely unregulated how Glockmagazine may be used. You can buy on as many magazines as you like, and criminals can keep them at home. They know what the law looks like, so they split the gun and the gun and keep the magazines at home. Then the police often can't do anything. Sometimes they can do so, for example, if they are close or if you can somehow tie the weapons warehouse to the weapon. Then they can be impounded. We must change this. In two letters to the government, the police have asked us to do so. Then I think we should produce legislation until next year that gives the police new opportunities to seize this stuff, so that there will be no more shootings in Sweden. I hope that there will be constructive cooperation in this and that we will also sort out some of the ambiguities that exist. The aim is not to get at hunters or sportsmen. But let us be honest: if you have a weapons warehouse that is completely different from the purpose that you have for the weapon, you can apply for a licence for it, just as you do with ammunition. Then it gets a little more complicated for the one who happens to have it. But it will hit arms dealers and collectors above all; it is they who are affected by this. We may find it sad that they are affected by it, but our parties have quite agreed that we should start regulating prepaid cards for mobile phones. Anyone who buys a prepaid card for their mobile phone should have to register it because gang criminals use prepaid cards. If you have a weapons warehouse for a purpose other than the one you use your weapon for, you can apply for it. It is a reasonable balance to make in order to get to the shootings that are actually plaguing Sweden today.
i-0e800997b6adb036-75	Madam President, I would like The Damberg Government says that this will not happen to hunters, sportsmen and collectors, although that is exactly what it will do. The Government has not previously been able to demonstrate any statistics supporting the claim that the police need this legislation on a direct matter in the Riksdag. There is already room for seizure and confiscation in the Code of Criminal Procedure and in the Code of Criminal Procedure. If a magazine is found in a criminal environment, the presumption that it will be abused will be quite large. In order to combat the current gang crime, we need strong action– we are very much in agreement on that. Such proposals have also been put forward by us Moderates. Of course we should take weapons out of the hands of criminals, but it should be done effectively. We do not need unnecessary and unclear law here. Hunting and shooting are deeply rooted in Swedish society and are part of the popular movements. For many people, hunting is a lifestyle, and it can determine the choice of place of residence. The pure sportsman engages an enormous number of people and has a traditional connection to the police, the sports movement and the total defense. That is why the hunt for law-abiding hunters and sportsmen should stop, as I have said repeatedly. Madam President, I would like I note that Minister Damberg has not answered one of my four questions during this interpellation debate, which will lead me to further questions in the future.
i-0e800997b6adb036-80	Madam President, I would like I have answered several of the questions that have been asked, but if the interpeller does not want to listen to or take on board the answers, I cannot do anything about it. We have a big problem in Sweden with shootings. The police have submitted two letters to the government asking for all weapons warehouses to be regulated in order to facilitate access to gang criminals. Then we'll do it, but we won't do it in a way that makes it more difficult for hunters or sportsmen. Therefore, this issue is dealt with in the same way as ammunition is dealt with. Hunters and sportsmen are very used to dealing with it. So we use the same logic as in the case of ammunition for sportsmen and hunters. However, I would like to be very open about the fact that I very much hope that the Moderates will do what is said in this House today: look at the proposal properly. I mean, we should listen to the police. And we shall act when the police ask for this, so that we will have legislation that can come into force as early as next year and that can have an effect in the criminal environment. The point of regulating this is, of course, to get to the criminals, who have no licences or permits to deal with weapons or, in the future, weapons warehouses. But that's not the only thing we can do. We have to do a lot more. We have strengthened customs three years in a row. Customs hires more people to check that we do not get weapons and drugs, which drive a lot of gang crime, in Sweden. We are now implementing the entire 34-point programme and cutting it off against gang crime. The police are making their major operation Rimfrost, a national special event. They then go very hard on the gang criminals, which is good. One of the most important legislations we have done in recent years concerns the serious weapons offences. Last year, 370 people were prosecuted for serious gun crimes. 970 weapons were seized. It was a very important year. Now it is important to make sure that the gang criminals are clamped down on weapons warehouses as well. The police are asking for it. I hope that we can agree on this in the Swedish Parliament.
i-0e800997b6adb036-85	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaverh has asked me whether I intend to express my support for the Iranian people's struggle for democratic and human rights. Furthermore, Amineh Kakabaveh has asked whether I intend to demand that the Iranian regime release all imprisoned activists and demonstrators who have fought for these rights, including Nasrin Sotoudeh and other women's rights activists. Finally, Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me whether I will ensure that Sweden, alone or through the UN and the EU, moves Iran to abolish the death penalty and discrimination against women and girls. I was among the first in the European Union to emphasise clearly how seriously we view the data on the high death rates of recent demonstrations in Iran. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also sent clear messages to Iran. The right to freedom of expression and the right to peaceful assembly must be respected. Unlimited access to the Internet must also be maintained. Sweden has also promoted a united EU in relation to the events in Iran in November. Sweden and the rest of the EU, in a declaration of 8 December, call on the Iranian authorities to ensure transparent and credible investigations to clarify the number of dead and arrested, and to provide a proper legal process for all those arrested. Together with the rest of the European Union, we expect all those who have committed acts of violence to be held accountable and all peaceful demonstrators held in custody to be released immediately. I have also communicated and underlined the EU's message through social media separately after it was published. Questions about the protection and respect of human rights are central to Sweden's relationship with Iran. We work continuously on these issues and highlight the importance of human rights in our political contacts with the country. This was also an important part of the meetings that I and my predecessor Margot Wallström held with Iran's Foreign Minister Javad Zarif during his visit to Sweden in August. The government clearly expressed its concern about the human rights situation in Iran. The judgment against Nasrin Sotoudeh is an example of how the Iranian regime does not respect the principles of the rule of law. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs therefore immediately raised the Sotoudeh case in Stockholm during talks with Iranian high-level representatives, including the Iranian ambassador. The case of Sotoudeh was also raised during the visit of Minister for Foreign Affairs Zarifs to Sweden. In addition to the bilateral dialogue, Sweden is also actively and continuously working through the EU and the UN to strengthen respect for human rights in Iran. This includes the application of one of the death penalty, which we condemn in all its forms. When Iran was reviewed in the UN General Review in November 2019, Sweden made recommendations to Iran to, inter alia, abolish the death penalty and take immediate action to improve the protection of human rights defenders, including those defending women's and girls' full enjoyment of human rights. Discrimination against women and girls is another example of issues that are regularly raised with Iran. A concrete outcome of our dialogue with Iran is the bilateral Memorandum of Understanding on cooperation for increased female participation from February 2017. The agreement, which is followed up by Svenska i nstitutet, covers both the labour market and social life.
i-0e800997b6adb036-93	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your detailed answer. At the end of August, the Iranian Foreign Minister met with our Foreign Minister. Human rights issues were raised. Our Foreign Minister raised the issue of women's rights, which has been systematically violated for 40 years by Islamic fundamentalism in Iran. I have no doubt that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will do so when she meets representatives of the Iranian regime – not at all. What can be noted is the ignorance and total disinterest that the Iranian regime shows for what the Swedish Government, with its representatives, represents for this regime. The Iranian Foreign Minister barely got home until further torture and killing were started. The human rights organisation Amnesty International accuses the Iranian regime of silencing anyone who might testify to the shooting of demonstrators during the protests at the end of November in Iran. Swedish Radio's correspondent Cecilia Uddén also reported how a desperate teenager fears for his life, as he witnessed pure executions of peaceful demonstrators. Cecilia Uddén is interviewing one of the demonstrators: I saw with my own eyes how they shot at us with sharp shots. I saw with my own eyes how they aimed at people's heads. I saw blood on the ground. It was shocking. I had tear gas in my lungs for days. He's 19 years old and whispered so his parents didn't hear. He is a homosexual and says: We have no rights in Iran. My right as a fag is to be executed. I could be hanged. He also tells us that he saw infiltrators who did not belong to the demonstrators set banks on fire, as demonstrated by Iran. Amnesty International has collected testimony similar to what the guy tells. Thousands of Iranians relate similar events, and according to Amnesty International, over 300 people have been killed and shot to death. Many of those in hospital are taken by the Pasdaran security forces to an unknown location, where they are subjected to torture - like methods. In the town of Ahvaz the other day, the river carried the bodies of dozens of students tortured. The regime requires parents to pay for the torture, for hangings and for the ammunition. It's terrible. I was called by some sisters, mothers and friends who knew we were going to debate today, and I promised that we would demand responsibility from the Iranian regime. We have to do it, Minister of Foreign Affairs Ann Linde! We have to make it even harder. We must commit our agreements with this torture regime to human rights requirements. I very much hope that this will continue.
i-0e800997b6adb036-100	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by congratulating Amineh Kakabaverh on the interpellation and the Foreign Minister for her clear statements on Iran in response to the protests that have erupted in the country. Iran, as we have been in it, is a country that has been governed for 40 years by a fundamentalist regime. The situation in Iran is extremely complex and cannot be kept separate from the political struggle between the major powers in the world at large, in the Middle East and in Iran's political leadership. Now the protests against social and economic injustices that are taking place around the world have also spread to Iran. Some say that the protests are about shock raising petrol prices, but that was just the drop. In Chile, Lebanon and other countries, people are tired of injustice and corruption, and even the people of Iran want and need democracy, social justice and equality – not torture, execution, sanctions and increased divides. The corrupt politicians in Iran have been stealing billions since their inception and, at the same time, pursuing a classic neoliberal policy, in which the rich have become much richer and the poor incredibly much poorer. Economic sanctions against the country have also affected the situation and led to an increase in inflation. The people of Iran have suffered from both their own government's economic policy and Western sanctions. The number of poor people in Iran has never been as high as it is now, and even the middle class has great problems. The shock - raised gas prices were what caused the anger to boil over. Iran is the country in the world that executes the most people per capita. China executes more, but we don't know how many people are executed in China. In Iran, these are both people who have committed crimes, as well as political opponents and trade union activists. Women's rights have been withdrawn for many years. For example, we see the requirement to wear hijab as a major restriction on women's rights. People are tired of this situation for a long time. The country's minority population is also severely affected. Free journalistic doesn't exist. All media in the country are linked to the regime. Everyone also knows that there is cheating at the so-called elections. Now there is a plan to boycott the upcoming elections in February. Amnesty this week updated the death toll from the demonstrations for three days in November to at least 304 people. There could be more. Thousands of people have been arrested and tortured. Like previous speakers, there are videos in the Iranian military shooting at peaceful demonstrators. Several were killed just because they happened to be near the demonstrations. Many members here in the Swedish Parliament have reacted to the violence that meets the protestors in Iran. That is why a number of Members of Parliament took a joint position, and I quote: The Iranian people have had enough of the repression of the Islamic regime! To the Iranian people we want to say: we see you and we hear you! ..................................................... Madam President, I would like It is important that the Swedish Government does not become too evasive against the Iranian regime. We shall continue to be clear and clear in our relations with the Iranian regime. It is important that we stand on the side of the Iranian people.
i-0e800997b6adb036-110	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by insuring Amineh Kakabaverh and those who have contacted her in the face of this interpellation debate that the government continues to be clear to Iranian representatives about the totally unacceptable nature of what is going on. These are, on the one hand, recent events, and, on the other hand, what has happened for several years and concerns human rights, including freedom of expression, discrimination against women, discrimination against LGBT people, discrimination against trade union leaders and trade union rights and the application of the death penalty, as both Members mentioned. Let me say something about the death penalty, which is one of the really big problems in Iran because it is so extensive. In addition, minors also receive the death penalty. The EU is a driving force in removing the death penalty, and it is well known that Sweden has always pointed out that the death penalty is inhuman, cruel and irreversible. It is a punishment that is contrary to human rights, and we condemn it in all its forms. It is clear that the number of executions in Iran has fallen by over 50%. This is due to a change in drug legislation, so it is not really the case. But I'd still like to mention it. In addition to the death penalty, torture is used, something that both Members have also mentioned. It's very alarming. For example, trade union representatives, in addition to those already mentioned, have been subjected to torture in captivity. When I and the Prime Minister and a delegation visited Iran, we took up a long list of union representatives who are imprisoned. I note that most of these have now been released. After all, I am convinced that international pressure can be applied. The EU has been sanctioning Iran for human rights since 2011. These are restrictive measures in the form of the freezing of funds and economic resources as well as travel restrictions. These human rights sanctions were last extended in April. It concerns persons responsible for serious human rights violations in Iran. Sweden is part of the core group in Geneva, which each year presents resolutions to the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Iran. The mandate was last extended on 22 March. We are also active in the UN, including through negotiations on an annual resolution on the human rights situation in Iran. In November, Iran was re-examined by the UN Universal Review Mechanism, and this time Sweden made recommendations to Iran that the death penalty must be abolished, that the Special Rapporteur for the MR in Iran must have full access and that human rights defenders should be protected. It is a question of not forgetting the freedom of expression, association and assembly, because it is also something that must be respected. This is mentioned in the report by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Iran, the latest version of which we presented a few days ago.
i-0e800997b6adb036-119	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. As I said earlier, I have no doubt that people are committed and want to raise human rights when you meet representatives of Iran, but that is not enough. I have been a Member of this House for eleven years, and during that time I and many other Members from different parties have raised this. I've known for 40 years that this has been going on. Iran totally ignores the criticism. If we do not take further measures and strategies against the regime, it will continue with unabated violations of human rights. Amnesty reports that the 17 mothers whose minors are in prison have received the following reply from representatives of the regime: So it was mothers of 12-year-olds and many others under 18 who were arrested. A lot has been killed. We also heard on Swedish Radio how the mayor of one of these cities said they had killed hundreds. He said it was something important they did and something they were simply proud of. This is the regime we are dealing with. I believe that the trade agreement that Sweden has with Iran can be made conditional. For example, people are hung from cranes – it is worse than in the Middle Ages – and we could actually order all Swedish or European companies not to sell to Iran or import from there. If we can't stand up for this, it's hypocritical; we're just talking, but nothing is happening in the real world. Can the Foreign Minister say, for example, that we are calling for the release of all the thousands of demonstrators who have been arrested? Can she not say that those who have committed these crimes should be brought to justice – in fact, before international law? Iran murders journalists, young people, students, Kurds, socialists, human rights activists and labour activists. They're the ones who're being murdered today. Most people say it has to do with drugs. As soon as it comes to Kurds, Balucher or Arabs in southern Iran, they are said to be drug addicts or have sold drugs, but most often it is about political activism. The regime does not want it to be included in the statistics that are established internationally every year. There are Witnesses; many parents and relatives testify to this. That's my question. Would the Foreign Minister demand from Iran that Nasrin Sotoudeh, Ahmadreza Djalali and the other thousands of people be released – all workers' activists and women fighting for their basic human rights and freedoms? Otherwise, other measures can simply be taken. The dialogue between Sweden and Iran, as well as the EU and Iran, has been completely ineffective and other measures must be taken. I want an answer.
i-0e800997b6adb036-124	Madam President, I would like Sweden is doing a great job in raising human rights, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs talks about. I believe that Sweden has an important role to play in the political situation around Iran. We see how Iran is part of the Great Powers' game and a very clear part of the Middle East's regional power struggle. Here in Parliament, we recently decided to allow the government to join Instex, the index that is part of the attempt to stick to the Nuclear Technology Agreement and on the part of Europe to trade with Iran and not be blocked by US sanctions. I think it is a step that can help in the work of creating good relationships. The second is about Sweden's Presidency of the IAEA, the nuclear organisation, where we really have a central role to play. I hope that the government will use the opportunities it has to put the best pressure on Iran to do as much as possible on human rights. The Tehran regime will never be nice, but we can at least try to put so much pressure on what we can only make a difference to the Iranian people. That is what I want to send with the Foreign Minister – that we should stand on the Iranian people's side at all times. We should not close our eyes and not forget to lift the crimes committed by the Iranian regime, and we should put as much pressure on Iran as possible.
i-0e800997b6adb036-127	Madam President, I would like I note that the government and I share the same view of developments in Iran as both Amineh Kakabaverh and Håkan Svenneling. With regard to recent protests, the government calls for all those who have committed acts of violence to be held accountable for this – no impunity – and for all peaceful demonstrators to be released immediately. We also demand, for example, the release of Nasrin Sotoudeh; we constantly demand the release of a number of named persons. So the answer to Amineh Amineh's question is: Yes, we demand that these people be released. It is, of course, a rather reform-friendly regime by Iranian standards. Improving the situation may take a very long time, for there are so strong conservative forces in the country – both inside and outside the government – who are trying to counteract any little progress that is made over time. But it is better that it is a regime that is somewhat more reform-friendly than that it is an even more conservative regime. At least this regime is prepared to talk to international interlocutors. The principles of the rule of law are not respected, as both Members have mentioned. Persons are detained without even being informed of what they are accused of, and people are in custody without any trial. As has already been said, we want as broad a dialogue as possible. For we can see that it works from time to time – we demand release, and there will be release. Without any dialogue, this would not be possible. Håkan Svenneling brings up Instex, and it is precisely about the nuclear technology agreement – the one called JCPOA. It is about the question of Iran getting nuclear weapons and thus playing a more destructive role in the Middle East. The only way to get Iran to agree not to develop nuclear weapons was for sanctions on the economy to be lifted, in order for the population to be better off. Now that the United States has withdrawn, this has not happened. Iran has therefore begun to withdraw from complying with the rules applicable to JCPOA. An example — or an attempt — is using Instex, which is a kind of barter. It has not been so successful so far. The aim of this is that we should nevertheless try some kind of economic development to get Iran back into the JCPOA so that they do not develop nuclear weapons, because an Iran with nuclear weapons will be much worse than the Iran we see now. I do not believe – and I have repeated this many times in this House – that trade itself is something that counteracts demands, dialogue and harsh criticism. On the contrary, it enables direct dialogue with those in power who can change the situation.
i-0e800997b6adb036-133	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for wanting to continue to follow this and continue to demand responsibility and the release of all political prisoners and of the demonstrators who have been arrested in recent weeks. It is clear that dialogue is important. That should be the optimal method of influencing. The problem is that Iran's interests are economic. Iran is not interested in dialogue. The nuclear programme is only on Iran's terms. If you trade with, duck for and waltze with Iran, they will follow the rules – otherwise not. That's the way it is with them. It was possible to have an agreement on that. Then we can also have an agreement on human rights, for example, and say that we in Sweden, which is a humane country with a feminist foreign policy, demand this. Then we can say that we want a dialogue with Iran but that we also want Iran to listen to us. Otherwise, it won't be possible. The most honest Minister for Foreign Affairs was Lena Hjelm-Wallén-Wallén. She was the only one who said that it is useless to have a dialogue with this regime – it is not possible. We can see that, too. Iran's current regime is the same regime that has been for 40 years. They want to be open abroad; they are executioners in the interior. That's it. That is why I want us to continue, and that is why I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs wants to conduct this dialogue. This debate will continue. As long as repression and repression persist and as long as human rights are violated, this dialogue and this debate must continue. Finally, I would like to wish the President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, all the staff, the staff of the Parliament administration and all the followers a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-0e800997b6adb036-140	Madam President, I would like I would like to say a few things about the Members' speeches. It took ten years to negotiate JCPOA. It was the only way to get Iran to stop on its way to becoming a nuclear state. They followed the agreement all the way until the United States left it; then they stopped following the agreement. So one cannot say that it has no effect, but, on the contrary, it had an effect. Nor do I think that all the trade union activists who have been released because we and certainly other countries have demanded their release – name for name – says that it is ineffective. They would probably still be in prison if there had been no international pressure to release them. I therefore argue that we should have dialogue and make precisely the kind of demands that we are making. It is also very important that we systematically point to the right of women and girls in Iran. I think this is particularly bad, both when it comes to everyday life – Håkan Svenneling raised this issue specifically – and when it comes to having a systematic subordination of women and girls in Iran that is totally unacceptable. With our feminist foreign policy, we do not shy away from these issues even when it comes to regimes that do not take this seriously at all. I would like to thank the interpellation and wish the interpeller and Member Svenneling Merry Christmas and Happy New Year.
i-0e800997b6adb036-147	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me how I intend to act to pause the update of the Association Agreement with Chile in view of the violence of the Chilean Government against the people of Chile. First of all, I would like to emphasise that the Government is closely following developments in Chile. It is clear that the demonstrations, including the response of the government and the authorities to them, have shaken Chilean society fundamentally. Chile now needs to find a way forward to address the discontent behind the protests and to deal with the widespread violence and allegations of human rights violations. The Swedish Government therefore welcomes the broad political agreement between government and opposition parties regarding, among other things, the development of a new constitution and the fact that Chile's independent judiciary is now investigating allegations of human rights violations. The Government considers that it is in the EU's economic and political strategic interest to conclude cooperation agreements with third parties. The government therefore does not intend to act to pause negotiations on a modernised EU-Chile Association Agreement. I will answer this interpellation by explaining why. Chile is Sweden's most important trading partner per capita in Latin America. Sweden and Chile have excellent bilateral relations and strong inter-folk ties. Since 2003, the EU has had an association agreement with Chile – the first of its kind in South America. The agreement has worked well and has contributed to strengthening the political dialogue and trade relations between the EU and Chile. At the same time, it should be stressed that the Association Agreement is not just a trade agreement. It consists of both a political and a free trade component, which provides the opportunity for broad cooperation. The political component includes regular political dialogue and exchange of experience on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. However, the current agreement has become outdated over time. The Government therefore welcomes the fact that the EU and Chile have started negotiations on the modernisation of the agreement in order, among other things, to bring about clearer wordings on sustainability, gender equality and anti-corruption, as well as consideration of e-commerce and data flows. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a tradition of keeping its doors open for constructive dialogue. Trade, together with political dialogue and cooperation, is an important tool for promoting respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Sweden will work towards the conclusion of more broad association agreements between the EU and third parties and their use for these purposes as well. The EU directive for negotiations with Chile clearly states that the agreement should be based on respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights. In addition, the Parties shall be given the opportunity to unilaterally terminate all or part of the Agreement if these principles are violated by the other Party. In addition, the Directives provide for an independent sustainability analysis of the economic, social and environmental consequences of the free trade component of the Agreement to be developed in parallel with the negotiations. This work includes broad consultations with stakeholders, including civil society. To conclude, I would therefore like to emphasise that human rights, democracy and the rule of law are fundamental elements in the negotiations for a modernised association agreement with Chile and that the new agreement is expected to have clearer wording in more of the government's priorities, such as sustainability and gender equality. I share Lorena Delgado Vara's view that the EU association agreement – both the agreement in place and the negotiations on the new agreement – should be used as a tool to promote democracy and human rights and economic, social and environmental sustainable development. However, the government does not consider that a pause in negotiations with Chile would be beneficial.
i-0e800997b6adb036-158	Madam President, I would like Chile is on day 63 of the popular protests, which continue from north to south, and repression continues. It is enough to go into the various social media to get pictures of it. The UN presented a report on 13 December. It presented figures of over 28 000 arrested, many of them illegally arrested and arrested. There are reports of torture, sexual violence against protestors and death. The number of protestors who have lost sight is also an exceptional figure; over 350 have lost sight. And all these numbers are increasing. In total, the UN presents 21 points that Chile should address in relation to human rights violations. The Chilean Government replies that they want to verify the facts, because they believe that the figures are not correct. Unfortunately, I have not been informed that the government has even called the ambassador to express Sweden's weak position. But it is clear that when you listen to the Foreign Minister's reply here, which is basically the same as a month ago, you realise that there is no answer. It is still the same: we wait and wait. I wonder what it takes for a government to act. Foreign Minister Linde points to the broad political agreement between the government and the opposition parties, the so-called peace agreement. But the Minister forgets that the peace agreement is both undemocratic and non-inclusive and that it is faltering. Several parties in the opposition have left the agreement. Unidad Social, an umbrella organisation for all trade union movements and environmental, feminist, indigenous and student organisations, has said no to the agreement and is now camping outside the Chilean Parliament to draw attention to this. 226 municipalities in Chile have held referendums in which support for a democratic, popular constitutional process received over 80%. In those municipalities whose mayors did not open up for referendums, the organisations themselves organised the referendums. The result was the same. At the same time, there is a parallel process going on from the government with continued repression against the people. The latest developments are the introduction of tear gas chemicals into the water cannons, which are now causing severe burns in the demonstrators. The government also continues to introduce more repressive laws to, among other things, restrict the right of demonstration. Today, the demonstrations will be repeated at national level, as they do every Friday. The streets will be filled, and it will result in more injured and arrested. Will the Swedish Government at all act against the Chilean Government, in which case in what way? If you are not willing to use the tools available to put pressure, what are the criteria for putting pressure on a government? Is it murder, torture, systematic sexual violence and illegal arrests? All this is happening today in Chile.
i-0e800997b6adb036-167	Madam President, I would like In the last two months, the Left Party has been trying to find answers to what is the government's strategy for Chile. It is great to condemn the violence of the police and the military, but what then? How do you work actively to put pressure on the Chilean government? Unfortunately, the answers have been and continue to be few. Let us make a few points to begin with. The government wants to use trade to strengthen democracy, the rule of law and human rights, but in this particular case it does not want to put pressure on the Chilean Government. Instead, we want to continue to negotiate the association agreement. The government believes that if you do as the Left Party thinks and pause the negotiations, note pauses, then you close a door. The question then is what initiatives the government would like to take in order to serve the purpose of strengthening democracy, the rule of law and human rights, but we do not have any real clarity about that. Madam President, I would like It can also be said that the new Constitution, which the Swedish Government welcomes, has not silenced the protests. The distance between politicians and ordinary people in Chile is clearly long. As a result, politicians have entered several clauses in the work on the Constitution that the people do not intend to accept. The UN climate summit COP 25 can also be included in this context. The move from Chile certainly led to a reduction in repression of demonstrators. At the same time, the reports from Madrid point out that the Government of the Republic of Chile was unable to conduct the negotiations properly. In Madrid, world countries and leaders missed a crucial opportunity to combat climate change. It was never taken, and a heavy responsibility for this rests with the Chilean Government. What, then, is the reason for the protests? In Chile, the richest part of the population owns over 26% of the country's assets and the poorest half about 2%. Much of the Chileans find it difficult to survive financially. The minimum wage is very low and is not enough to pay for necessities such as housing, education, health care, water, electricity and public transport. Half of the country's wage earners have a very low salary. In 2019 the country has been shaken by the extensive protests. The brutal violence that has been encountered has aroused unpleasant memories of Pinochets's military dictatorship. It's great that the government produces MR reports. It is important for the work we have in Sweden to raise awareness of the crimes that are taking place around the world against human rights. The fact that this spring there will be a new such report on Chile is also a good thing. But our reports in Sweden will never be heard in Chile. It will never be the right strategy for reacting there. What will Sweden do? I and the Left Party believe that it is time for Sweden to raise the voice of Chile's people. Minister of Foreign Affairs Ann Linde can call Chile's ambassador to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and be clear in his condemnation of the violence and brutality that we have seen, the introduction of a state of emergency and the use of the military. The EU can and should be called upon to pause the updating of the Association Agreement with Chile. It is reasonable for the whole of Europe to put pressure on the Chilean Government to stop the violence of the military and police, to de facto create a peaceful process around constitution and other parts of society and to listen to the protestors' demands. You can also stop Swedish arms exports to Chile's military. It's not really big, but it does exist. I think it would be a clear mark on the Swedish side if arms exports were to be stopped. Our question remains from the Left Party: What does the Swedish Government do for the Chilean people?
i-0e800997b6adb036-179	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Government expects human rights to be respected in all circumstances. In answer to your questions, I can inform you that the government has raised this several times with the Chilean ambassador. Sweden is among the countries in the European Union that put the strongest pressure, so when you say that we do not put pressure, you are going with untruth. That's not true, so stop saying it! The Chilean Government has acknowledged that the police have not followed the procedures for the use of violence and that violence against demonstrators has occurred. In the light of the widespread allegations of human rights violations, it is crucial to ensure accountability towards the police and the military. And that's what we do all the time. Chile is a democratic rule of law. Of course, the Swedish Government expects Chile's independent judiciary to investigate the allegations of violations that have arisen, and that process has already begun. Last Tuesday, I spoke personally to Michelle Bachelet, who is the UN Human Rights Commissioner. She has sent a committee there to see how to ensure accountability. These independent audits from other national human rights institutes and civil society organisations are also very important, and the Office of the High Commissioner of the United Nations has criticised the use of violence and is now doing what it can to get accountability. We are among the toughest of all who put pressure on and demand this. It is particularly worrying that these reports contain data on disproportionate violence, non-necessary violence, deaths, injuries, torture, sexual violence and arbitrary intervention. I have received information about this countless times from the Swedish ambassador to Chile, and I have kept myself updated all the time, during the worst time on a daily basis. At the same time, it is important to point out that these reviews have been carried out at the invitation of the Chilean Government, which has also announced that it values these reports and follows up the recommendations concerning, inter alia, police reform. The UN report shows that Chilean authorities have cooperated with the observers. They have been given free access to hospitals, police stations, detention centres and prisons. Observers have been able to conduct a large number of interviews with hundreds of civilians affected, but also with a large number of police officers, with several injured during the protests and with demonstrators. The same report shows that Chilean authorities, both courts and the National Institute of Human Rights, have taken a number of measures to prevent, report and investigate the widespread allegations of human rights violations. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Government takes the situation in Chile, including the allegations of human rights violations, very seriously. Saying something else is false. We follow developments closely and have meetings with representatives of the Chilean Government, with other political parties and with civil society. I have spoken several times about the situation in order to emphasise the importance of respect for human rights and the fact that the authorities do not practice disproportionate violence. It is essential for democracy and the rule of law that freedom of expression, association and assembly be respected. We have produced a report on human rights in Chile, which addresses these problems. Next year the report will be updated, and the events of recent months will, of course, be part of this review.
i-0e800997b6adb036-191	Madam President, I would like Those were harsh words from the Secretary of State. I didn't understand if the government has called in the ambassador, but I understood that you've had a conversation. However, this has not been clear to the outside world. I would like the Foreign Minister's harsh words to be addressed to a government that is committing human rights violations rather than to parliamentarians who are trying to raise the issue in this House. I agree that international agreements are important, as the Foreign Minister points out. But we also need to think about what they're for. Is it intended to be used for the purpose of humanrightswasha. or.. greenwasha.? As a country, we have a responsibility for what is happening in Chile today. We have maintained trade and relations as usual despite the murders of social leaders, illegal arrests and deadly environmental destruction that population, animals and nature have endured for the last 30 years. Sweden has consistently increased its exports to Chile without any liability requirements. The Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that a pause in the modernisation of the Association Agreement would not benefit democracy and human rights in Chile. However, I think it would be a way of indicating that we are serious about the points we have signed in the Association Agreement. A government that violates human rights must be told by the outside world that it is unacceptable, and in fact I have not heard Sweden's voice clearly enough.
i-0e800997b6adb036-196	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Foreign Minister clearly raises the tone and says that you are the toughest of all. I hope that this tone also applies to the Chilean Government. We have wanted clarity that we should be clear in our criticism of Chile and that Sweden and the EU should put pressure on Chile. It is good that criticism has been expressed to the ambassador and in the contacts that have been made with the government. The Left Party has two more demands. One is to stop arms exports to indicate that Sweden will not send weapons as long as the current police and military brutality continues. The second is to pause the negotiations on the Association Agreement. It is clear that trade and exchanges between Chile and Europe – and Sweden – are good. However, by indicating that you do not intend to proceed with the updates as long as the brutal violence continues, you send a clear signal. That is a concrete way of saying clearly: if you stop the violence, a day will come when we can start negotiating again. Madam President, I would like Let us be clear that the Chilean Government wants to present two pictures, one of which takes the concerns about police brutality seriously and another in Chile. We are adding chemicals to the water cannons to show that we are prepared to go even further towards those who are demonstrating, while at the same time saying internationally that we are taking the concerns and reports seriously. We must constantly see and keep in mind that these two things are happening. It's great that the Secretary of State has spoken to Michelle Bachelet. She is a good friend of Sweden and the values we stand up for, and she does an important job. I hope that we can continue to support this.
i-0e800997b6adb036-200	Madam President, I would like The interpellant says she has not heard Sweden's voice. That's only because the interpellier hasn't listened. If we have not understood what we have said about Chile to the ambassador, to Chile directly, to the UN High Commissioner and time and again in the EU, it is because we have not wanted to listen in order to be able to express criticism – criticism that is not necessary. The fact that we have different ways of looking at how to deal with these issues is quite another matter. I fully respect the fact that the interpellier has a different opinion from that of the government on, for example, the suspension of trade agreements, and I have explained why we do not think it is a good strategy. Autumn's massive demonstrations in Chile and several other countries have shown widespread popular dissatisfaction with, among other things, social inequality and inefficient public institutions. Sweden and the EU can and should contribute to meeting these challenges, both by promoting economic development, as an agreement does, and by promoting, in dialogue with Latin America, respect for human rights, democracy, the rule of law, transparent and effective governance, enhanced protection of the environment and climate, a robust civil society and gender equality. This broad commitment is in line with the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' action plan for Sweden's relations with Latin America and the Caribbean. Sweden will continue its efforts to deepen its partnership with the countries of the region rather than to isolate it. Madam President, I would like The modernisation of the EU's Association Agreement with Chile aims, inter alia, to achieve more ambitious wordings on workers' rights, sustainability, anti-corruption, gender equality and human rights. For example, the EU intends to include provisions for the effective implementation of ILO core conventions and for the first time a separate chapter on trade and gender equality in one of the EU free trade agreements. The EU negotiating directives state that an independent sustainability analysis of the economic, social and environmental consequences of the free trade component of the agreement will be developed in parallel with the negotiations. This work includes broad consultations with relevant parties, including civil society. Furthermore, the agreement shall contain a clause enabling the agreement to be terminated if the other party fails to respect the fundamental principles of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Such a clause will be a powerful tool to safeguard development in accordance with these common values. Overall, this means that the ongoing modernisation of the EU-Chile Association Agreement can contribute to strengthening cooperation with Chile to promote respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law and economic, social and environmental sustainable development. The Swedish Government therefore fully supports the continuation of negotiations between the EU and Chile.
i-0e800997b6adb036-209	Madam President, I would like The Secretary of State accuses me of not wanting to see or listen to the work of the government. I would like to assure the Minister that there are many of us who have wanted to see a clear position on a daily basis. It would be nice if the Minister listened to this and to the countless organisations that meet and discuss this every week. I would like to conclude by highlighting the process of democracy promoted throughout the country by the people, including UNidad Social, which includes trade unions, environmental organisations, feminist organisations, indigenous peoples' organisations and student organisations. Everywhere we have created self-convening, popular meetings where there is an enormous population education and where we have started a popular constitutional process in order to get rid of the dictatorship's constitution. This is a process that should be supported by the outside world. Chilean people's demands are legitimate. People should have the right to water, which they do not have today because the water is privatised. Children should grow up without being poisoned. Pension systems should ensure the right of older people to a dignified life. People should be able to live without having to borrow money to buy food. The indigenous peoples shall have the right to their culture, land and water. If we think about it, there are many of Chile's people's demands that are applicable here in Sweden as well. Perhaps we can learn from this. I am convinced that Sweden could be a country that plays a positive role in the process of democracy in Chile. And if we have good ties with Chile, let us have it with the Chilean people, not with a government that violates human rights. Let us pause the association agreement, and let us tell the Chilean Government that human rights violations are unacceptable.
i-0e800997b6adb036-213	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a tradition of an open, constructive dialogue with our international partners. Through our membership of the EU, Sweden has the opportunity to conclude broad and ambitious cooperation agreements with third parties to promote our interests and cooperate internationally to strengthen respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. This also creates the conditions for a more open and free world trade, which is crucial for a small, export-dependent country like Sweden. Sweden will promote more deep and broad EU-third party association and free trade agreements and their use to promote respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. If the EU closes the doors to the broad cooperation that the Association Agreement allows, we will reduce our ability to influence the development of our partner countries. The negotiations between the EU and Chile aim to achieve a comprehensive and modern agreement that is more suited to today's needs. The Parties also intend to produce more ambitious wordings on sustainability, anti-corruption, gender equality and human rights. A modernised EU-Chile Association Agreement will be an important tool to safeguard respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law and promote economic, social and environmental sustainable development in Chile. The government therefore considers it counterproductive to pause negotiations with Chile.
i-0e800997b6adb036-217	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling has asked me how I see a normalised relationship with Israel affecting the possibility of condemning Israel's violations of international law and human rights and whether I see any initiative in view of the increasing number of Israeli settlements on occupied land in Palestine. The relationship with both Israel and Palestine is important and something that the government defends. That is why I intend to continue my efforts to strengthen the relationship with Israel and to continue to stand up clearly for Israel's legitimate security needs. There are issues where Sweden and the Israeli Government have different positions. This should not stand in the way of dialogue. One of the foundations of Swedish foreign policy over time and under different governments is to seek dialogue even with countries with which we do not agree on all issues. I intend to continue to pursue this line. Strengthening international law and promoting human rights is one of the foundations of Swedish foreign policy. This line has characterized Swedish action over time, regardless of government. This, too, I will continue to work for. This means that the government remains firmly committed to the two-state solution and an end to the occupation based on international law and UN Security Council resolutions. We are working on the basis of a united EU line in this. The government must, of course, continue to maintain the UN and EU international law-based approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict while maintaining a good and constructive relationship with Israel. The government condemns Israel's settlement policy in the West Bank, including East Jerusalem. We all believe in the EU that settlements are a flagrant violation of international law, contrary to UN Security Council Resolution 2334, adopted on 23 December 2016, and constitute a serious obstacle to the two-state solution. The UN and the EU are united in their view that settlements are illegal. The government regrets the United States' changed position that settlements are not contrary to international law. The UN and the EU have been clear in their criticism of the new position of the United States. My political ambition and that of the government is to work towards a two-state solution in which Israel and Palestine can live side by side in peace and security. For this to become a reality, occupation and settlement policy must stop. This will continue to be clear in Sweden.
i-0e800997b6adb036-222	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for his reply. I have requested this interpellation debate with Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde in view of the worrying developments we are seeing in the West Bank in Palestine with more and more growing settlements. At the same time, we are seeing a very worrying development in Gaza, through Israel's blockade, which has effectively turned Gaza into an outdoor prison. We note that the Israeli Government's violation of international international law and human rights is widespread in both cases. One of the first messages Ann Linde had when she became Minister for Foreign Affairs was that she wanted to see improved relations with Israel. She has then had to make a number of comments on the matter here in Parliament. There is no end in itself for Sweden to have bad relations with any country, nor with Israel. On the other hand, there is no reason to put good relations with Israel over the issue of criticising crimes committed by Israel against international law and against human rights. I would say that it is crucial that Sweden as a country stands up and criticises violations of international law, even when it impairs our relations with a country, even when it comes to Israel. The Israeli Government, led by Benjamin Netanyahu and his attacks on the two-state solution, is clear. It is clear that Netanyahus and Likud's ambitions are to push the two-state solution in mind, where otherwise one would have had a state for Israel and a state for Palestine. Those of us who defend the two-state solution, as I know the Foreign Minister does, who believe in a peaceful solution and who take the issue of expanding settlements in the West Bank very seriously must stand up. At the same time, the suffering continues in the Gaza Strip, where one finds oneself in an emergency because of Israel's blockade. The lack of electricity, clean water and medical supplies, among other things, is causing very difficult conditions for the population. Recent air raids have resulted in the deaths of 30 people, including several children. Israel first went hard out and said they killed a leader of Islamic jihad, but afterwards it turned out that they managed to kill a poor family where the father only bore the same name as the one who was the target. After months of relative calm in Gaza, Israel's attack triggered a response from Hamas in Gaza with over 200 rockets against Israel. In an instant, the hard-tested peoples were back in the same fear as before. The developments we are now seeing can be explained in many ways by two people: Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and US President Donald Trump. Netanyahu is likely to lose power. He is currently clinging with all the means left in power so as not to lose his immunity that he will need. For he is charged with no less than three crimes during his long term in power in Israel. It would be a blessing for the whole world if one day his time ended. Hopefully it will happen when those living in Israel go to elections on 3 March 2020 – the third election in one year. Donald Trump, for his part, is responsible for the U.S. legitimization of Israel's aggressive policy. Instead of putting pressure on Israel, he gives the green light for historical and ongoing violations of international law and helps to make the situation in occupied Palestine worse. Sometimes he waves a peace plan, but we must not forget that it is a chimare so that we forget what he does with his other hand. Madam President, I would like It is against this background that we need to discuss possibly improved relations between Sweden and Israel. Does improved relations mean that Sweden must remain silent about the crimes committed against international law and human rights in Israel? Does improved relations mean that Sweden should not stand up for the two-state solution by consistently opposing more settlements? And does improved relations mean that Sweden should not support the Palestinians in creating an independent state? If this is the price for improved relations, I and the Left Party will never buy it. Sweden as a country must always stand up for human rights, no matter when, by whom and with what motives they are violated.
i-0e800997b6adb036-231	Madam President, I would like The answer to Håkan Svenneling's first question is no. The answer to Håkan Svenneling's second question is no. The answer to Håkan Svenneling's third question is no. One consequence of Israeli settlement policy and the expansion of settlements on occupied land is the demolition of Palestinian buildings and homes, as well as forced displacements and confiscations of homes and humanitarian aid. The EU is, of course, serious about this, as is Sweden as an EU Member State. Sweden and the EU have regularly called on Israel to put an end to this type of action and to comply with the obligations of occupying power. Together with nine other EU Member States and the European Commission's humanitarian aid bodies, Sweden is part of the West Bank Protection Consortium. The consortium contributes to humanitarian protection and wants to strengthen the conditions for the development of Palestinian society in Area C. When projects are demolished and humanitarian aid confiscated, the consortium protests against the Israeli authorities and asks for compensation. The EU is working towards lifting the isolation of Gaza. The EU has consistently stated in Council conclusions, statements, speeches and ongoing dialogue that border crossings must be opened immediately and unconditionally and open to humanitarian aid, trade goods and persons including official representatives of states. The EU is also clear that Israel's security interests must be safeguarded and believes that better living conditions in Gaza would contribute to this. As one of the largest donors to Gaza, Sweden contributes not only to humanitarian aid but also to the construction of infrastructure, water, electricity, health sector and private sector development. Sweden has long been one of the largest donors of services to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees Unrwa. I and the Jordanian Foreign Minister Safadi met several times in the autumn, no later than this week, to try to ensure that support for Unrwa continues despite the fact that there have been management problems. Among other things, through the support that Sweden provides, we are helping to alleviate the great humanitarian needs in Gaza. We are also very clear that Gaza must be part of Palestine. Gaza must be given the opportunity to become a future Palestinian State window to the Mediterranean. This requires, among other things, the opening and expansion of relations with the West Bank. The government is clear that Israel has a responsibility as an occupying power to protect the Palestinian population. It is important that any use of violence follows the principles of necessity and proportionality. The government is also clear in its condemnation of rocket shootings at civilians in Israel. Rocket attacks from Gaza on civilians in Israel are contrary to humanitarian law. On this issue too, there is a clear common EU approach. The only lasting and long-term solution to the recurrent violence is a political solution, a two-state solution.
i-0e800997b6adb036-241	Madam President, I would like I welcome the three clear 'nos' that the Foreign Minister gave to my questions, and I hope that these clear 'nos' will also apply in the future. I think it is very crucial to be clear to the Israeli Government and its representatives that Sweden will continue on this line and criticise the crimes committed. We will not want to back down on these points in order for there to be improved relations, but if someone is going to work to improve relations, it is the Israeli Government that needs to change the policy pursued in the occupied territories of Palestine. This is how relations will improve. I was going to go into three areas that I think are important to touch on, and the Foreign Minister has been involved in one of them. Those who suffer most from the occupation from Israel are the children. Palestinian children are subjected to cruel treatment by Israeli soldiers when they are arrested. Handcuffs and the absence of a parent or lawyer during interrogation are standard. Three-quarters of those arrested are physically abused or forced to be blindfolded, and one-third are given too little food or threatened to admit – according to UNICEF. In Gaza, every other child feels persistent fear, and a great many children suffer from bedwetting, nightmares and sleeping difficulties. We can agree that this can affect all children worldwide. But in Gaza it is about children being afraid of the next air strike or attack. This year, 27 children have been killed by snipers in Gaza. Children simply cannot be children. Actually, I don't know if the settlers' children are so much better off. They're better off, but maybe not good. I saw a settler boy who was about to become a teenager with worn toys and for little playmates. On his T-shirt he had harsh messages from the settler movement. Instead, he sought out the young soldier who stood a step away at the settlement and was guarding. It's not a good environment to grow up among soldiers armed to their teeth. It's not a place where there's supposed to be kids. The situation in the second largest city of the West Bank Hebron is deteriorating. The settlements in Hebron are the essence of the consequences of the occupation. In the middle of central Hebron there is a settlement with a few houses where the most harsh leaders of the settler movement live. Around them are Palestinians who daily pay the price for the violence and aggression of settlers. As a result, the entire business life of central Hebron has been shut down. Where, among other things, the fruit market, the spice market, the chicken market and the gold market existed, everything is now deserted. In their place, new settlements will now be established. The settlements will make Hebron an even more dangerous city and the possibility of creating a two-state solution increasingly difficult. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, although she has given some answers to this, what Sweden is doing to stop the massive expansion of settlements that we are now seeing in the West Bank. The Foreign Minister was on the issue of aid. I think that is very good. I welcome the fact that the government has extended its support to Unrwa. The work that has been put into Unrwa has been great and very important. As late as 9 December, the Israeli army destroyed a water reservoir in the Palestinian community of Einnoun in the occupied West Bank. The reservoir provided 200 families with water and was worth over half a million dollars. It was paid with Swedish aid and built by the help organisation Oxfam together with local partners. Israel is tearing down buildings that have been financed with aid. These are hundreds of buildings and projects that are destroyed every year, ranging from solar panels to playgrounds and schools. According to the UN, there are 13 000 demolition orders awaiting Palestinian buildings in the area. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been partly concerned with this, but what can Sweden do to hold Israel accountable for the destruction of Swedish and European aid on this scale?
i-0e800997b6adb036-251	Madam President, I would like Of course, the children are the ones who suffer the most. This applies to the children of Palestine, but also to the children of Israel. As Håkan Svenneling surely knows, I have been on the board of Olof Palme International Centre for 13 years and thus also worked on several projects in Palestine. One of them is about psychological help for children in Gaza. Children are so traumatized by living in such a situation. It is, of course, absolutely terrible. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the children of Israel are not well off either. I went to a preschool in Sderot myself. A few days earlier, a rocket from Gaza had ended up in the nursery garden. I also visited a school, and while we were there the alarm went off because of new rockets. Of course, both children in Palestine and children in Israel need a peaceful development and a two-state solution. Sweden is one of the largest donors not only to Unrwa but also to Unicef. I would also like to mention the demolition of the Swedish-funded water reservoir. Only yesterday, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had talks with the Israeli ambassador about relations and dialogue. We then raised the issue of the demolition of the water reservoir with the ambassador, because this is of course not acceptable. We are constantly based on international law, and that is the basis of EU and UN policies. I do not see here either that there would be any contradiction between being able to criticise the occupation, the settlements and so on and having a good relationship with Israel. It is my wish that there be a better relationship with Israel. Nor do I believe that the polarisation that we are now seeing in Israel is positive for development. It has also been very harsh in the election campaigns from Netanyahu, for example, when we have proposed the annexation of the whole area C, which is, of course, not in accordance with international law and is absolutely unacceptable. As far as settlements are concerned, we have a clear view: they are illegal under international law. The United States is now saying that they are not wrong-doers, and that is not something that Sweden and the European Union are doing either. We have protested against the expansion of settlements, which are continuing and continuing and have been doing so for years now. In 2016, the UN adopted a Security Resolution condemning settlements, as well as violence against civilians, the confiscation of land, house demolishment and the transfer of civilian Palestinians. During the Swedish membership of the Security Council, Sweden worked for the implementation of the resolution and stressed the importance of monitoring this through annual reports from the UN Secretary-General. The result was a written report every other time at the security meetings of everything relating to the peace process.
i-0e800997b6adb036-258	Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister addresses the relationship between Israel and Palestine and the crimes committed against international law. It is true that this is happening on both sides and that a peaceful solution is the best way to get to grips with it. But let us not forget that Israel is the occupying power. It is Israel that bears the main responsibility for the current situation in Israel and Palestine. The proportions are always such that it is the Palestinians who suffer the most in scale. Then there are also Israelis who are suffering. We see them; there are crimes against them too. However, if the Israeli military stopped the violence, with outdoor prisons in Gaza and with settlements in the West Bank, a peaceful solution to Israel – the Palestine conflict would also be possible. It is important to see this. There are differences between the policy of the government and that of the Left Party around Israel and Palestine. We have written a motion this year on these issues. Nevertheless, I would like to say that I am pleased with the foreign minister's response to my interpellation that we are not going to twirl these things in criticising the Israeli Government for an improved relationship. The Minister also raises the issue of settlements. During the year, we have received a decision from the European Court of Justice to label products produced on the land of residence. I hope that the Swedish Government can take the lead shirt and implement the decision of the European Court of Justice. I believe that this is an important measure for people as consumers to be able to make active choices and choose the products they want. It becomes clear in this way where they have been produced. There are also other agreements where the Swedish Government needs to clarify the difference between products that have been produced in Israel and products that have been produced in settlements on occupied land. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to wish the President, the Parliamentary Office as a whole, my parliamentary colleagues and, of course, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and her officials a Merry Christmas. I hope there'll be a moment to rest. In any case, I will not ask any more interpellations and written questions right now, but I will continue to do so in January when we start Parliament's work again.
i-0e800997b6adb036-264	Madam President, I would like I have no doubt whatsoever that there will be many more interpellations after New Year's. I am only grateful for that, because these are important issues that are being debated. As far as Israel and Palestine are concerned, I think we agree that a two-state solution is the best and that the way there is now very complicated. As long as the occupation continues, Israel has special obligations as an occupying power. These obligations will continue to remind both the EU, the UN and therefore Sweden of as much as is required as criticism will continue to be pronounced when violations of international law, including international law and human rights, are committed by Israel. EU policy makes it clear that the only way to put an end to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is through an agreement on an end to the occupation, ending all claims and meeting the expectations of both parties. In line with this bill, the government will continue to argue that the occupation must stop in order for both Israelis and Palestinians to be able to live in security and peace and freedom. I would also like to wish you a Merry Christmas to the President, to everyone who is here today and, of course, to Håkan Svenneling. I also thank you for the interpellation.
i-0e800997b6adb036-268	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat has asked me what measures I intend to take to counter school segregation. I share Daniel Riazats's view that the increased school segregation in Swedish schools is a very serious development that must be curbed. The recently presented PISA study shows that Swedish school is on its way back to top-class knowledge. This is of course very pleasing, but unfortunately the results also show that Sweden has not managed to break inequality in school. Differences between pupils' learning outcomes have increased, and schools are increasingly divided according to pupils' socio-economic background and whether pupils have immigrated or have foreign backgrounds. This is serious and also undermines the important value of meeting pupils of different backgrounds in school. We know that a large part of school segregation in comprehensive school is due to housing segregation, but we also know that school elections are a contributing factor to the increased school segregation. In order to break the inequality in Swedish school, I mean that we need to do several things at the same time. As long as we have school segregation, measures must be taken to deal with the consequences of the increased disparities. The government is implementing a series of measures to this end. One example is the state support for enhanced equivalence and knowledge development that provides more resources to the principals who need it most. Another example is the initiative on Collaboration for the best school, which provides targeted support to schools with low knowledge outcomes that have difficult opportunities to improve students' performance on their own. But measures must also be taken to break school segregation and prevent school segregation. Now at the turn of the year, we are changing the EBO legislation with the aim of getting more asylum seekers than today to choose to live in areas where there are conditions for socially sustainable reception. It is an important measure to break the segregation of residents, but measures are also needed in the school area. The design of school elections needs to be changed so that it can help reduce school segregation. This has been noted by both the School Commission and the OECD. The Government therefore set up an investigation into a more equivalent school that is tasked with further work on the School Commission's proposal, analysing and considering, among other things, how the rules on placement in municipal school units and the reception and selection of independent schools can be changed in order to further promote a comprehensive social composition of pupils in school. The investigator shall report on his/her mission by 30 March 2020. The study on planning and dimensioning of komvux and upper secondary school can also provide evidence that can counteract school segregation. The issue of school segregation is also a focus area within the government's long-term reform programme to reduce and counteract segregation. It is important that changes in school are sustainable in the long term. Finally, I should like to mention that during the last parliamentary term, a proposal was made to Parliament to include a provision in the School Act that all principals should strive to have a comprehensive social composition in their schools. Unfortunately, that proposal was voted down in Parliament. I hope that in the future more parties will support proposals aimed at counteracting school segregation so that we can remedy the inequality in Swedish schools.
i-0e800997b6adb036-277	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Education Anna Ekström for her reply. I would like to start with a quote from a professor of pedagogy named Marianne Dovemark: I think it says a lot about the school system we have today and the debate we have when it comes to both school segregation and the equivalence problem in Swedish school. The response I received from the Minister to my interpellation is much as expected. The Minister shares my view that there are problems with equivalence and segregation in Swedish schools, but the Government does not intend to take measures aimed at system errors in the Swedish school. The PISA study is mentioned in the interpellation response, which is quite interesting since the OECD's head of education Andreas Schleicher has said that the education in Sweden is not equal and that segregation is increasing because education has become a commodity. There is talk of segregation and the division of pupils in the reply from the Minister. It is also rightly pointed out that a large proportion is about housing segregation, but that the free choice of school makes it even worse. At the same time, there is no action at all when it comes to the free choice of school. The subject is not affected, and nothing is said about us changing the system. The support for increased equivalence is mentioned. At the same time, however, several billions are removed from children of lower ages to fund this effort. In the end, it's just like trying to put a Band-Aid on the wounds that arise from reduced resources for preschool and primary school, where the government removes about SEK 3 billion. In addition, I mean, and also, for example, the Teachers' Association, that the fundamental error in the Swedish school's funding is the school money. Equivalence grants and the like will not lead to a change in the system. It is, again, merely to extinguish a fire. The EBO legislation is mentioned. The Minister says that if we give asylum seekers the opportunity to live in different parts of the country, it will be easier to put in the necessary efforts and segregation will be reduced. At the same time, we know that school segregation in Sweden began long before we got a larger number of students with different backgrounds in our schools. The Minister talks about a study on equivalence, a study on dimensioning and the government's long-term reform programme to reduce segregation. I have been in a number of political reference groups for investigations in recent years. These studies sometimes arrive at very sensible conclusions, but in 90% of cases none of the sensible system changes proposed are proposed later by the government. Marcus Larsson from the think tank Balan has produced a report in which he writes about how municipalities are currently rigging for the establishment of independent schools, together with construction companies and others. I mean, these questions go hand in hand. As long as we have free school elections in primary school, the problem arises. So what does the Minister really want to do, not just when it comes to putting out fires?
i-0e800997b6adb036-288	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat is right and wrong. Let me begin with what he began his speech with: the free choice of school. It is an expression that is often used but rarely defined. What is the free choice of school? Is it that parents and students have the opportunity to indicate which school they want to go to? Is it the rules on the establishment of independent schools that exist in Sweden today? In fact, are these the rules for selection and admission to schools? In fact, parents and students today also indicate their wishes for schools, and the decision is always made by a principal, municipal or independent. Or is the free choice of school the design of the school money that comes with the student when the student changes to an independent school? In my opinion, the free choice of schools is a collective concept for many of the regulatory systems that I have now mentioned. My absolute conviction is that if we are to get school segregation in Sweden we must work with all these components. We will remedy the consequences of our increasing school segregation, but we will also ensure that school segregation can be avoided. In my interpellation response, I have explained all the efforts being made to counter the consequences of school segregation. I note that Daniel Riazat is not very critical of those measures. However, I have also explained what measures the government is taking in relation to, for example, the planning and dimensioning of upper secondary and adult education, a very important issue in my opinion when it comes to avoiding school segregation. I have explained that the government is developing documentation regarding selection and admission, a measure that, in my very firm opinion, is very important if we are to ensure that our school can be less segregated in the future. I would like to remind you that the school grant, which Daniel Riazat mentioned, is the subject of consideration and discussion in the current study on equal schools. It will, of course, also play a role in the decision-making basis that the government will produce on the nationalisation of schools later in its term of office. I can also note that Daniel Riazat is speaking a little scornfully about the investigations that the government is working on in order to come up with well-founded proposals to counteract school segregation. I find it sad that you look so easily at a solid and good investigation basis. Looking back on the reforms made in the 1990s, particularly the reforms relating to the introduction of a school market in Sweden, I can see that a major problem was the lack of evidence. The older I get, Madam President, the more I am delighted with long, thorough and boring investigations that can give us the opportunity to do the right thing in the first place.
i-0e800997b6adb036-294	Madam President, I would like I do not want in any way to detract from the importance of investigations. Based on my commitment to both association life and politics on a full-time basis, I appreciate and believe it is important to have well-founded proposals and ideas, whether they come from us as parties or whether they come from the government. As I said, I have been in a number of different parliamentary reference groups, including in terms of planning and dimensioning of Komvux and upper secondary school. What I can see is that, in many cases, the very important proposals in the investigations unfortunately do not go on to proposals which are not only aimed at remedying matters here and now, but also aimed at remedying things systematically. One example of this is that despite the fact that the School Commission notes that equivalence is declining and that school segregation is a problem, the Government does not put forward the School Commission's proposal to change, for example, the free choice of schools fundamentally. I also believe that many investigators are afraid to submit proposals to the government, because they do not believe that they will be put on the table of Parliament. When it comes to showing respect for investigations, I believe that this criticism should be directed at those in power, and that is the government. Stockholm University has recently come up with research on the free choice of schools and its negative consequences. IFAU has produced a similar report. And the University of Gothenburg has very recently produced a report on the subject. Everyone agrees that the free choice of school is not a system that we should continue with. The SSU, the Youth League of the Minister's Party, has come up with strong criticism and said that the Social Democrats as a party do not dare to raise the issue. Let's be honest here. The Sossarna also said in the election movement that they do not really want to remove the free school elections. Among other things, in a response to Dagens Arena, it was said that we should change the selection criteria and ensure that we have joint admissions for free schools and municipal schools. However, it did not mention the free choice of school or the removal of the system that is fundamentally wrong. Madam President, I would like I got to know the minister during the time the minister was Secretary General of the National Board of Education. I was then impressed by her enormous knowledge and by the fact that the Secretary-General, the current Minister, dared to stand up for issues that were often opposed to even politics. Why would she do that? I mean, she did it because of what she said to me back then: to stand up for what is right, whether you have many opponents. That discussion was also about the free choice of school. I was impressed by the position Anna Ekström took on this issue as Secretary-General. I would like Anna Ekström to do the same thing as a minister and to stand up as a social democrat for what is really a fundamental social democratic policy.
i-0e800997b6adb036-301	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry if I nag. But we need to be careful when we talk about the free choice of school. Daniel Riazat says over and over again that the free choice of school is something to be removed, to be changed. There are various measures to be taken in connection with the free choice of school. But what does Daniel Riazat mean by the free choice of school? When I talk about the free choice of school, I think we should keep an opportunity for parents and students to enter any school you want to go to. That opportunity has existed as long as we've had school. It has been more or less feasible in view of the selection and admission rules that exist. And the rules of selection and admission are central to me when it comes to the free choice of school. My firm conviction is that it is perfectly possible to retain the possibility of choosing any school you want to go to. The opposite would be astounding. Would we forbid parents and students to enter any school they want to go to? I don't think even Daniel Riazat wants such a rule. Instead, let us look at the elements of the set of rules that we today call the free choice of schools and which are important if we want to reduce school segregation. I repeat, the rules on selection and admission are important. The rules on establishment are important. The rules on school money are important. All those rules are now being reviewed by the government. Contrary to what Daniel Riazat said, we are doing so at the request of the school commission to which Daniel Riazat referred. From the School Commission, no sharp proposals were made regarding selection, admission, planning or dimensioning. The school commission gave clear information and told the government that there is a need to set up investigations that can come up with legislative proposals. That's exactly what we've done. Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat also devotes quite a large part of his speech to reviewing the school policy of the Social Democrats, in government positions and in electoral movements. It is, of course, free for Daniel Riazat to raise that discussion in an interpellation debate. I am happy to answer questions about how the government exercises its power. It is still part of what we have the interpellation instrument for. With the permission of the President, I can give an explanation of what is the policy of the Socialist Party. Daniel Riazat referred to an individual response in the electoral movement. If Daniel Riazat had instead looked at what the Social Democrats promised in his election manifesto, he would have seen that we wanted to break school segregation, that we wanted to restrict the school market and that we wanted to impose restrictions on the right to profit at school. I say this as information, Madam President, because Daniel Riazat raised the issue. I now foresee that Daniel Riazat will devote the next speech to telling me that the Social Democrats have not fulfilled all these electoral promises. That is quite right, Madam President. The Social Democrats received 28% in the elections. With 28%, you can't get through everything you want. That is why we have reached a compromise, the so-called January agreement, with pride. It gives us good opportunities to work with important parts of what we today call the free choice of schools to counteract school segregation. I am thinking above all of selection and admission. I am thinking of planning and dimensioning, but also the construction of the school money. On the other hand, we have promised not to go further in government positions with proposals for profit restrictions. We will of course be able to do that, but as a Social Democratic Party we are still firmly convinced that it would be good for Swedish school and to counteract school segregation with a profit limit in school. But we will stand by what we have promised in the January agreement we have concluded.
i-0e800997b6adb036-310	The point made by Minister for Education Anna Ekström is, of course, correct. Interpellation debate is about the government's actions.
i-0e800997b6adb036-311	Madam President, I would like Last time I looked at the Parliament's website, various different parties were included in the government, i.e. the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party. Hence my comment to the Social Democrats. I am not going to devote my speech to talking about the Social Democrats not keeping their electoral promises. I think a majority of Sweden's population already knows that. I have taken note of that. The Social Democrats have gone from 40% to 28% today. However, that is not the point. When we have all the research ready, when we have a massive turnout from various researchers, universities, OECD and other important actors on these issues, why should we not listen when they say that the free choice of school is what needs to be removed to counteract segregation? I was asked what I mean by the free choice of school and what it means. The free choice of school means that we have created a system where students no longer meet, where children of the chief physician and children of the refugee who have recently come to Sweden no longer meet in the same way. That is something that we must fundamentally change. The free choice of school is a school system that allows profit-making operators to have queue systems for students to get there and that allows operators to make money from it. The free choice of schools is a non-functioning school system that helps to increase segregation and reinforces the already existing segregation that exists in society due to economic policy. I have also noticed that the government is now going from saying that the school elections are wrong to that it is quite okay.
i-0e800997b6adb036-317	Madam President, I would like It is very difficult to discuss with Daniel Riazat when he uses the concept of the free choice of school, alternately to components of this and alternately as a way of describing the results of the school market model and school segregation that has arisen in Sweden. When we legislate in the Swedish Parliament, Daniel Riazat, it is important that we have legislation that is investigated and proposed. During my term of office, I will continue to work on legislation dealing with very important and central elements of what Mr Riazat calls the free choice of schools: the rules on selection and admission, the rules on planning and dimensioning, and the rules on the construction of school money. Like Mr Riazat, I know not only that the Social Democrats received 28% in the Parliamentary elections, but I also know that the proposals we put forward will be able to go through in the Swedish Parliament. Politics is to want, but politics is also to be able to. On my shoulders lies the responsibility to produce proposals that can break school segregation but that can also go through in the Swedish parliament. I am fully determined to do this. The reason why I accepted when Stefan Löfven offered me to become a minister in the Swedish government – a very nice offer – was that I am convinced that political action and legislation are needed to break school segregation. I want to use the power that I have been given to put forward proposals that can go through in Parliament. I will do so with a clear vision behind my actions. This vision is a vision of an equal school where children and students from different backgrounds meet. It is a school that allowed the little girl who went to primary school in Farsta in the 60's to move from poor Farsta to rich Bromma and knew as much as her new classmates. That's what happened to me when I switched schools when I was ten years old. My vision of equal school is a school where children and students meet in the same school.
