i-381e861ec3e0b5be-15	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what a consequence analysis I have made of the Kronofogdemyndigheten's decision, what consequences the decision has for the operations, whether the decision is anchored with the other parties in the framework of the January agreement and whether the closure of well-functioning state activities in Gävleborg is consistent with the government's stated ambition to improve the state presence throughout the country. I replied in March this year similar interpellations on the same subject. The questions are raised against the background that the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten 2018 decided to relocate its operations from Hudiksvall to Gävle and Sundsvall. In 2018, the Swedish Enforcement Authority also decided, after a government assignment, to move about 80 annual labour force from Stockholm to other locations. Initially, I would like to stress that the government's policy should benefit the whole country; rural and sparsely populated areas as well as larger cities should be able to develop. Government presence is an important issue for the whole country to both live and grow. Many authorities, including the Swedish Enforcement Authority, are responsible for the organisation of the operations themselves, including their office structure. However, the government sees a need for more regional consideration when authorities decide on location. The Government therefore decided on a new regulation on the location of state authorities, which entered into force on 1 June 2019. During the spring of 2019, the Government also gave the County Administrative Boards and Statskontoret several different tasks to produce data, which is now the basis for the continued work to strengthen the state presence in the country. In order to ensure and strengthen access to basic government services throughout the country, the National Service Centre is responsible from 1 June 2019 for a comprehensive organisation for local government services including services related to the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the Swedish Pension Agency. In October 2018, the Swedish Enforcement Authority described in its interim report of the Government's mandate to relocate certain activities that it might also benefit from the activities of the Service Offices. At the moment, preparations are under way for service offices to also provide services regarding Arbetsförmedlingen. Today there are 113 government service offices, including 1 in Hudiksvall, and work on developing the local government service organisation continues.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-22	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Yesterday, Ulla Andersson, Left Party, and I visited Hudiksvall and Kronofogdemyndigheten there. Remarkably, we were not allowed to be in Kronofogden's premises, but in an adjacent room we met the employees in Hudiksvall. I note that the Government's response is in stark contrast to reality. The reality is that those living in Hälsingland will have a significantly worse public service when the state withdraws. I wish the Minister of Finance would visit Hudiksvall. It is about 300 km north of Stockholm. It's a bit from Nacka, but it's fine to go by train there. I wish the Minister of Finance would sit down with the 16 employees, who are doing a very good job. I would also like the Minister of Finance to take the opportunity at the same time to meet one of the people who unfortunately has regular contact with the Swedish Enforcement Authority. It is about a little more than 5 000 debtors in Hälsingland alone. During my and Ulla Andersson visit yesterday it was also clear that the reception in Hudiksvall has already closed. Now the reception has closed in ten offices around Sweden. During our visit we sat in a connecting room, but all the time people pulled the door. People living in Hälsingland are therefore trying to visit the activities that the Ministry of Finance has closed down. Madam President, I would like It will also be a very small saving. After all, no one should be dismissed, but just as the Minister for Finance says, 16 people are to be transferred to the office in Sundsvall. This means that these 16 people, outside working hours, will travel to Sundsvall. From Sundsvall they will then go back to Hälsingland to do their work. When the working day is over, they will get back to Sundsvall and then, outside working hours, travel back to Hudiksvall, where most people live. What are the Kronofogden's operations in Hudiksvall? For example, there are about 300 service cases a week, and four times a week there is physical activity. There is a sale of real estate, and the legislation is so designed that when Kronofogden sells real estate, the buyer must be physically there. There is one sale per month when four to six items are sold. You should be quite realistic if you think that this will not be a severe deterioration for those living in Hudiksvall. The staff at Kronofogden were also concerned. They too have read the government's statements that the state should be present and that the public service should be close to the citizens of society. Those who live in Färila in Hälsingland, for example, now get very far to the office in Sundsvall, and that is of course a deterioration. The fact that employees have not received any information is, of course, an employer responsibility for which the government cannot be burdened. However, it would be interesting to hear the Minister for Finance reflect. Does the Minister of Finance not think that there will be a severe deterioration for those living in Hälsingland if there is no state presence of the Kronofogden?
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-34	Madam President, I would like I am the first to regret that this type of debate is coming again. This is not the first time that we have stood in these seats and are debating authorities who behave in a way that the government wants to indicate that it does not really support – or at least that it has a different ambition. The government has never been late in drumming out its ambition in this area: All of Sweden will live. Then it becomes all the more distressing to see how authorities time and again work hard to act in the opposite direction. You're centralizing. You move services to central areas, often all the way here to Stockholm. The case we are now discussing therefore concerns the Centralisation Plans of the Kronofogden. In my own county, it's about moving jobs from Mora to Falun. It is a remarkable proposal, because it cannot be demonstrated what the added value of it would be. It is also remarkable that the government is not prepared to speak more clearly about what it really thinks. The government is constantly hiding behind the fact that the individual authority itself owns to organize and structure its activities. Certainly that must be the general rule, but when you see that the actions of the authority in the specific case run counter to the overall ambition of the government for the whole country to live, you must, of course, intervene as a government. Moreover, it should be without prestige to draw conclusions from previous relocations that have not worked. Just a few years ago we had an example where the Tax Agency moved from Mora to Falun. Then there were problems with filling the new services in Falun. From the beginning, it was said that every effort would be made to enable Mora employees to solve this by commuting, to work from home sometimes or to get favorable travel contracts, but once the move had taken place, the employer began to withdraw this because they wanted those commuting from Mora to resign and return to the local labour market in Mora. This is not a good thing, Madam President! Ultimately, responsibility falls to the government, for it is the government that governs the kingdom and its authorities. If the government is not prepared to act against this, it must be interpreted as taking place with the good memory of the government and the Minister for Finance. It would therefore be very beneficial to hear whether the Minister for Finance is prepared to back up the policy that the whole of Sweden should live by governing its authorities in a clearer way.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-41	Madam President, I would like The order we have in Sweden is that the authorities themselves decide on their office structure, their location, how many will work in the different offices and how many will work at the agency in general. Now it sounds as if both Members of Parliament here are questioning that order, but I have not seen any concrete proposals in the Riksdag from Moderates that the government and the Riksdag should take over direct responsibility for how authorities should locate themselves. As long as we have no other order than this, the criticism is that the government is not acting flat. The order we have is that the authorities decide on their activities and location. However, in addition to these changes in the office structure, the Swedish Enforcement Authority has also worked with more of the agency's employees to work outside our metropolitan areas. It has therefore relocated 80 years of work from Stockholm to other parts of the country. That is, of course, a good thing, because it is important to have government jobs throughout the country. There are also good opportunities to find skills and acquire skills to stay in public authorities for longer when they are located outside metropolitan areas. The second question concerns the state service. The Swedish Enforcement Authority has shown an interest in the state service agencies and possibly to join this structure. Of course, it remains to be seen whether they have joined that structure when the offices in these places close. Then there is an opportunity to continue to have physical visits. The Swedish Enforcement Authority also wants to improve its availability 24 hours a day and every day of the week and therefore also strengthens its digital platform, so that there will be more opportunities for those who need to have contact with the Swedish Enforcement Authority to handle their matters digitally. There is also a well-developed telephone service. I have been told that the office in Hudiksvall has had about three visits a day. At Lars Beckman it sounded like people were twitching the door all the time. That may have been the case at the time, but I have been told that it is an average of three visits a day. It is possible that any of them could be done digitally or by telephone. Then, of course, the Kronofogdet must see how to deal with those who still need physical visits – for example, it can be through the service office structure or something else.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-47	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance obviously has no idea of what activities are taking place at the local office of the Swedish Enforcement Authority in Hudiksvall. It is probably the same kind of business in the offices in Arvika and Mora, which will also be closed. This activity cannot be replaced by service offices. It's naive to think so. When I and Ulla Andersson were there yesterday, we asked the employees what we would like to take with us to this interpellation debate, what they would like to say to the Minister for Finance and what questions they would like answers to. One question that came up was: Why does the government let this happen if you want the state to exist throughout the country? I think very many people know that the government could say in a regulatory letter that one should be present. Another, rather young co-worker said: I'm transferred to Hudiksvall. I moved to Hudiksvall because I want to live here with my family. I don't want to work. Not everyone wants to move to the big city. If you live in Nacka or Stockholm, I understand that Stockholm is the big city, but in this case it is Sundsvall you mean. Digitalisation should create jobs in Hudiksvall. Then let's reverse the whole argument. Hudiksvall has a good and nice office that is very appreciated. Other offices have been lost now. If you want the whole of Sweden to live in real life, you could have expanded the operations in these premises and created more jobs in Hudiksvall. That was told to me and Ulla Andersson. This is what is so worrying, as Mr Bohlin points out. The government says one thing but lets its authorities act the other way around. In this case, it means that Hälsingland will be without the physical presence of the Enforcement Authority. What does that mean for the person who is in debt restructuring? It goes without saying that the person who is in debt restructuring has a very small economy. To then have to travel between Hudiksvall and Sundsvall, for example, becomes a very expensive story. In addition, I am pleased that the Minister for Finance has raised this issue by calling. Our fellow Member Ulla Andersson just tried to call Kronofogden on Friday afternoon and find one of the employees we were supposed to meet. She sat for over 20 minutes in the telephone queue before she managed to get through, and before being connected to the right person, it took a few more minutes. I think it would be useful for the Minister of Finance to try calling and using the telephone services to which she refers. Because of the government's policy, therefore, there is less public service for those living in Hälsingland. As I said, I do not seriously believe that the Minister of Finance believes that a service office will work on eviction or service. Of course, the 16 employees who are there today are needed, and the Kronofogdet has not said that they should be dismissed, but you only move people. The only cost you can possibly save is the local cost in Hudiksvall. On the other hand, the local cost arises in Sundsvall instead. From Sundsvall the employees will then drive to northern Hälsingland. It's going to be a terrible car ride! As far as I understand, the government has the ambition to reduce car driving and that more people should drive fossil-free, and the government has pronounced environmental ambitions. This cannot be considered to be consistent with those ambitions.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-56	Madam President, I would like Surely no one questions the general rule that the Swedish authorities have the right to organise themselves in the manner they find most appropriate, and I did not do so in my introductory speech either. But if it were the case that the inner life of an authority suddenly turns out to run counter to a declared ambition of the government, the government has, of course, every opportunity in the world to put its foot down and mark the issue. To the knowledge of the Minister for Finance: The current government did just that on the question of the university's location in my own country, for example. Of course it is quite possible to do so even now. I do not understand why people are so afraid of taking the political battle for what they say they stand for, namely that the whole country should live. In addition, we have the expensive-purchased experience of the Tax Agency's relocation. In my home country it was just the same places – there was a move from Mora to Falun. There was no saving. The effect of the relocation was only complicated and difficult to fill the services after the relocation had taken place. This is a lack of respect for what academic jobs actually do in a small town. I find it regrettable that the government does not take this issue more seriously.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-58	Madam President, I would like Given that we do not have any concrete proposals from the Moderates at Parliament's table regarding taking greater responsibility on the part of the government in terms of the office structure in our authorities, the argument might fall a little flat to the ground. If, on the other hand, you have questions for the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten, there is of course all the possibilities in the world for Members of the Riksdag to call the Director General to ask what is the idea and idea behind various organisational decisions. It may also be good to point out that this is not the only thing the Swedish Enforcement Authority does; they also relocate about eighty services from Stockholm to other parts of the country. The arguments put forward by the Swedish Enforcement Authority for the changes they make to the offices I think they are best at motivating themselves, but they believe that the changes will improve the business in the long term. From the government's side, we have had an ambition that more of the state services should be outside our metropolitan areas. During the last term of office, there were 2 000 more jobs in government activities outside our metropolitan regions. I see this as a great success and the start of a job that we would like to continue, because it is of course important that there should also be work with the state as an employer throughout the country. In addition, a well-functioning service is important. Of course, the service offices provide an opportunity to replace the visits that are currently being made to the Swedish Enforcement Authority directly at the offices.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-60	Madam President, I would like I would like to address the other two parties in the January agreement, the Centre Party and the Liberals. Obviously, the government and the Minister for Finance are not going to act. As my colleague, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, suggests, it is possible that this is done by consensus through sub-advanced contacts between the government and the authority. However, to the other parties within the framework of the January agreement, not least the Center Party, I would like to say that I think you should visit Hudiksvall. I think you should visit the employees. If you seriously want all of Sweden to live, you have to put a little hard on this government. You have made an agreement within the framework of the January Agreement, which means that the whole of Sweden will live. If you mean it seriously, you'll have to live up to it too. The fact that the Social Democrats do not see the value of the activities being carried out throughout Sweden is evident from the intervention of the Minister for Finance in this debate. The Minister of Finance knows very well that the government controls the authorities and can control them via regulatory letters. This has been done in other areas. For example, they have inspired Försäkringskassan to cut down heavily for Sweden's disabled people who are in need of LSS. It is clear that the government has the ability to govern its authorities. I also think that the Minister for Finance should try trains to Hudiksvall. I think the Minister of Finance should visit the 16 staff members in Hudiksvall. I am absolutely sure that the municipal management can make a good programme for the finance minister, so that she understands the signal value of the state abandoning important locations in Hälsingland. We have a municipal management that works together around the clock to make sure to create a growing municipality and a good brand for Hudiksvall. But the state leaves Hudiksvall. This is not the way to facilitate the construction of society in the country.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-63	Madam President, I would like The state does not leave Hudiksvall. There will be a wide range of people with state employment in Hudiksvall in the future. Of course I'd love to go to Hudiksvall. I've been there many times. It is a beautiful and beautiful city that you are very happy to visit. I understand, of course, the concerns of many employees who are now working at the Kronofogdemyndigheten and who will be affected by this decision. I am sure that the moderate speakers have a genuine commitment to this issue. But I can also note that neither during their time in government, nor during their time in opposition, have the Moderates acted to ensure that the state takes over and governs exactly what the office structure should look like. It is almost tragic that the tax office in Mora is coming up. It was a decision that was made when the Moderates ruled the country.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-68	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked me how I view the criticism of the waste incineration tax and what the government intends to do in order not to impair the competitiveness of cogeneration in Sweden. The waste incineration tax is part of the cooperation between government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals. The new tax is part of the effort to achieve the national climate targets and a more resource efficient and non-toxic waste management in accordance with the waste hierarchy. A tax on the incineration of waste also clearly shows that the waste hierarchy should be followed and that a high degree of recycling is necessary in the future. The Government considers that the tax is a measure that can have an effect in the long term, especially with regard to the climate targets. It is important to move forward with measures that may have a long-term impact in order to achieve the climate target of net zero emissions in 2045. The Government will commission the Swedish Tax Agency to evaluate the tax and its effects on, among other things, waste streams. The evaluation shall also take into account the competitiveness of district heat and a reliable supply of electricity and heat. The Government has stated in the budget proposal for 2020 that a robust and reliable energy system is a fundamental prerequisite for a modern and well-functioning society. There are local challenges in electricity supply when cities, for example, grow and electricity demand increases as a result of increased electrification. The Government has therefore commissioned a number of county boards from a local and regional perspective to map, analyse and report the impact situation at regional and local level in each county. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate to investigate the extent of capacity shortages in the electricity grid, investigate what the problem has been over time and analyse the conditions and measures linked to the problems identified.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-71	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for the answer to my interpellation. The background, as I said, is the waste incineration tax that is being introduced. The government, with its support parties, has put forward proposals for shock-raised taxes for cogeneration, which is now starting to have an effect in a negative sense in Sweden. Despite warnings from every possible source about the consequences, such as lack of impact in our metropolitan regions in particular, the government has chosen to proceed with the tax proposals. This is something that has now later forced the government to take action to offset the effects of its own policies. The Swedish Democrats are opposed to the introduction of a tax on waste incineration. This is mainly because it is neither cost-effective nor effective in moving towards resource-efficient and non-toxic waste management. On the other hand, I have no doubt about the intention of the tax. But it must also be possible to take account of the reality of its effectiveness. For example, Sweden has previously had a waste incineration tax. The overall aim was also then to favour the waste management that was considered environmentally and socially beneficial, which would steer towards increased recycling. A few years after its introduction, the tax was assessed. The investigation suggested that the tax should be abolished entirely on the grounds that it did not steer at all towards the objectives that justified its introduction. The government has not yet presented any new information that would overturn that conclusion. There is no indication that the proposed tax would significantly increase the recycling of materials. The basic rule of environmental policy governance is that instruments should be put in place as close to the source of problems as possible. With regard to this tax, the government is now doing the exact opposite as it places the tax at the farthest distance from the source of the problem. The investigation set up by the Government to investigate the reintroduction of the tax concluded that a tax on the incineration of waste would not affect decisions on product design or choice of materials in order to facilitate recycling or efforts to sort out certain materials etc. Another problem was that all waste would be taxed equally hard regardless of the environmental impact of the waste and the possibility of treatment other than incineration where it is more appropriate. Madam President, I would like My thinking therefore applies to what the Government thinks is different from when Sweden last had a tax on waste incineration. What now could make it more effective from that point of view?
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-78	Madam President, I would like The answer to the question is: Some of these are also changes that have taken place since the investigation put its report on the table. This means that the arguments for introducing the tax are stronger than when the investigation came to light.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-80	Madam President, I would like Of course, adjustments have been made in the proposal which may affect the worst off-sets in the recycling of materials. But I still find it difficult to understand how the Government thinks it would be effective when the tax deviates from the general principle that it is the polluter who should pay. As far as this is concerned, the answer is still due. I note that the Government and the Government are relatively alone in the confidence shown in the tax. There is no link or incentive for those who design packaging for products. When it comes to additional costs passed on to, for example, district heating customers, the willingness of households to sort their waste is not affected, as it does not matter whether you throw everything in the garbage or sort everything that is possible. It is also the case that the government itself, in the proposal it has put forward on taxation, makes the assessment that a full roll-over of the tax is unlikely to lead to an increase in recycling. It makes a cumulative assessment that the tax on waste incineration has a very limited impact on total greenhouse gas emissions. There is also a risk that the tax will lead to increased greenhouse gas emissions as fossil fuel is taxed less than biofuels in terms of energy content. There's somewhere the irony in it. For example, waste sorting plants that may have received support from the Climate Centre may now have to partially repay the grant money through the tax introduced. The management leads to a reduced sorting and recycling of plastic as the tax becomes higher with an increased sorting out. The reason for this is that the plastic has a high energy content relative to its weight compared to other waste that exists. As a result, if you are to compensate for this, a larger amount of waste needs to be burned when the tax is linked to weight and is priced in SEK per tonne. The bottom line is that it is less profitable to sort out plastic, for example. The list of referrals that have rejected the Government proposal and the proposal that has been drawn up is clearly long. Among the heavier ones are the Konjunkturinstitutet, the Swedish Competition Authority, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council. The Law Council has also rejected the introduction on the grounds that the tax does not deliver against the stated objectives. It is only a matter of agreeing on this kind of symbolic policy in the January agreement. Madam President, I would like The question back to the Government is whether it really believes that, on the basis of the motive for an effective environmental and climate policy, it is effective to introduce that kind of tax. Why do you not trust the assessment made by the state's own energy authority, for example?
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-87	Madam President, I would like The aim of the tax is to increase the possibility of reaching Sweden's national climate targets for net zero emissions by 2045. The idea is that in the long term it will be able to influence what reinvestments municipalities make in their energy production. More of the facilities currently in place will instead invest to fuel biofuels rather than waste. It is not entirely unproblematic as we have it today. The waste incineration that we have today is done with a fossil fuel that is tax-free unlike other fossil fuels. With a tax, you have an opportunity to control in the long term how municipalities choose to reinvest in their facilities. Today we incinerate more waste than we produce in Sweden. We have an import of waste into Sweden. With a tax, the idea is that, in the long term, we may have an incineration of waste that is more adapted to Swedish waste, and that we are instead able to have a higher share of our heating via district heating that is produced with biofuels.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-90	Madam President, I would like I can once again note that the overall assessment made by the government itself is that it has a very limited impact on total greenhouse gas emissions. I can only regret it. At the same time, the government now chooses to move forward with a number of taxes with little or no impact on the environment and climate. It is something that is part of the government's tax exchange in the January agreement to finance reforms such as the removal of the military tax for those with the highest incomes. The lack of awareness also leads to a deterioration in the competitiveness of cogeneration, which has already had consequences. Other measures need to be taken to deal with the consequences of their own policies. It is something that also risks impairing competitiveness and the conditions for business as a whole. It has a negative impact on the overall development of society that is desirable with electrification. It is also rare to see such a wide range of bodies who agree that a proposal is ill-considered and ineffective. Unfortunately, therefore, I can only regret the fact that the government nevertheless chooses to proceed with an inefficient symbolism policy as it now chooses to reintroduce the waste incineration tax.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-95	Madam President, I would like It is the government's view that it is important that we prepare ourselves in good time and for the instruments that can help us reach our climate target of net zero emissions by 2045 – a goal that I guess the Swedish Democrats are not behind. I don't know, but I'd guess you're not behind it. And then you may not be as eager to get there either. This tax will be part of the green tax shift, so it will also lead to lower taxes on income or entrepreneurship. There are examples of this also in this year's budget, which is part of the green tax shift. On the other hand, the abolition of the military tax is not part of the green exchange of taxes. Unfortunately, it is not surprising, but very regrettable, that Mattias Bäckström Johansson spreads this kind of inaccuracies from the Parliament's pulpit. As I said, I don't know what's worse – if Mattias Bäckström Johansson doesn't know about this even though I've been clear about it many times or if Mattias Bäckström Johansson is deliberately lying in the Parliament's pulpit. I don't know which is worse, but either one is. That is regrettable.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-98	Madam President, I would like Helena Bouveng has asked me if I have any other steering oars in my policy to use to face a coming recession and to secure jobs and well-being. She has also asked whether there are additional steering oars or target documents for the government's economic policy that I use this term of office, as well as what makes these steering oars and target documents more credible and effective than the steering oar for unemployment. During the last term of office, employment increased by over 300 000 people, of which around 200 000 were born abroad. The employment rate was at historically high levels and the highest in the EU. Labour force participation, which has risen since 2011, was also at historically high levels. Despite the strong growth in labour force participation, unemployment fell by over 1.5 percentage points. The number of hours worked also increased continuously during the last term of office. The target of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU helped to focus government efforts on improving the functioning of the labour market. After a few years of high growth, there is now a slowdown in the world economy and also in Sweden. Sweden is well equipped for the case that the development is getting worse and we would go into a recession. Since I took office as Minister of Finance, the deficits left by the moderate-led government have turned into surpluses. Public finances are the norm. The government debt ratio is the lowest since 1977. Thanks to the fact that the government has equipped Sweden, we can face the slowdown and a possible recession and at the same time continue to tackle social problems one. On the basis of the January agreement, the Government presents a wide range of proposals, such as the year of integration, the Kunskapsläftet, the start-up jobs and a further 20 welfare billions to municipalities and county councils.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-104	Madam President, I would like I can only note that what the Minister of Finance did not mention were reforms that free year, another family week and that the additional welfare billions are targeted, which the municipalities do not welcome if they are to carry out their welfare mission. Reforms previously presented by the government in the form of extra services and emergency work were not entirely successful either. I very much hope that the government will succeed better this time. Madam President, I would like Prior to the 2014 elections, the Social Democrats elected Sweden to have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU's 28 member states by 2020. At the 2013 Party Congress, Stefan Löfven launched the grand promise: That is the sub-goal of commitment, but we are going for full employment. That, my friends, is Social Democratic politics. There and then 2020 may have been seen as just the right distance away. Unemployment is considered by some to be a rather blunt target as it depends on the progress of other EU countries. But that was the goal on which the Social Democrats chose to go to elections. The objective has also been included in the government budget until now, when the unemployment target has been removed. If I had been a social democrat, I would probably have done exactly the same, because a greater failure is hard to find. In an interview in Ekot on 18 September, the finance minister's own argument that the case was removed, she explained: having that case during the last term of office, that was a good thing. It was a good year for politics. Madam President, I would like At this time, Sweden had a seat of 10 among the other EU countries. Today, we're in position 23 in the unemployment league. It is a bottom ground that we share with countries such as France, Spain, Italy and Greece. It was six years ago, then, that the Social Democrats set the target of the EU's lowest unemployment rate. It is not that the government has not had time not only to stand at a steering age but also to steer the ship in the right direction – and this in a recession with wind in the sails. Maybe more could be described as pales having been around. To be honest, you have to say that this steering oar has led to the bottom, where neither the captain nor his sailors have managed to turn the ship around. Madam President, I would like Now we have a January agreement that lacks both clear objectives and effective reforms for higher growth and full employment. Unemployment is now increasing, and everything indicates that the Swedish economy is weakening. Can a Minister of Finance be satisfied with his steering year, which set the target of having the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020 when the result was position 25 and the starting point was place 10?
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-112	Madam President, I would like This is an urgent debate with the Minister for Finance because the situation in Sweden looks like it does. The needs are obviously great in a number of areas. Of course, this concerns our defence, our police, order and order in general and security and peace of mind in our schools. We simply need resources, measures and reforms everywhere in order for Sweden to be able to break the very negative spiral that we have ended up in. At this point, the economic situation is also turning downwards, as Helena Bouveng pointed out. This makes scarce resources, as always in the economy and in public finances, even more scarce. That is all the more important, Madam President, that we have a finance minister who knows the money and that we have a finance department that understands to prioritise and do what is most useful to the Swedish people with the money that comes in. A great deal of research, investigations and so on shows that a crucial prerequisite for a Minister of Finance to be able to keep track of the economy – but also for those of us who live in the economy that the Minister of Finance should keep an eye on – and be able to evaluate what is happening is that economic policy is being steered towards something. There must be an objective or a purpose of the economic policy pursued. The target may be slightly different in different countries. In Sweden it has traditionally been the case that we have had a surplus target that we have steered public finances towards so that resources will not run out and that we will not be exposed to market forces across different financial markets that drive the country apart. Madam President, I would like One can think about which steering oars Swedish politics now governs with. Helena Bouveng asked about the unemployment case, where Sweden now after revisions is five from the end of the European Union. So we are the fifth worst country in the whole of Europe at work, despite the fact that, according to the Minister for Finance, we would be the best. Sweden is the second most recent year in terms of the development of GDP per capita throughout the European Union. For next year, we are judged to be by far the worst across the EU when it comes to bnp development. As far as public finances are concerned, I believe that in modern times there has been no finance minister who has deviated from the surplus target as much as Magdalena Andersson. The highest figure achieved by the Minister of Finance, according to the Institute of Economic Development, is 0.5 per cent in structural savings. In recent years it has been just below or even barely above zero. In practice, therefore, we are not maintaining the surplus target, for which the Minister for Finance has also been severely criticised by the Council of Finance Ministers, among others. Furthermore, the Minister of Finance has now announced that she wants to abolish the surplus target, despite expensive and sacred promises that this would not happen. Madam President, I would like I have a question that the Minister of Finance needs to answer. If the policy does not move towards an employment target, which it obviously does not, because Sweden is five from the end of the European Union, unless it moves towards high economic growth, which it obviously does not do because Sweden is the worst in the European Union next year, and if it does not move towards a surplus target, which it obviously does not do because we are not maintaining it and because the Minister for Finance has publicly said that she wants to abolish it is the question: what does the Minister for Finance direct public finances towards? What is the purpose of politics? What are we going to achieve? What will the Minister of Finance be evaluated against? If it is not jobs, it is not growth and it is not the surplus target, what is left of economic policy? In fact, the Minister for Finance owes an answer not only to me but to the whole of the Swedish people.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-120	Madam President, I would like It is daring for a moderate to start talking about the structural savings, especially a moderate who worked at the Ministry of Finance in 2014. Then we had the biggest budget deficit since the budgetary adjustment. Although we were in a booming economy, I inherited very large budget deficits after Niklas Wykman's time at the Ministry of Finance – the largest since the budget adjustment. If I am not mistaken, it was structural savings minus 1% in a situation where the surplus target was 1% over a business cycle – far from the framework we had. It's brave and daring, Niklas Wykman. What I have done in my time as Minister of Finance is to clean up the deficits that Niklas Wykman left behind. Now we have order in public finances. We have paid off our public debt and can face a forthcoming slowdown, not with savings, which we would have needed if we had not cleaned up, but by continuing to invest in important measures to strengthen society and build up society. We need to invest more in what we do together. We need to hire more cops. We need to increase resources to the Swedish National Courts Authority, the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the National Board of Forensics, the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten and the Swedish Coast Guard. We do all that in the budget. We need to invest more in schools, in childcare, in health care and in a safe everyday life for our elderly. We do so in the budget. We need to ensure that more unemployed people get to work. We do so in this budget too, following the massive dismantling that took place in the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. What is happening now in the Swedish labour market is that we have had a few years with a very strong increase in employment. Over 300,000 more people are working. As a result, unemployment would have fallen back sharply if more people did not join the labour market. This is what has happened: Labour force participation has increased, not least among women born abroad. Therefore, despite the fact that we have had a labour market that is deteriorating, unemployment has not fallen back in the way it would otherwise have done. During this year we see an increase in the number of registered employees at the Swedish Employment Service. There are several reasons for this, but one is of course the budget voted by the Moderates in the Riksdag. During this year, the number of people enrolled in the Employment Service has increased by 20,000. At the same time, the effect of the budget of the Moderates has been pushed through here in Parliament that the number of subsidised jobs has fallen by 15,000. Perhaps, honourable Members of Parliament, there is a connection between the decisions that you have made here in Parliament and the increase in the number of people enrolled in the Employment Service.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-125	Madam President, I would like I do not think it is particularly brave for the Minister of Finance to stand here and be quite self-righteous. A Minister of Finance who claims to be satisfied is remarkable. Despite a long and prolonged boom, the government has not succeeded in reaching its target of the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Madam President, I would like According to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, 330,000 more people had been employed in Sweden if the government had succeeded in achieving its goal of the EU's lowest unemployment rate – 330,000 more people who went to work every day, 330,000 people who contributed to the common good value, not least in our municipalities, 330,000 more who contribute instead of going to grants. If the government had succeeded in achieving its goal, our municipalities, many of whom are now on their knees to fulfil their mission in terms of education, health and care, would have been much better equipped for a forthcoming recession. Even the finance minister's space had been completely different, as tax revenues had been higher and grant expenditure lower – rather simple mathematics. What other countries have succeeded in, Madam President, with which this government has failed, is above all to reduce unemployment among foreign born people. In Sweden, the corresponding group remains on a high level of unemployment, while the group itself has grown. We also see that long-term unemployment is increasing, not decreasing, not least among women born abroad. Both the Minister for Finance and I know that economic downturns are primarily hitting those who are weakest in the labour market. Despite a lengthy boom, the government has not succeeded in strengthening their role. The boats have passed by, and these have remained on the quay. Countries such as Germany and the United Kingdom have reached significantly lower levels of exclusion. Substantial structural reforms have been implemented instead of a steering year. Can we in Sweden also look forward to fundamental structural reforms instead of wishful thinking in the form of steering oars – reforms that actually lead to people having a job to join and contribute instead of going on subsidies?
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-130	Madam President, the Minister for Finance. First of all, I would like to give a correct statement of reality. Let us look back at the recent Swedish economic history. In the years of the Alliance we had structural savings in the first year 1.9 percent, in the second year 2.3 percent, then 1.7 percent; 1.4; 1.0; 0.2; minus 0.7 and minus 0.6 percent. This results in a combined result of 0.9 or about 1 per cent, that is, precisely in accordance with the surplus target which was then set to apply in the country. The Minister of Finance, on the other hand, has had structural savings of minus 0.4; 0.3; 0.5 and minus 0.2 per cent. This gives an average of approximately 0 or 0.05 per cent, according to Konjunkturinstitutet, i.e. a very strong deviation from the ramparts that we have jointly decided to have for the Swedish economy. It now makes Sweden more vulnerable than we should be, it makes it much more difficult to deal with economic downturns and it deepens the concerns that exist around very many of the serious societal problems that we now see. With this correction of the Minister for Finance's very doubtful statement on the state of public savings, I would like to repeat my question to the Minister for Finance. If we are the fifth last in the European Union in terms of unemployment, if we are the second last in terms of GDP-per-capita development and if we are far from achieving the surplus target – so we are in a bad position in terms of employment, we are the second worst in terms of growth and the Finance Minister himself has wanted to abolish the most important governance of public finances – my question is to the texting Finance Minister: What are we really steering Swedish public finances towards?
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-134	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance is not texting but checking the financial plans of the previous year to see what figures we have for structural savings. I would be happy to come back to that in a debate with Niklas Wykman in the future. However, there is a big difference between the situation when I entered the Ministry of Finance and the situation when the Moderates entered the Ministry of Finance. When the Moderates entered 2006 they inherited very large surpluses from the then present Social Democratic government. When I entered the Ministry of Finance, I inherited very large budget deficits from the then sitting moderate-led government. It was, moreover, the third time in modern Swedish economic policy history that we Social Democrats took over government power after bourgeois governments, and all three times they left behind very large deficits in public finances, so this time too. At the end of the last parliamentary term, we steered fiscal policy with the knowledge that we are about to change the surplus target to one third of GDP. I felt already when I started the process that a balance goal had been better. It is a position that I stand by, and I can note that an increasing number of debaters are backing that position, including, for example, the Moderate who leads Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils. This does not mean that you would not have a steering age but that you would just steer towards another goal. The surplus target was introduced to ensure that we reduce public debt up to the point where demographic change occurs that the 40s will reach the age of 80 and will then be much more health-intensive. That's exactly the situation we're in right now. We have a low public debt, and the big 40-thousands are going up over 80 years. That is, of course, when we should use the space that we have created in recent years. That was my view in 2015, and that is still my view. This does not mean that you do not have a steering year but that you have another steering year. Helena Bouveng called for structural reforms to make more people work. Here, during the last parliamentary term, the government has implemented important structural reforms and will, of course, continue to do so during this parliamentary term. For example, we have abolished the custody allowance introduced by the moderate-led government, we have changed parental insurance so that newly arrived women get into work more quickly and we introduced extra services that are widely used by newly arrived women as it is a first important step into the labour market for them. These are measures that have been effective. We saw a marked increase in the participation and employment rates of women born abroad. This was the group that grew fastest during the last parliamentary term. We want to continue this work during this term of office, when we want, among other things, to introduce start-up jobs – an intensive year when you come to Sweden – but also other reforms in order for more new arrivals to come to work. I also note a great interest in the Moderates for the Social Democracy's unemployment case. We are talking about all the amazing effects that would have occurred if that goal had been met. In this case, it is based on the effect that labour force participation had remained at the same level as today, because it would also have been possible to envisage a lower participation rate, and the effects would not have been the same. But I can note that we have exceeded the objective of the Alliance Government. If we had just reached the objective of the alliance government for the last parliamentary term, there would have been 100 000 fewer people employed than it is today.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-140	Mr President, I would like to Welcome to the debate on steering oars! It was amazing to hear the Minister of Finance talking about his major structural reforms during the last term of office regarding extra services and emergency work. That's not really what made people get jobs to go to. Reforms that are now before us are reforms that are free and another family week. I find it difficult to see how this will lead to a fall in unemployment. Mr President, I would like to In the European political party leader debate last week, we heard Prime Minister Stefan Löfven talking about gross unemployment. I admit it was probably a Freudian error, but still. I can see that, whether it is serious crime or serious unemployment, the proposals from the January agreement are few in order to address these challenges. If you're going to be nice, you can at best describe it as a boat bumping on. Mr President, I would like to The steering oar was the rudder of the ancients and Vikings. In Frans G. Bengtsson's classic Red Orm makes the Orm, Toke and Rapp the one-eyed just nothing but standing by the steering oar. Is it precisely this classic that is currently on the Minister of Finance's nightstand?
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-144	Mr President, I would like to Now I have Googled clearly, and at least in the budget I get up, the structural deficit in 2014 was minus 1.2% of GDP. It is possible that there are other figures from recent times – this was from the 2016 budget bill – that are more updated. But at least what I found here was different from what Niklas Wykman found earlier. Employment needs to continue to increase, but I also want the participation rate to continue to increase. It is important that more women, not least immigrant women, enter the labour market. The government's policy here has obviously been very successful, because we see that there is a significant increase in the participation of women born abroad in particular. The employment rate is also increasing among women born abroad. I note that labour force participation has increased faster than employment, and this means that unemployment has not fallen back in the same way it would have if it had not increased substantially. Several of the reforms introduced by the government during the last parliamentary term were created precisely with the aim of increasing labour force participation, but it is clear that it affects unemployment so that it does not fall back as it has done in the past. This year, however, it is difficult to ignore the fact that Moderate policies affect the number of people enrolled in the Public Employment Service, since fewer people get the opportunity to participate in extra services, for example, which is a tool that is appreciated not only by the unemployed but also by both staff and users in the care of the elderly, where it is used extensively. 300 000 more in work compared to when Stefan Löfven took office as Prime Minister – is it a failure or the result of a successful policy? Of course, it is up to the audience and the spectator to philosophize over this, but it is clear that really dark hue that the Moderates paint this in, I am not inclined to use, although I like to see even more at work.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-149	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg has asked me what measures I intend to take to mitigate the effects of a forthcoming recession, which my advice is to municipalities that are unable to fulfil their welfare commitment due to escalating costs of financial assistance and what measures I intend to take to ensure that the municipalities handle this financially. Boriana Åberg has also asked me if I am prepared to make the necessary decisions to ensure that Sweden does not receive more refugees than we can integrate. After a few years of high growth, we now see a slowdown in the economy, both in Sweden and in the world. If the economy were to develop even worse and we were going into a recession, Sweden would be well equipped. With the help of strong public finances, we can both face a possible recession and pursue a policy of solving societal problems. In the budget proposal for 2020, the Government proposes a number of initiatives in the labour market area that will benefit both the Swedish economy and the population, regardless of economic trends. A high employment rate is a prerequisite for the financing of municipal activities. For the individual, work is the most important prerequisite for self-sufficiency. A job is also the most important prerequisite for new arrivals to be established in Swedish society. The historically high levels of employment in recent years are thus a good basis for both the establishment of newcomers and the financing of the local government sector. The government prioritises welfare. Historical efforts were made during the last parliamentary term, and during this parliamentary term we have announced that welfare will continue to be strengthened. In order to establish a long-term sustainable regime for Sweden, the Government has decided to commission a parliamentary committee to investigate the future Swedish migration policy. Among other things, the Committee will highlight issues related to residence permits and supply requirements.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-154	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is both fascinating and shocking that such an indecent response can be allowed to leave the Ministry of Finance. I assume that the Minister will have a serious conversation with the staff member who has been instrumental in writing the reply. This text does not even answer my questions to any extent. Instead, it is teeming with axiom, that is, self-evident statements whose truth is beyond question. For example, a high employment rate is a prerequisite for the financing of municipal activities. That is the case, but what is the government doing to increase the employment rate? The unemployment situation of newcomers is particularly serious now that the two years of start-up benefits are over. For the vast majority, there will be financial assistance in the social services. Many municipalities feel that the state is fleeing its responsibility for the refugee crisis in 2015 and is leaving them in the lurch, with major economic problems and integration problems. Has the Minister of Finance visited Filipstad, where 2 000 out of 10 000 people have an overseas background? Of the adults in the group, 80% are unemployed and another 10% are covered by labour market policy measures. These people should have housing, food on the table, clothing, community services. The equation does not go together if they do not get into work – that is, real work and not fictional pursuits that do not lead to employment. Philipstad is far from alone. Some ninety municipalities are at risk of economic deficit this year, and SKL sees no improvement in at least a decade. In his reply, the Minister also says: a job is also the most important prerequisite for new arrivals to be established in Swedish society. After all, this is an undeniable truth. It is not possible to stress enough how important it is for each individual, new arrivals or not, to have a job to go to, a salary to support yourself and your family at, workmates, contexts, belongings. But what does the government do to ensure that all these new arrivals have their own livelihood? Are any reforms planned to make working more attractive than living on benefits? No. You shut down Arbetsförmedlingen. Not that it provided very many jobs or did not need to be reformed, but closing it without an idea of what to replace it with is very irresponsible. This is another example of how the January agreement locks the government into a cooperation that makes necessary reforms impossible. It is the country's municipalities that will ultimately stand with black elephants in their hands. I would therefore like to repeat my question: what is the Council of Ministers of the municipalities that will collapse because of the enormous cost of financial assistance? The Minister also replied that the government prioritises welfare. I don't understand what the Minister means by that. The introduction of a family week and a free year is not a priority for welfare. It is to make sure that healthy, able-bodied people work less.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-164	Mr President, I would like to This is another important discussion in the Swedish Parliament about some of Sweden's urgent problems. Unfortunately, it does not escape anyone who follows the news that Sweden has serious problems – challenges you might call them if you are in a good mood. We need more resources for the police and the defense. There is definitely a need for resources in welfare, for the ageing population and so on. This is, of course, the Minister for Finance and all those who are in some initial way engaged in politics aware of it. When there is a need for more resources somewhere, Mr President, less resources must be used elsewhere. The best savings that can be made in public finances is to get someone who is currently dependent on subsidies to contribute instead through labour and tax payments. That's why the work line is so central. Boriana Åberg's interpellation captures just this: How will the municipalities be equipped not to succumb financially because of the cost of support? It is in the cost of supply aid that Sweden's great and deep exclusion is evident. What was actually meant to be handled through unemployment funds or other systems is now to be handled by municipalities, and one has to ask how equipped they are to face the reality that exists. As the Minister for Finance is of course aware, there are municipalities that stand out. My municipality of residence Solna, for example, has Sweden's best integration and very low unemployment, precisely because it has a tight grant policy and an active work line. Växjö and other municipalities have also changed and are working to manage integration in a good way. The question, however, is what it looks like in large municipalities where the Social Democrats are responsible. Mr President, I would like to My question will end in whether the Minister for Finance is prepared to legislate on the need for municipalities to make demands for compensatory payments for those applying for grants. It helps everywhere to have quid pro quo. It equips people more for the labour market, makes people less likely to apply for benefits, shortens the grant period and accelerates the return to self-sufficiency for those who have fallen outside. Malmö, which is the major project of the Social Democrats and the largest city in Sweden, has SEK 1 billion in social assistance costs. It is about one tenth of all supply aid costs throughout Sweden. The Social Democrats in Malmö have also taken active decisions to pay support to people who are hiding in the country and are not entitled to any part of Swedish welfare – a very active benefit policy instead of an active work line. This has contributed to huge social problems in Malmö. For example, unemployment is 14%, and 10,000 households live on subsistence support. The worst thing, however, is what this type of exclusion, uncontrolled migration, non-functioning integration and the active subsidy policy pursued by the party of the Minister for Finance ultimately have to do with the consequences. Therefore, Mr President, my question to the Minister for Finance is whether she could join the Moderates' demand that we have legislation that not only enables the municipalities to make demands, but is actually clear that they should make demands for compensation in order to grant some form of supply aid. In this way more people can get into work instead of it being like in Malmö even in the rest of Sweden.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-172	Mr President, I would like to Many municipalities in the country have a tough economic situation. The big change in the coming years is that the number of people over 80 will increase significantly. This is because the 40th-century litters, which are now over 80 years old, are very large. At the same time, the 90-talists who are now in childbearing age are also a large generation. This means that municipalities will have many more older and more children in the future. This will, of course, increase costs. But of course it's good that we live longer, and it's fun that we have many children. On the other hand, the forecast for the future does not show that support for supply will increase and be a large part of the increased costs for municipalities. They are estimated to increase relatively marginally in the coming years. This does not prevent supply aid from increasing in individual municipalities. I have close contact with several municipalities that have a tough financial situation precisely because the supply support is increasing. In the government budget, we have also introduced special support for vulnerable municipalities that have received many new arrivals. In addition, we have the special support from Delmos, which goes to socio-economically more vulnerable municipalities to support them in various integration measures. If I am not mistaken, the Moderates did not think it was a good proposal but that the Parliament should reject it. In addition, we have redeployed the support for the school and introduced a large equality grant, precisely to better support the schools that face the toughest challenges. One difference in Sweden compared to many other countries is that we have had quite little redistributive resources in school. In addition, the government is taking a wide range of measures to ensure that more new arrivals come to work. As I said, the employment rate of women and men born abroad increased during the last parliamentary term. Of the 300 000 jobs created, 100,000 went to people with foreign background. Not least, both the employment rate and the participation rate of foreign-born women increased, partly because we abolished the custody allowance, which had been introduced by the moderate-led government. We renewed parental insurance and also increased educational efforts. Of course, we want to continue during this term of office and introduce, among other things, start-up jobs. We're putting in place an initial deduction. We are introducing an intensive year and increasing social orientation. We have social information and Swedish from day one. We want parents' leave to be given the opportunity to learn Swedish. We want language requirements for citizenship. We are changing EBO, something that is important for many municipalities, including Malmö. There is therefore a wide range of measures in the January agreement to increase the integration of new arrivals and to bring more people to work. In addition, we conduct a concrete policy to support the municipalities.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-179	Mr President, I would like to The problems in Sweden's municipalities are not due to the increase in the number of 80-year-olds or the increase in the number of children. They are due to the increase in the number of people who do not enter the labour market and who actually have no chance of ever getting out on it, because they are illiterate, for example. That's something you have to do something about. Among other things, uncontrolled migration must be tightened up. It leads not only to supply problems but also to a variety of other problems, such as criminality and lack of integration. In many respects, the lack of discussion about the economy in the debate is due to the fact that all the effort is being put into discussing the lack of security of, for example, the inhabitants of Malmö. I take the Minister's reply as saying that there is no very good readiness to face the coming recession. The Minister has no strong message for the crowded municipalities. Of course, taking the necessary decisions to reduce the reception of refugees to a level that our country is able to integrate is not under any circumstances relevant to the government of the Green Party. This is an important message to the Swedish people from our finance minister. In his reply, the Minister of Finance referred to the parliamentary inquiry into the future Swedish migration policy. The government says it wants to establish a long-term sustainable order for Sweden – in theory. In practice, this government has already undermined the intention of sustainable migration policy by means of a series of ill-thought-out decisions: the so-called High School Act and the law that facilitates family migration without the need for livelihoods. Now there are also demands for a general amnesty for those who do not meet the requirements for the secondary school law and are in Sweden. I just wonder: what kind of signals does the Minister think this is sending out into the world? Is it that Sweden has a responsible and restrictive migration policy, or is it the other way around that only once you have come here you can stay, whether you have asylum reasons or not? Let's look at the guidelines for the investigation. There are questions such as: Should we have permanent or temporary residence permits? Is a new humanitarian protection base to be established? And will it be possible to enter the country on illegal grounds and be protected? It does not look as if the client wants a restrictive and responsible migration policy. Nothing suggests that the parliamentary committee will succeed this time either, and, as usual, it will be Sweden's municipalities that will have to bear the consequences and will need help. What can the Minister of Finance do about it?
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-184	Mr President, I would like to Developments in Sweden are so serious that there should be a willingness to look up from the January agreement and look for broader or at least better political arrangements to solve the problems that exist. The Swedish people's concern that Sweden will develop in the same way as Malmö, for example, is both widespread and justified. Malmö has SEK 1 billion in social assistance costs. Approximately one tenth of the total cost of supply aid throughout Sweden is paid out in Malmö. There is 14% unemployment, and 10 000 households depend on support in some form. It is a development that is very worrying and that the Social Democrats have realised in Malmö, which would basically have absolutely fantastic conditions to become an example instead of the very troubled city that we are now seeing. Mr President, I would like to My question to the Minister for Finance remains: can the Minister of Finance consider a national compensation requirement for receiving supply aid? That is to say, all the municipalities in the country need to provide an active work line and not just passive grant payments, which take place far too often, with Malmö as perhaps the main example. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, approximately 70 municipalities pay more than SEK 1 000 per inhabitant in support of livelihoods. 60 of these – six out of seven municipalities – are governed by Social Democrats. When the Minister of Finance has answered the question of whether she is prepared for a national line towards irresponsible grant payments and that we should have demands for compensation, she can go home and think about why six out of seven municipalities that pay out so much subsidies are social democraticly governed.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-188	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg devotes herself to putting words in my mouth. I'd be happy to avoid it. It is a common and rather cheap debate which we may not have to devote ourselves to in Parliament's pulpit. Boriana Åberg believes that we should tighten up uncontrolled migration. Then I can tell you that in 2015 the government redesigned the migration policy that we inherited from the Moderates. Since then, migration flows to Sweden have been quite different. The government is working hard to ensure that we can have a more reasonable system within the EU. Do we have preparations for recession? Yes, much of what I devoted time and effort to in the last parliamentary term was precisely to pick up from the large public finance deficits that we inherited from the Moderates, precisely so that, on the day of the turn of the economic cycle, we could have the strength and the strength to stimulate the economy so as not to suffer an excessive or prolonged recession if the economy were to turn down deeper than the forecasters now say. Niklas Wykman calls for broader political settlements. It's interesting considering that the Moderates chose to drop out of the conversations we had about gang violence, shootings and crime. Then it came from the talks anyway a long list of measures that the government is now working to implement. I can only regret that, at this point, the Moderates, who are serious, as Niklas Wykman points out, chose to take political action rather than to cooperate for the good of Sweden.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-192	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry if the Minister of Finance thinks I misquoted her. The quotes I have used are from the written answer I have received. Perhaps the policy of migration pursued by the Moderates during their second reign was not the most responsible. But labour market policy, with the possibility of moving people from welfare dependency to self-sufficiency, is the best labour market policy that has ever been pursued in this country. The job tax deduction allowed people with low incomes to move from dependency and exclusion to self-employment, self-sufficiency, pride and the opportunity to develop. They then had the opportunity to school their children in everyday life, which is about getting up, going to work, having co-workers and developing their language by speaking Swedish at their workplace. All of this is missing today in Malmö. Why? Because the contributions are regarded as an equal livelihood and because the Social Democratic government encourages this. People are viewed as victims, as some who need to be cared for. Grants are stacked on grants. It is completely impossible for a person without a higher education to make a living on his own. That is the direction we must pursue politics. I hope that the Minister for Finance will do something about this.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-195	Mr President, I would like to I can only regret that Boriana Åberg is lying about the Social Democrats in Malmö about their view of people who need support. The image that Boriana Åberg gives of Social Democrats in Malmö is simply wrong. It is sad to have to hear such lies in the Parliament's pulpit. It's the other way around. When I talk to leading Social Democratic politicians in Malmö, they see that there is a lot of power and potential in people who live in Malmö and that more tools are needed to use that power. Among other things, it is about improving Swedish teaching, providing early Swedish education and having better opportunities for education. But it is also about labour market policy efforts for all the people who are newly arrived and who live in Malmö. Malmö politicians do not see these people as victims, as Boriana Åberg claimed in the pulpit. However, it is believed that many tools are needed to enable people to use and develop the knowledge, skills and power they have and thus contribute to society. In Malmö, they are also very keen that there should be a change in EBO legislation. I'm very glad the government can make a change. This means that Malmö will reasonably have better opportunities than before to integrate the people who currently live in Malmö. I share Boriana Åberg's view that work is the basis of integration and that it means a great deal to people – not only to the individual, but to the whole family, the whole family and sometimes an entire residential area – that the employment rate is raised. It is good that we have the same ambition. Then we may have a slightly different view of the means to be used. I find it sad about the massive dismantling of the Employment Service by the Moderates in labour market policy in this year's budget. It is clear that there are consequences, not least for Malmö. That's what the politicians in Malmö say to me.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-201	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schulte has asked me whether I agree with the conclusions of the budget proposal regarding the possible effects of abolishing the so-called defence tax and whether I believe that similar effects can be achieved by other tax cuts on labour. The government has proposed the abolition of the upper layer of state income tax in accordance with the substantive agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. As is customary, the budget proposal sets out the effects of the proposal on employment and hours worked. The effects reported are primarily external assessors' estimates and calculations. As is also stated, these assessments are subject to very high uncertainties and are gradually occurring over a long period of time after the implementation of the reform. At the same time, the proposal has a poor distribution profile and a negative impact on economic equality and, as Fredrik Schulte himself points out, it is also assessed that it has a negligible impact on employment and unemployment. However, the Government intends to follow the long-term effects of the reform.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-203	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, Sweden is not doing so well. Our economy stands still. We have the second lowest or lowest growth in the whole of Europe. Long-term unemployment is increasing. Those furthest from the labour market find it increasingly difficult to get a chance to make their own living, get into work, become part of the community and contribute to our well-being and prosperity. In the run-up to the 2014 elections, the Social Democrats had a promise as their slogan that we would have Europe's lowest unemployment. Perhaps it was not Europe's highest unemployment rate, but it was the worst effort. This government has, as it were, been the worst in the EU to change its unemployment rate. We can see how municipalities in several parts of the country are kneeling in terms of the economy – we have heard about this in previous debates. We see how the care queues have doubled and continue to increase. It is a problem that we thought we had solved during the time of the Reinfeldt Government, but it is now on its way back. We also see an increase in CO2 emissions. Sweden is thus getting worse at meeting the global challenge with this government. Then, Mr President, I have not even begun to sneeze into the situation of gang violence, killings, explosions and so on. I am not going to do that either, because the Swedish people know the situation here. I think there are very few people in Sweden who would say with their hands on their hearts that Sweden has become a better country between 2014 and 2019. I do not even think that Magdalena Andersson could stand here in the speaker's chair and honestly say that Sweden has improved during her time in power. Perhaps Stefan Löfven could say so, but I don't think Magdalena Andersson would. Magdalena Andersson has during this time reduced public savings. She has reduced the surplus target to one third of what it used to be, which means that we are less equipped for a forthcoming recession. You send the check to today's kids. The Social Democrats are moving down to 20% in the polls. It looks rather bleak, and I think there are few who can point to light sparkles. But there is actually one thing that is positive and for which I would like to commend Magdalena Andersson, and that is that she proposes in her budget to remove the defence tax. It's classic moderate politics. This is positive for two reasons. First of all, it is positive because it leads to more hours worked. According to Magdalena Andersson own budget proposal, the estimation is that it will lead to 7 000 more hours worked. There are therefore more people who will stay longer at work when they no longer have to pay such high marginal taxes. A doctor may not think today that it is worth working that extra hour because he or she gets to keep less than 50 percent. Now that person gets a little stronger incentive to actually do it. There will be more hours worked, and this will lead to increased prosperity. But above all, if you're going to put it in a slightly bigger perspective, I think it's very good because this is a conflict that Moderates and Social Democrats have had for more than 100 years. It is about: How do you build a strong welfare society? How do you build a rich society that can afford good welfare? Me and the Moderates have always said that putting great yokes of taxes and regulations on people who work hard, on companies and on entrepreneurs leads to a poorer welfare society. The Social Democrats have said: No, let us tax people as much as we can. Now we see how Magdalena Andersson pursues a classic moderate policy and in her budget admits that reduced taxes lead to more hours worked. It is very gratifying that we at least have the little sparkle of light in the otherwise very gloomy Sweden.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-212	Mr President, I would like to Tax policy in one country is of course very important for the whole country for many and easily understood reasons, partly because it finances what is common, and partly because tax policy controls people's behaviour and opportunities, from how much it pays to work to how much it costs to litter or destroy our nature. Tax policy is therefore crucial. It is therefore gratifying that, year after year, the government has weakened the accounting of the budget proposals so that it can no longer follow the estimated impact of various reforms, in its wording, it is clear that the abolition of the defence tax has no negative effects on public finances, simply because people are expected to work more hours. Mr President, I would like to This leads me to ask the Minister for Finance a few questions about how she views tax policy in general. Then I don't think about things that almost ridicule the discussion, such as having a lot of small taxes that another small party appreciates very much but that create a lot of hassle, have very low impact and are condemned by all the parties involved. Instead, I am thinking of what is at the heart of income taxation, for example. Why do we still have the downscaling of the employment tax deduction when, according to the Minister of Finance, it is costless or free to some extent for public finances to remove the military tax? Why, then, does the Minister of Finance choose to retain a military tax of 3 percent over SEK 50,000? For what reason is it still there when it adds nothing to Sweden? Another issue, Mr President, concerns the second part of the distribution of income, namely those who have the lowest incomes or who are potentially able to get a job with a low income. The European Commission is now sending very strong recommendations to Sweden to reduce tax and in some way extend the tax credit or make it stronger and stronger for those on the verge of entering the labour market and today find it difficult to get a job. I wonder a little bit how the Minister for Finance takes a position on the European Commission's recommendations to Sweden to make more jobs profitable by expanding something that corresponds to the job tax credit. It is very gratifying that the Finance Minister carefully reported in the budget bill that tax incentives or incentives to work and to make an effort play a role, for example by showing that the abolition of the defence tax apparently has no negative impact on public finances. Similarly, it is gratifying that in all his years as Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance has not dared to touch job tax deductions at all, possibly because the Minister of Finance also makes the assessment that, for example, LO makes the job tax deduction very job creation. Mr President, I would like to How does the Minister of Finance view these two issues in concrete terms? The first, i.e. the reduction of the employment tax credit, should, according to the Finance Minister's own assessment in the budget, be eliminated without any negative consequences for public finances. So removing it would increase the hours worked in the economy in such a way that it would go plus minus zero. So it is a completely unnecessary tax to have. The second concerns the European Commission's recommendation to Sweden to extend the job tax credit in some way for those with the lowest income so that more people can get into work and Sweden gathered will be able to break at least part of the very large and deep exclusion that now exists.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-222	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the external assessors who believe that the abolition of the defence tax may be self-financing, it is also clear that it is impact calculations that are very uncertain. The assessment is that this will happen for a long time, if at all, so it is a very great uncertainty that surrounds this. After all, it is not the case that anyone who has an income so high that they pay military tax from 1 January next year will immediately start working so much more that it compensates for the tax loss. Members of Parliament, for example, need not only to work more but also to raise their income in order to compensate for the tax loss caused by the abolition of the military tax. What is clear, however, and as we know, is the negative consequences, and they come immediately: greater economic inequality and a cost to the state budget. That is why I have also made it clear that this is in no way my favorite reform. It is also for this reason that I would not propose or pursue the abolition of the cut-off of the job tax credit, which means that there will be no job tax deduction in the case of millions of income. The possible effects on labour supply in the form of more hours worked are uncertain and take place over a long period of time, whereas the negative effects of costs on the state budget and increased economic inequality are, on the other hand, safe and immediate. When it comes to more people bordering on the labour market getting into work, there are many different measures that you can work with. Of course, we are looking at the recommendations made by the Commission. There are many different ways of working here. One way that has been successful during the last term of office is, among other things, the labour market policy efforts that have been made, such as extra services that have been a tool for getting, not least, foreign-born women to work. I can only regret the fact that these and other subsidised jobs that existed in the past have been severely cut by the moderate budget. If you look at what has happened during the months of the year when moderate labour market policies applied in Sweden, you can see that the number of people enrolled in the Employment Service has increased by 20 000, while subsidised employment has decreased by 15 000. It is therefore almost communicating vessels – a little too communicating for it to be just a coincidence.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-228	Mr President, I would like to I feel that I was perhaps a little gloomy in my first speech and would therefore like to clarify that I really want to thank Magdalena Andersson from the bottom of my heart for her now for this policy and taking away the defense tax. As I was aware, there are many problems in Sweden: gang violence, increasing CO2 emissions, doubling care queues, stagnating economy and so on. But this little sparkle of light is very positive, and that leads to increased prosperity I am very happy for. Thank you from the bottom of my heart, Magdalena Andersson, for dedicating you to remove the defense tax and in that respect to conduct a classic moderate policy! Given the gloomy development that I was discussing, it must still be difficult to be a social democrat in Sweden today. Few people say that Sweden is better today than it was five years ago. It must be very confusing for the Socialist electorate. We now see in opinion polls that the Social Democrats are moving down to 20%. It is a road that many of the social democrats' sister parties have walked around Europe. For more than 100 years, people have been talking about class struggles, how rich are to be put against the poor and that's how you build a strong society. The fact that the Social Democrats are now at the forefront of classical moderate politics must make those voters who have always voted for the Social Democrats feel very confused. In addition to the fact that Sweden has become clearly worse in a variety of respects, even the Social Democrats have lost the heart of their own politics. But as I said, as a moderate, I am very grateful for this and would like to continue to ask a question. If it is the case, Magdalena Andersson, that we agree that the removal of the military tax leads to more hours worked and higher hours, as Magdalena Andersson himself says in her budget, why not continue? The Moderates, for example, want to step down government income tax from 20% to 17% in the first step and hope that we will have the power in the next term to reduce it to 15%. As with the effect of removing the defense tax, it makes it more attractive to work more hours. More people are investing in their careers, and more are taking a promotion rather than giving priority to leisure or family life because it is simply not worthwhile doing a wage career. More people will invest in entrepreneurship and start up businesses, thus allowing the economy to grow. I would like to ask Magdalena Andersson the following. If more hours worked and higher GDP have the positive effect on the economy, that is, more money for welfare, why does she not want to continue along the same lines and lower taxes, let the economy grow and thus get more money for welfare? That is the conclusion she herself comes up with in the budget.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-236	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes you meet environmental parties who are not satisfied with their impact in government cooperation. They feel that they have not heard their policies. But now that Sweden, according to the EU's own estimates, has the lowest economic growth – close to zero – it must be said that the classic environmental-partisan policy of zero growth has had a strong impact in Swedish society. Now we are the worst at growth throughout the European Union. It can hardly be better out of a classic environmental-partisan definition. However, for a Socialist Minister of Finance who wants resources to be allocated to health care, the police and people who themselves find it difficult to arrange for their own livelihoods, low growth is a very big problem. This means that everything that is to be added somewhere must be taken – just as much – from somewhere else. It is difficult to pursue an active equalisation policy under these conditions. My personal conviction, and it has strong support in shelves of research, is that the best thing you can do for a society that wants to stick together and come together, that wants to fight crime, contradictions, anxiety and insecurity, is to let all people get a job and to let all people get a good school. People who have gone to school and have jobs are rarely a burden on other people in society, while those who do not pass school or who remain long-term in exclusion and unemployment always have a risk of suffering from various social problems, sometimes those who also go out on other people. It's a logic, and it's connected. And that is why it is so vital for a society to combat class differences and social injustices. It's best done by people getting a job. Therefore, I wonder whether Magdalena Andersson is prepared to follow the recommendations of the European Commission to make more jobs profitable by expanding something that corresponds to the job tax deduction for those with the lowest income.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-241	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we are always looking at the recommendations of the European Commission. They could be interesting. Some suggestions may be more interesting, and other suggestions may be less interesting. But we never follow the recommendations of the European Commission slavishly. Nor do the Moderates tend to advocate the reintroduction of property tax, for example, and the abolition of interest rebates, which are recommendations that always come from the European Commission. Fredrik Schultes's question was similar to that of Niklas Wykman in his previous speech. The question is why we do not go further and lower the tax even more for people with high incomes. My explanation is the same as the one I gave to Niklas Wykman, namely, firstly, that the estimates that this would be self-financed are very uncertain and, secondly, that the assessment is that they occur for a long time. This means that next year we will have around 6 billion less in the Treasury than it would otherwise have been. It is money that could have gone to other businesses. If you go further and further lower the tax for those with the highest income or lower the state income tax, it is clear that the next financial year is a matter of money that does not go to welfare. Instead, they go to them with the highest income by means of job tax reductions. We Social Democrats have pushed this issue. I think Fredrik Schulte is alone in Sweden to perceive that I would be particularly dedicated to doing this.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-245	Mr President, I would like to I find Magdalena Andersson's answer interesting. This issue has been debated by Moderates and Social Democrats for more than 100 years, that is, how we build a strong society that is rich and has money to spare for welfare. The Moderates have said that we must build prosperity in the long term. We must ensure that we encourage entrepreneurship, work and entrepreneurship. The Social Democrats, on the other hand, have said that high taxes here and now will give a lot of money to welfare. Magdalena Andersson now admits that the long-term effects of having lower taxes are greater prosperity, but that can mean that you here and now do not have the resources you want. Let me make it clear; it'll be like peeing in bed. It feels good at first, but in the long term it is not a smart solution to the problems. That is the difference between the views of the Social Democrats and the Moderates on how to build a strong society in the long term. With the help of high taxes and regulations, hitting companies and those who work hard to then counter with high contributions does not provide a long-term strong economic development. That is why, after five years of Social Democratic rule, Sweden has Europe's worst growth. The promise of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU became a flop, and it has turned out that this government has been the worst in the EU to change its unemployment rate. To conduct a policy that makes it profitable to work or run a business means that we will have more resources in the long term. Nevertheless, it is gratifying that the Social Democrats now acknowledge that after 100 years they have actually been wrong on this point.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-250	Mr President, I would like to Surely we know that Moderates and Social Democrats have different views on society, and we know that no matter what question is asked, the Moderates always have the same answer, namely reduced taxes. That is how politics has been pursued all the times it has been possible. We were able to see how during the previous term of office the tax was reduced by SEK 140 billion and left behind major gaps in public finances, lower employment and higher unemployment than when it took office. We saw how the Moderates for this year reduced the tax by SEK 20 billion and made a powerful dismantling of the Employment Service with the result that we now see that the number of enrolled in the Employment Service is increasing at about the same rate as the dismantling of labour market policy carried out by the Moderates. It is clear what moderate policy is, i.e. reduced taxes, eroded welfare, more unemployed and broken public finances. Three times out of three possible are the result of a moderate government. What we have done in the last parliamentary term and continue to work on this parliamentary term is, of course, to keep public finances in order. We are making strong efforts in the budget to tackle crime and crime. Historically, we are giving the biggest addition to the police in modern times, and we are strengthening the entire judiciary: the Public Prosecutor's Office, the courts, the Prison Service, the Coast Guard, the National Board of Forensic Medicine and the Swedish Enforcement Authority. We are increasing resources for municipalities and county councils, we are strengthening the opportunities for education for people who lack work and we are making record investments in climate change again – to name a few things. Thanks to a responsible economic policy, we have the opportunity to meet the slowdown in the economic cycle with an active policy and with a stable cooperation in the Swedish parliament.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-256	Mr President, I would like to Carl-Carl-Os k ar Bohlin has asked me if I have any plan to counteract the negative effects that the amortisation requirement has put on new construction, how to counteract the negative trend in new construction and why the investment aid is reintroduced in the case of leases – something that, according to him, is both expensive and inefficient. Initially, I would like to emphasise that housing construction is an important issue for the government. Sweden has a high level of residential construction, although the number of dwellings started is expected to decrease slightly this year. In 2019 approximately 49,000 dwellings will be started according to the Government's forecast. This compares with the fact that housing construction has been at levels of some 30 000 dwellings per year since 1990. Regarding the amortisation requirements, Finansinspektionen has concluded that these have contributed to new mortgage holders now amortising more, borrowing less and buying cheaper housing. However, Finansinspektionen's mortgage surveys also show that the age group of 18 to 30-year-olds' share of new mortgages has remained stable at around 20 per cent since 2016. In 2012, the share of 18 to 30-year-olds was 10 per cent of new mortgages. Overall, macroprudential measures have strengthened household resilience and contributed to a healthier amortisation culture. In a scenario of a sharp economic downturn and price depression on the housing market, household resilience is a fundamental part of the capacity for recovery both in terms of the economy as a whole and for the housing market as a whole. For a long time, Swedish housing policy is based on the fact that the state and the municipality have a shared responsibility. The state is responsible for ensuring that legal and financial instruments are available for housing construction, while municipalities are responsible for planning and implementing powers. For several years, Regeringen has implemented a number of changes in the planning and construction regulations to give municipalities and companies better conditions for building more housing in Sweden. The government intends to continue work on regulatory simplification. In order to promote competition in the construction sector, the Government appointed a special investigator in June 2019. He will also provide a basis for public procurement of residential buildings with fixed rental levels and investigate how the actions of municipalities affect the ability of companies to build housing across the country. The Government does not share the view that investment support for rental and housing for students is an inefficient measure. The investment support aims to increase the range of rental housing with relatively lower rents that more households have the opportunity to demand. The fact that more than 26 000 homes have been granted aid is rather a sign of the opposite – that the aid is an effective measure. According to Boverket, the number of tenancy units started to fall slightly this year, but rental apartments still account for almost half of the multi-residential buildings built around the country. Boverket also believes that the decrease in rental rights is mainly due to the uncertainty about the investment support that arose from the Parliament's decision on the State's budget for 2019. In accordance with the January Agreement, investment aid must remain in place to stimulate increased housing construction throughout the country. The agreement also provides for a comprehensive tax reform aimed, inter alia, at improving the functioning of the housing market. Such a review may provide an opportunity to create better conditions for the housing market. In addition, the interest on the amount of the deferral shall be removed. Overall, the government contributes with reforms to facilitate housing construction throughout the country.
i-E5hXvNPZHHSmGYUAk4MWti	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is an urgent matter for Sweden because if the housing sector does not function and does well, it risks reinforcing a future economic downturn. The obvious question to the Government after this report and in the light of the cyclicalometer presented by the Swedish Construction Industries is whether the government is prepared to look at the issue of the mortgage ceiling. Evaluations show that when the ceiling on mortgages was lowered from 90 to 85 per cent in 2010, the share of mortgage loans to young first-time buyers in the housing market was halved. In other words, it was a measure that directly affected the functioning of the housing market for young people. This is, of course, very serious. The Moderates have recently launched the proposal to raise the mortgage ceiling to 90% in order to make it easier for young people to enter the housing market. It would be interesting to hear what the Minister of Housing thinks of that proposal. It is, I think, quite spectacular that the government is trying, as it were, to market two positions at the same time in terms of investment aid. On the one hand, we have the Government's response in this House today. The Government believes that the investment support – which has been condemned by the Swedish National Audit Office – was not at all ineffective. On the other hand, the government today, on 19 November, publishes its response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report on support for municipalities for increased construction. There, the government writes the following:...The government agrees that the support has been difficult to follow up and it has therefore been difficult to evaluate whether it has stimulated an increase in housing construction. In other words, the government recognizes that it is not even possible to say whether the aid granted generously to the country's municipalities has actually led to what it wanted it to lead to. Mr President, I would like to It is quite remarkable, it is said, that the government, on the one hand, says in an official and public letter that it has not even been able to ascertain whether the support has had the desired intention and that the Government, on the other hand, says here in the pulpit of the Parliament that this was certainly a successful and desirable reform and that it does not at all share the view that it was ineffective. At the same time, one goes on to reply to the Swedish National Audit Office that the criticism was probably still quite justified. This is simply not connected. The Government is happy to develop further.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-272	Mr President, I would like to Well, you get confused when the government gives its answer. The Government does not share the view that investment support for rental and housing for students is an inefficient measure. This is what the Minister of State, the Minister of Housing, stood here before the Swedish people and said. It could be someone who believes in it. The Government has clearly given that answer. At the same time, the following is published on the Government's website in a response to the Swedish National Audit Office, which evaluated support for municipalities for increased housing construction: The government agrees that the support has been difficult to follow up and it has therefore been difficult to evaluate whether it has stimulated increased housing construction. ..................................................... Of course, one wonders who the Government represents. Is it the government or the Green Party? But that is not why I signed up for this debate. The other day, an interesting seminar was held in the Riksdag, where the Tenants' Association presented its report Young Adults' Accommodation in Sweden in 2019. The report has been produced annually since 1997 – you can therefore follow the trend over time – and is about, among other things, how many young people involuntarily live at home, i.e. cannot leave home due to their lack of housing. As you know, this government has failed in many different areas, just as Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin points out. The report shows that in 1997 15% of Sweden's young people aged 20 to 27 lived at home. Today it is 27%. In other words, 280 000 young adults live at home with guardians. There are 280 000 young people aged 20 to 27 who, due to government policy, cannot leave home. It is, of course, a major failure, Mr President, no matter how you twist it and turn it around. The report also shows that 35 percent of Sweden's young people are worried about finding no accommodation in the future – 35 percent! Not 3 per cent, not 5 per cent, not 7 per cent, but 35 per cent of Sweden's young people are worried about finding no accommodation in the future. It is even the case that about one in four young people agrees with the claim that they are reluctant to start a family because of the situation on the housing market. Mr President, I would like to We are not talking about Faraway, but we are talking about the country of Sweden, where 27 percent of the young people live at home with their guardians – 280 000 young people who want to leave home. It is clear that one will then be concerned when the government and the Government clearly do not have the same idea of the only measure that the Minister for Housing has highlighted in his response to Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin as an effective measure. The Government rejects the Minister for Housing's answer and publishes another answer that has been given to the Swedish National Audit Office. It would be interesting to know what the Minister of Housing's answer is to all the young adults who actually want to move to their own home – I see that there are quite a lot of people in the gallery today. They want answers on how to get a home in the future and where to move.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-284	Mr President, I would like to I will take this opportunity to talk some housing policy with our Minister for Housing Per Bolund. My analysis is that we have had a completely dysfunctional housing policy in Sweden for many years. It could be called an accident and a patchwork. It introduces state subsidies and believes that it solves the problems. This is the wrong way to go. If you are going to invest in real estate and housing, it must be a long-term economy. Otherwise, no one wants to do that, other than possibly municipalities that have fiscal power in their backs. Does the Minister of Housing believe that a new housing policy reform is needed, and if so, is the Government prepared to take the initiative? What does the Minister of Housing intend to implement for reforms to boost housing construction more than government subsidies? Does Minister Bolund want to simplify the Planning and Construction Act? Does the Government want to reduce national interests? Does the Government really want to relax the beach cover, not just in parts of the country where no one is prepared to invest and build? Does Minister Bolund believe that the amortisation requirement allows more people to buy a home, especially younger people? Does Minister Bolund believe that the 22 percent removal tax makes it easier for old people to sell their villa? They may have bought and built the villa in the 60's, paid off and worked hard in the same spirit. When they then want to sell, they must pay 22% of the value, which they cannot then invest in a new dwelling. Does Minister Bolund think this is a good thing?
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-288	Mr President, I would like to When I listen to these breast tones in the debate, which are often heard in the debates on housing policy for some strange reason, it may be worth recalling what the reality is also of housing construction. One might get some idea that the moderate gentlemen have something to beat their chests for when it comes to housing. But it is easy to compare what it looks like now with a red-green government and what it looked like for eight years with a moderate-led government. Every year with a red-green government, we have had a higher rate of construction than any single year during the eight years of the Alliance in power. I think that speaks clearly in its own language. We have come up in a building act that the Alliance government was never near. In order to confuse the debate, it is easy to try to squeeze in breast tones and make it sound like it is some kind of decline or similar, but we have actually higher build rate now than we have had in decades. The average for built apartments was in the 1990s about 30,000 per year. Now we have a building act that is in the order of 50 000 apartments per year, which is a significantly higher rate. There will also be a great many homes on the market and have come out. Already this year, some 60 000 homes are expected to be placed on the market. In 2020 57,000 dwellings will be completed according to the forecast. I think that the concept of dysfunctional housing policy, which Kjell Jansson used, is very true. The housing policy that has been in place for a very long time has been that you should not have a housing policy but simply let the market take care of housing policy entirely. We can now see what effects it has had. Some have been built, but most of all it has been built very expensive. It has been built in a premium segment. It is luxury apartments that companies like Oscar Properties and others build that have come onto the market but as a very few people advice to demand, while the vast majority of those who do not have multimillion-dollar income obviously are not able to demand that type of housing. The market for this type of housing is obviously also filled with excess. There are currently vacant apartments in the housing market in Stockholm that no one can afford to demand, because the segment very expensive housing for very rich people is already fulfilled. That is why we need an active housing policy. That is also what is now being achieved with the help of the Red-Green Government and the cooperation that we have with the Center Party and the Liberals. We have agreed in the January Agreement on a long series of measures to be implemented precisely in order to achieve a better functioning housing market. We're going to review the rental system. We will also review rents when it comes to new construction, so that it becomes more attractive to build rental apartments. We will review the interest on the amount of the deferral. We have also raised the ceiling for the deferral to SEK 3 million to make it easier for people to change homes. We will make regulatory changes, which is also included in the January agreement. Among other things, national interests, which were mentioned in the debate, we have written that we should review. We are now again introducing investment support for rental rights, which the moderate-led majority in the committee, together with the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, took away, thereby creating an enormous amount of uncertainty. This has meant that many landlords have unfortunately not dared to put the shovel in the ground and build rental apartments. There, a little more stability could have made the market easier. But the Moderates chose instead to put forward a budget that pulled away the carpet for those who wanted to build rental apartments, which I find very sad. In addition, we will introduce climate declarations and minimum environmental requirements for housing construction. We have an active agenda, an active housing policy. That is exactly what is needed if we are to have a high level of construction continued and a better functioning housing market. It can be said that the Moderates in their budget exercise take away but do not lead to politics.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-297	Mr President, I would like to It is almost astounding to hear the Minister of Housing standing in this speaker's chair and, so to speak, assume responsibility for the fact that we have had a boom in this country and that, in addition, during that boom, we have had a decent construction, which is a consequence not only of the great regulatory simplification work carried out during the alliance government, among other things. It would then be interesting to hear from the Minister of Housing what reforms were made by the Government of Löfven during the 2014–2018 term that led to the historically high level of housing construction. That would be very interesting to hear. If you believe the government in the opinion that has been up for debate here in the speaker's chair during this interpellation debate, the government cannot at any rate conclude that it would be investment aid. The government itself says in its opinion that it is impossible to determine whether it has even had any effect. It would be beneficial to clarify what the government's position is. Is that what you are presenting on your website, or is that what the Minister for Housing is expressing in this House today? They are quite contrary to each other, and that is in itself remarkable. In fact, to make this discussion a little more constructive, I had a specific question here from the speaker's chair that I did not receive an answer from the Minister for Housing. The question was: Is the Minister of Housing prepared to meet the moderate proposal to raise the mortgage ceiling to 90%? This is considered to be one of the most important factors in creating more opportunities for young people to enter the housing market. We also need to do a wide range of other things, including a substantial simplification of the rules. There, however, the Minister for Housing is sorry, but it is simply not something that I advise the Green Party to be able to come about with. Because it's a party that's made up of screwing up everything as much as possible. This shows, not least, the new proposal for larger attefallshus. When you read the proposal in detail, it turns out that if a ceiling house is to be 30 square metres instead of the current 25 square metres, all building standards must be met. The bathroom must be accessible at four square meters and so on. It's a bizarre proposal. The square is that it has made it easier to build attefallshus. But it must be built according to exactly the same regulations as for a newly constructed villa. Who, then, will want to build a 60 - square - foot [30 sq m] aft house? That is exactly the way the Green Party is doing when you gain power and influence over a policy area. You screw it up, and you make more rules. The Swedish building code, which today is called Boverket's building regulations, was during the time of the Borg government down to 700 rules. Today, the regulatory framework is up to over 3 000 rules. So regulatory simplification must be left to a government that really wants to do something about it. But until then, is the Minister of Housing prepared to heed the moderate proposal to raise the mortgage ceiling to 90% to help more young people enter the housing market?
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-304	Mr President, I would like to The remarkable thing that has happened today is that the Minister for Housing has given a response in this House to my colleague Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, who says that investment aid is working well. On the same day, the Government has published a statement on its website in a response to the Swedish National Audit Office which agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism that it has been so necessary to assess whether it has stimulated increased housing construction. The two views do not add up, Mr President. I think that the Swedish people deserve to know who Minister Per Bolund represents. Is it the government, or is it the Green Party? It wouldn't be surprising if it was the Green Party. The government now consists of three parts. It is the Social Democrats who speak. It is the Green Party that is speaking. And sometimes they speak together. I think that the responsible minister has to explain or at least relate to the fact that 27 per cent of Sweden's young people live at home. The report states that 85 per cent have involuntary homes. 85 per cent corresponds to 238 000 people, according to the Tenant's Association's report, which has been made from 1997 onwards. You can follow developments over time. And reality beats the government's rhetoric. The reality is just as the report says: a percentage of young adults aged 20 to 27 living at home is higher than before in the Tenants' Association's measurements. So it's higher. Reality always beats political rhetoric. I would like to hear how the Minister views the study and what it intends to do about the social problem.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-308	Mr President, I would like to Regrettably, Per Bolund mentions that you should be doing things when it comes to national interests. Let's hope so, because that's the only thing that's coming. Per Bolund also mentions that it has been built as never before. That's absolutely true. In the Stockholm region, which I work in since before, all moderate-led municipalities have pushed forward a huge number of detailed plans. We have done so under protest from the Green Party. In my municipality of residence, among other things, they were totally opposed to extensive exploitation and called for its rejection. But we pushed it through with the Social Democrats and the other bourgeois. It is the reality that I want to describe in this House, so that people can hear about it. The rules are too complicated. Simplifications are needed that make it easy to build. It takes an average of nine years to develop a detailed plan in Sweden with the regulations for which the government is responsible – nine years! Often the county administrative board is the biggest hassle. It is planned for a couple of years and reviews the decisions of municipalities or refer them back to municipalities. It's not okay to have such long processing times. This means that the plans proposed are outdated when it is time to build and then need to be revised. Does the Minister of Housing want to reduce the beach cover? I want answers to that.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-312	Mr President, I would like to I chose not to answer the question about the Swedish National Audit Office's review, because I thought it was such an embarrassment on the part of the debaters and therefore did not want to dig too deep into the wound. The problem is that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin and Lars Beckman mix up two completely different forms of support, which have nothing to do with each other, and try to pretend that the Swedish National Audit Office has carried out a review of a support that has not been examined at all. The Swedish National Audit Office has looked at the support that was given to the municipalities when planning construction plans and the state made demands that you have to have relevant overview plans. The support amounted to SEK 1.3 billion during the years when it came as most migrants to Sweden. There was then a great need for housing. This is not the same as investment aid for rental apartments. That is a completely different support. It is sad that the debaters confuse two different forms of support. Either they are ignorant or they are simply misleading and want to confuse the audience by entering the debate in this way. I think that the debaters have reason to go up in the speaker's chair and apologize and say: These two things have nothing to do with each other. Perhaps they should also apologise to the government, which has been unnecessarily exposed to a lot of abuse that is in no way in line with reality. When you are mistaken in the dramatic way that the debaters have done, you also have a duty to stand up and say: We made a mistake. We apologize. I therefore hope that such an apology will come later in the debate. Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin also asks about the mortgage ceiling and goes to quite a severe attack on it. It may be worth recalling, even for the benefit of the audience, that it was the Moderates who introduced the mortgage ceiling. It was a moderate government that took the initiative precisely to reduce the risks of household indebtedness. If the Moderates have now reconsidered whether or not it has happened. However, it can be observed that with their reform, the cash input for a home buyer would be reduced by one third. It's a pretty dramatic change. This also reduces the margins of households, the ability of households to cope with, for example, disruptions. Of course, it also increases the vulnerability of households. The mortgage ceiling was introduced with, among other things, the 90s crisis in mind. There was an economic downturn, housing prices were set up and people became unemployed. When people became ill and were unable to pay their rents and fees, they had to sell at a lower price. But they still had the high loans. There are thousands of people in Sweden who still live on today, decades after, with the loans from the 1990s crisis. I do not think anyone should have to end up in that situation and is therefore not prepared, as an individual measure, to remove the mortgage ceiling. However, the parties that concluded the January agreement have written that we should make a major review of housing taxes. When carrying out a tax review and reviewing the whole, there may be an opportunity to review also some of the regulations that have come in recent years and which I would like to emphasise have been justified. Through the amortisation requirements we have got a healthy amortisation culture in Sweden. It was really ebbing out during the Moderates' time in power. This increased the risks, both for the Swedish economy and for individual households. This has been pointed out by many both Swedish and international evaluators, as pointed out by the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission. Above all, what keeps young people away from the housing market is the rapidly rising prices. It has been this way since, not least, the moderate government's time in power. Prices rose over a decade by 10 to 15 per cent per year. Now the price trend is rather around 2.7 per cent per year, which is in line with, for example, wage developments. This means that you no longer get such a rejection of young people, as we could see when the prices just rose and rose and the dream of a home of your own came further and further away. I think this is a positive development that opens the way for young people to enter the housing market.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-321	Mr President, I would like to It is a little remarkable that the Minister of Housing is standing here accusing us of moderates of being dishonest. After all, these are two related issues. This is about public support for housing construction. While accusing the Moderates of being dishonest, he stands and says that it was the Moderates who introduced the lowering of the mortgage ceiling. Finansinspektionen – an independent authority – did this in 2010. If I remember correctly, Mr President, it was precisely with the kind of argument that Per Bolund defended when Finansinspektionen introduced amortisation requirement number two, namely that Finansinspektionen is an independent authority. What we are discussing in this House today is whether the policy, that is, the government, needs to go in and intervene because the mass of regulations in the area of credit regulation means that we are closing young people out of the housing market in a way that, I hope, has not been a government's intention in this market. However, this will be the effect. We therefore ask ourselves the question: is the government prepared to review the possibility of raising the mortgage ceiling again so that young people will have it easier to enter the housing market, even today, before we have a government in place that can actually stimulate housing construction seriously through substantial regulatory simplifications? However, we are not there today. The change in the mortgage ceiling could be implemented significantly much faster if the government wanted to.
i-381e861ec3e0b5be-324	Mr President, I would like to Let us remind ourselves once again that every year, under a red-green government, we have had a higher rate of construction than in any single year of the eight years of the Alliance in power. This speaks clearly, and I think that the interpeller and the other debaters should take this fact on board. It doesn't seem like it's really sunk in. It is important to emphasise that we have a high degree of mobility in the Swedish housing market. In fact, we've reached all-time high when it comes to sold-out homes. In the first ten months of this year alone 142 600 homes have changed hands. We therefore have a high degree of mobility in the housing market, and this also indicates that we have a functioning housing market. It is also important to point out that the price trend under the red-green government is quite different now than when housing prices were almost ticking in the metropolitan areas, not least in the Stockholm area, which made the dream of an apartment in Stockholm, for example, only become smaller and less realistic for young people. Now there is an opportunity to catch up. I would also like to answer the question that came up about investment aid. I think it is important to hear from those who have the opportunity to make use of it. SKL, Sweden's Municipalities and County Council, has made an evaluation and asked those who build how the support has affected. Four out of ten say that they would not have built at all if the investment aid had not existed. So they had disappeared. Three out of ten say they had built fewer apartments. Thus, there would have been less choice for those who need housing. Six out of ten say they would have built but with a significantly higher rent level and lower energy performance. It is clear that investment aid has played an important role. It has so far reached 26 000 homes. Now that we have an agreement between the January Contracting Parties, we will be able to continue building rental apartments that have a reasonable rent level and that people with a normal income can afford to demand. I think it is good that we now have a government that takes the housing problem seriously and that dares to implement reforms that can make a difference here and now.
