i-bb676b422f255d93-2	Madam President, I would like Sara Seppälä has asked me if I intend to work for a similar legislation in Sweden as the one I referred to on Friday 31 March 2017, i.e. forced marriage protection orders. Honour-related violence and oppression is a social problem that causes great physical and mental suffering and against which it is of the utmost importance that society marks with force. We can never accept that people are not allowed to choose for themselves who to marry or that they are married to children. Legislation must make this clear, and the authorities must have the right tools and well-developed working methods to address the problems that exist. Since 2014, there have been special penal provisions in the Criminal Code on forced marriage and misleading forced marriage. Child marriage is to a large extent a forced marriage problem. The rules on penalties have been drawn up with this in mind. Among other things, the introduction of these penal provisions has significantly strengthened protection against forced and child marriages. The investigation into stronger protection against child marriages, forced marriages and crimes with honorary motives presented its final report last autumn. The investigation proposes the introduction of a special penalty for a child marriage offence. The investigation considers that a specific child marriage crime would provide clear information on the part of the legislator that child marriage cannot be tolerated. As regards the possibility of preventing the exit of children at risk of being forced to marry, the investigator has analysed the English system. The investigation considers that there is a need to be able to restrict, for protective purposes, the possibility of travelling abroad for children at risk of being taken out of the country for marriage or a marriage-like relationship or being subjected to genital mutilation. The investigation therefore proposes that an exit ban be introduced into the Act with special provisions on the care of young people. In order to be effective, such an exit ban should be punishable and impose restrictions on the possibility of obtaining and holding passports. The investigation proposes, on the one hand, that the person who removes a child from Sweden in violation of an exit ban, or promotes a child travelling abroad in violation of such a ban, be sentenced to a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of one year, and, on the other hand, that a passport obstacle and reasons for a passport recall should arise for a child who has been issued an exit ban. The proposed amendments to the Passport Act also allow passports to be taken care of and blocked in these situations. The report of the inquiry has been consulted. The referral period expired on 28 May 2019. The Government will now review the views of the consultation bodies and then take a position on the overall assessment basis.
i-QJDAWwFSotVT5BoPpdy3AP	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the answer, Morgan Johansson! Madam President, I would like This is not a new problem. In addition, it is unfortunately a major problem, which affects many girls and women today. I myself have grown up with this in the background and have experienced that people close to me have been subjected to more or less forced marriages. I grew up in a Stockholm suburb with a Kurdish father and got to see this around me in our Swedish society. I experienced at close range how girls disappeared or were forced to marry whom they had not chosen — girls who trusted their family and who needed the support and love of their relatives but who were forced into marriage against their will and were abused, girls who were subjected to terrible acts that a child should not suffer. Madam President, I would like It is terrible to see how children can be treated as if they were your own possessions. It hurts my heart that this is happening in Sweden. It is strange that in 2019 we still do not have a law that makes being married to a child punishable. Of course, parents who take girls out of Sweden to marry them away in other countries will be severely punished for that. As I now listen to Morgan Johansson's reply, I am concerned that the Government seems to want to postpone the legislation as soon as possible. In addition, it is a watered down proposal sent for referral. In March 2017, Morgan Johansson spoke about five years in prison for those who do not tell us where their daughter is. Now it is suddenly turned into a financial penalty and possibly up to a year's imprisonment, a penalty that is less than half the penalty value for assault or theft and is well below the three years that should be the minimum penalty for rape. Although young girls are married off against their will, are robbed of their entire future and are often subjected to both physical and sexual coercion in another country, the government seems to want to compare it with minor abuse. So that girls are married off against their will has about the same penalty value as giving someone a slap – a slap, Morgan Johansson! Is that really reasonable? In addition, the slap must not give permanent marks, for then it is assault of the normal level and twice as much punishment as for the parent who sends his child abroad to be married away. The lives of young immigrant girls simply do not seem to have a high value according to the government, which likes to call itself feminist but now that it really does not want to act and let alone stand up for the rights of young girls. The rules on forced marriage referred to by Morgan Johansson are intended to protect young girls, but they do not. When 9 000 adult men who lied about their age were in danger of having to leave Sweden, it took only a few months to come up with legislation to protect them. When, on the other hand, it is underage immigrant girls who are forced to leave Sweden, the government is not at all as interested in intervening. I would like to ask Morgan Johansson what this lack of interest is due to. Is it that it is an adult child, or is it perhaps that it is girls and not boys? Why does the government not give the security of immigrant girls as much priority as that of adult Afghan men?
i-bb676b422f255d93-16	Madam President, I would like We often say that our children are a gift, and they are in many ways. But we don't own them. Our children are individuals of their own who have their own rights, not some kind of appendage to the family. That was the way it was before. Even in Sweden there was actually an old-fashioned, conservative attitude that meant that the children in some way were just an appendage to the family and where the family also had influence over who married who. You would sometimes pair so-called nice families with each other. In fact, it was also in our country. We have broken with this. We have done so as a result of a long-standing Social Democratic power in which we have gradually cleaned out all these types of old-fashioned, conservative values from our society. We're not going back there. When we see such things appearing in other contexts, such as other ethnicities or other religions, we must be very clear and talk about what values apply in Sweden. Human rights are indivisible. It doesn't matter what ethnicity or religion we're talking about; you have the right to decide for yourself who you're going to marry or whether you're not going to marry at all, what religion you're going to have or if you're not going to have any religion at all. These rights are indivisible, and they must apply to everyone in the same way. That also applies to this problem. We have done a great deal in recent years to combat this kind of honour-related crime and tighten up legislation in this area. As I said in my reply, in 2014 we introduced a special criminalisation in relation to children and forced marriages, and now we are also seeing how the prosecutions in these cases come. Then, too, the possibility of obtaining an exemption to marry was removed when you are under 18 years of age. The legislation that allowed such exemptions to be granted had been available for a very long time, but that possibility is now gone. We have also plugged a gap in legislation on the recognition of children's marriages. We did that as late as last year. Forced marriage can result in a sentence of up to four years in prison. Today, attempts, preparation, and conspiracy of marriage are also criminalized. In addition, we introduced a new crime called misleading marriage, which means that it is now also criminalized to induce someone to travel abroad for forced marriage. In fact, this criminalisation applies even if there has not even been a marriage; this means that the actual departure is prohibited. We made those changes to the law. At the same time, however, we concluded that it was not enough and that we needed to carry out a further review. That is what I was talking about in the 2017 interpellation debate. I said we needed to do more things and look at how other countries are handling this. That is why we decided on such a review, and it has now resulted in a number of legislative proposals, including the possibility of blocking passports and of imposing an exit ban on children who, in these cases, are at risk. Then we criminalize those who violate the exit ban. There, among other things, we have looked at the British system. Sara Seppälä talks about punishment scales here, and then one should know that all sexual exploitation, all rape against children and all that has to do with this has been criminalized for a long time with serious punitive scales. In fact, I myself was involved in introducing the special statute for rape of children, which has a serious scale of punishment. When it comes to combating this type of sexual exploitation of children, we do not put our fingers in the middle.
i-bb676b422f255d93-23	Madam President, I would like I don't feel Morgan Johansson really answered why the government believes that immigrant girls' lives are so much less important than those of others. The fact remains that the government is actually proposing that the penalty value for marrying his minor daughter in another country and then refusing to tell the authorities what happened is to give someone a slap. So taking away a little girl her whole life and her whole future is hardly punishable. It gives a financial penalty and a maximum of one year in prison, while an assault gives up to two years in prison and according to the government is twice as bad as marrying your child in another country. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, this is how many children may not return after the summer break. Given that this has been a problem for many years, one cannot help questioning the inaction of the government. As early as 2017, Morgan Johansson said that he wanted to introduce a law that requires parents and relatives to tell where their young girls are. He then referred to Britain and the law that gives up to five years in prison if you do not tell us where your children are. That law is to protect the girls from getting married. Today, barely half of 2019 has passed, and now Morgan Johansson is suddenly not at all interested in judging any parent particularly harshly if they choose to marry their daughter away in another country. Instead, what the government is presenting is a light milk product that will hardly deter anyone. What is said in practice is that it is not a serious crime, but fine is normally a sufficient punishment to take away a young girl's whole life and future. At the same time, it also sends out signals via authorities that girls from other cultures should not count on the support of society, as when the J women's authority mentions that the concept of honor-related violence and oppression should not be used in the curriculum texts as it can be perceived as pointing out. We are not even going into the now withdrawn folder about being married to a child in Sweden. In addition, there are many small signals in other laws and regulations, such as when the government recently felt it was important for children to be able to write a prenuptial agreement or that special rules have been created for child benefit for married children. The penalty that is now being imposed, for a maximum of one year's imprisonment and, normally, a fine, is not what I wanted. I believe that this should provide a harsh and long prison sentence. Given that we agree that the punishment for rape should be at least three years old, I wonder why Morgan Johansson believes that Swedish girls with immigrant backgrounds who were married away in other countries would suddenly volunteer during the wedding night. What makes the government think that girls from other cultures have a disposition that makes them want to have sex with unknown men whom others have chosen for them in foreign countries?
i-bb676b422f255d93-28	Madam President, I would like A rape is a rape regardless of where it is committed – if it is committed in Sweden or in other countries and if it is committed by a person with whom it has been forced to marry or if it is committed by another person. It is exactly the same criminal law that applies. Criminal law also treats all these cases equally seriously, regardless of what they are. We tightened sex crime legislation as late as 1 July last year. Among other things, we introduced negligence and consent regulation. We also tightened the penalties for the gross rapes, and we will tighten the penalties for normal rapes as well. But whoever has sex with a person against his will commits a crime. Then it's a rape no matter who commits the rape. It is important to clarify this in this debate. Madam President, I would like I was accused of inaction. At the interpellation debate that we had on this in 2017, I announced that we would review the legislation that came into place in 2014. I said that that legislation was good but that it needed to be further strengthened. At the time, I mentioned, among other things, the tools available in the United Kingdom where, for example, there is a ban on exit, which is now proposed in the report, and the possibility of withdrawing passports, which is also part of the proposal that has now come. We decided on the review and the report came last autumn. Why, then, have we just sent this for a referral now in the spring of 2019? The answer, of course, is that one of the first things Sara Seppälä did when she came to Parliament was to be in an opposition that deposed the government without having a plan for what a new government could look like. This meant that the whole autumn went without us being able to take any political initiatives in practice. Then, when we returned to the government in January, we were able to continue with these processes in which we are now in the midst. Last week, the consultation period for the new bill expired, and we will continue to work on it. The proposal, in addition to the prohibition of exit and the possibility of withdrawing passports, also provides for a special penalty, i.e. that crimes with honorary motives should be punished more severely than other crimes. For example, an assault or kidnapping with honorary motives in the future will be regarded as a worse crime than an assault crime without such a motive. Why? Because these situations sometimes involve having whole families against you, or at least large parts of it, and so you are completely alone. Therefore, the legislator must take a more stringent view of this type of crime than of other crimes. It is also in the proposal. As I said, the referral period expired last week. We will work on a legislative proposal during the summer and early autumn. I expect that we will be able to have a sharp bill ready in the autumn, which will then be able to enter into force in Swedish legislation next year. In this way, we are tightening our eyes on this type of crime. No one should have to doubt the seriousness of the government's view of these crimes. If we need to do even more, and if we need to do more also in terms of the scale of penalties, I am, of course, open to that. It is a process that we will have in the future, and this is an issue on which we will be working very actively in the coming parliamentary term.
i-bb676b422f255d93-35	Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson is really trying to make it sound like the government is acting against girls being married abroad. But reality says something completely different. In the five years that the Social Democratic Government has now been sitting, nothing has been done to prevent girls from being taken out of the country. Although there have been investigations that have even highlighted the need for rapid action, very little is happening. Blameing that it normally takes a long time does not hold up when at the same time you can legislate on adult Afghan men who should be able to take care of themselves and that law is suddenly ready in a few months. A law to protect young immigrant girls, on the other hand, cannot be achieved in five years. What then seems to come is nothing but games for the gallery. To be honest, fine for marrying a daughter in another country will hardly deter anyone. Madam President, I would like I have a 14-year-old daughter. When I look at her, I can't understand how the government can stand so paralysed. She's really not married. But she will marry the one she chooses when the time comes and she is grown and of age. We need a clear law that makes it illegal to be married to a child in Sweden and that means that you get a long prison sentence if you marry your child away in another country. Madam President, I would like I will be able to go home tonight and feel that I have done what I can for all children who are at risk of being married away during the summer. Morgan Johansson won't be able to do that.
i-bb676b422f255d93-40	Madam President, I would like Of course you can stand here and say that nothing has been done. But we have a new law since 2014, for four years. Now we are beginning to see prosecutions based on it, including prison sentences in the judges. So the existing legislation works. But I think you should make it even stronger. That is precisely why I have put in place a review and have said: what else do we need to do in order to avoid and prevent these situations? What else do we need to do to send a clear signal to those who are considering this kind of action that if you do so, you will suffer penalties? It has never ever been allowed to marry 14-year-olds, to whom Sara Seppälä refers. However, if this were to happen in Sweden, it would be judged not only on the basis of the usual legislation regarding sexual abuse and rape, but also on the basis of a special legislation concerning rape against children. It's got quite a scale of punishment. We have therefore tightened up our view of all sexual abuse against children and adults. We will do so further in the coming years. In addition to what we are talking about here with regard to criminal law, I would like to mention what we have done in order to anticipate. We have made sure that women's and girls' shelters have more money to move with than ever before. This means greater opportunities for those who are subjected to various forms of oppression or to men's violence against women, regardless of their ethnicity, to receive concrete protection. We also go in with additional money to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to be able to become better at preventing children from being taken out of Sweden. But if children have left Sweden, you should be able to help get them back home. Madam President, I would like We will continue to work actively on this in the coming term of office. That is one of our top priorities.
i-bb676b422f255d93-46	Madam President, I would like Mattias Karlsson has asked me whether I, as Minister of Economic Affairs, intend to take greater responsibility for the urban transformation in Kiruna, for example by appointing a government coordinator to manage the further process. LKAB has for a long time been of great importance to Sweden. Jobs have been created, both directly and indirectly, in Norrbotten as well as other parts of the country. Through the operations, conditions have been created to build our welfare society. Companies with state ownership can act on commercial grounds or have specifically decided social assignments, which are decided by the Riksdag. LKAB has a business assignment, which together with current legislation provides the framework for the company's commitments to urban transformation. The State's ownership policy and guidelines for companies with state ownership clarify the conditions for ownership, board and management. The boards of the companies in which the State has a participation are responsible for operating within the existing framework, with laws, articles of association and the state's ownership policy. LKAB and its Board of Directors are responsible for the company's operational activities. This includes decisions and other measures as well as the company's costs associated with urban transformation. Sweden's municipalities handle both administrative tasks and matters of general interest related to the municipality's area or its members. An important task is to carry out overview planning and detailed planning according to the Planning and Construction Act. This is necessary to enable, for example, housing construction or, as in this case, urban transformation. I assume that the stakeholders have constructive discussions and find common solutions and that the urban transformation continues, for the benefit of Kiruna, Norrbotten and Sweden as well as the country.
i-bb676b422f255d93-52	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for its answer. However, I would like to receive guidance on how the Government and the Government envisage a solution to the problems that have arisen in Kiruna due to LKAB's expansion and the urban transformation that will be the consequence of the same. The destruction of cities, due to natural disasters, economic development or war, is not a new or unique phenomenon. But moving a city whose existence is threatened is something quite unique. That is exactly what is happening in Kiruna right now. Sweden's municipalities and county councils have named it as history's largest urban transformation. Kiruna residents have an understanding that the move of the city is a necessity. But this insight is associated with feelings such as pain, sadness and nostalgia. Indigenous environments, places associated with memories and history, and for some even their own accommodation will disappear. For this reason, urban transformation must take place with great respect and sensitivity to the wishes of the inhabitants. Recently, a conflict between Kiruna municipality on the one hand and LKAB on the other has escalated. We are now seeing a worrying and dangerous development in Kiruna municipality. The whole urban transformation that is going on is at risk. LKAB's continued operations and survival are also at risk. For a number of years, there has been a distrust among many Kiruna residents that they will pursue the plan to build up all the social functions that are being dismantled in the old city centre in the new city. In frustration that, among other things, the railway draw and the associated central railway station have not yet been agreed upon, Kiruna Municipality is threatening not to approve LKAB's application for a new detailed plan. This will eventually lead to the mine remaining. The high tone between the parties is deeply worrying. I believe that the government, as the owner of LKAB, must now enter the conflict and ensure the security of Kiruna residents throughout the urban transformation and calm the concerns that LKAB's employees feel when operations are threatened. I believe that the government should appoint a state coordinator as a matter of urgency, who is tasked with ensuring continued positive urban transformation with a strong and competitive state-owned company, LKAB. I would like to ask the Government how he thinks of a solution to the problems that have arisen and whether he is prepared to be part of the solution to them himself.
i-bb676b422f255d93-58	Madam President, I would like I and Mattias Karlsson fully agree that this is if not unique so at least unique in our country. I'm sure there may be other examples on earth where you've gone into this kind of urban transformation, but I don't know anything. You have to have full respect for all the feelings that this can trigger and that Mattias Karlsson expresses. I don't think it can be understood until you're there. It is therefore extremely important that this is done properly and in accordance with the rules and laws that exist. Although it is unique and on a scale that we have not seen before, it is not uncommon for this type of change to take place on a smaller scale, for individual property owners. In order to do this, we also have laws and regulations so that there is nothing arbitrary from time to time. In addition, LKAB's instructions contain a very clear directive, which the Riksdag, not the Government, has established. It should be added that both Moderates and Social Democrats, together with other parties in broad agreement, are behind this directive, which requires the company to be run commercially. In view of the complex urban transformation, the feelings associated with this and the laws and regulations that exist, the Swedish National Audit Office, which looked at it in 2017, has reviewed how this is handled, not least on the part of LKAB. I mean not only on the basis of the commitments made by law and regulation, but the Swedish National Audit Office has also wanted to clarify whether it has gone too far on the basis of the directive that exists from the Riksdag that the company should be operated on a commercial basis. This report is available for reading. It was delivered to the Government and the Riksdag in 2017. It states that the assessment was then that this had been done on the basis of the conditions that existed. There was a question mark that Parliament's directives had gone too far, but it was not too clear. The government has also responded to this since then. Now we are in this position, and a state coordinator is being called for. For my part, I think it is important, in a complicated situation such as this, that the parties directly responsible for this should sit down and find solutions. I find it extremely difficult to believe that there is a simple solution that someone else can come up with. With regard to the requirement that the government should act in a different way, there is no legal scope for it on the basis of the company's directive as owner. In that case, it would require some kind of social mission, and no such proposals have been put forward by the Moderates, Mattias Karlsson or any other party in this House. In the complex situation that exists, I doubt that additional players would be of any great help. I believe that the most important and best thing for both Kiruna and Norrbotten and our country is to find solutions and not to engage in threatening each other. It won't help in the long run. Beyond the urban transformation, Kiruna and LKAB will be very important to ensure that it will be a good development for both LKAB and Kiruna as a city. It would therefore be best if constructive solutions could be found together. I do not think that anyone else can find a solution other than what those closest to them who are best aware of the situation themselves can do.
i-bb676b422f255d93-65	Madam President, I would like Let me stress once again that Kiruna residents are almost 100%, or at least 98%, very much in favour of the whole urban transformation. They have been prepared to let their houses be redeemed, and despite what they may have felt in their hearts, they have been prepared to move to the new city. This is not the big problem. Once they made the emotional decision and were ready to move to a new city, they also wanted the new city to have the same functions as the old one. When the municipal management and municipal council in Kiruna decided to move the city, it was not unconditional. They realized that LKAB was extremely important for the city's survival. At the same time, however, certain conditions had been laid down to allow the city's land to become industrial land and that LKAB could continue its journey as a strong state-owned company. Three clear conditions had been set for agreeing to the urban transformation and giving land to LKAB. Firstly, the urban transformation would not burden Kiruna's taxpayers. This was the first condition that was put in place. Secondly, the development of the new city would precede the dismantling of the old one. First, the new, then the old, would be developed. Third, the functions and environments that were decommissioned would be replaced by the corresponding function, volume and quality. The municipality and Kiruna residents now feel that LKAB does not live up to all of this and that the state as owner does not live up to replacing the old functions that are being phased out in the new city. They feel they're going to be dragged by the nose. Kiruna residents feel deceived by the whole urban transformation. These include, as we have previously mentioned, the new rail route. With the move of the city, a new railway route is needed. It is needed not only for it to pass through the new city which will have a central railway station, but also for cracks to occur. As things stand today, the State and the Finnish Transport Administration have not negotiated this. The municipality therefore feels that it may never become a reality and that you may never get a central railway station in the new Kiruna. After the conflict had erupted in the media in my country of Norrbotten, they contacted you, Ibrahim Baylan, as Minister of Economic Affairs and asked: Will the government act in any way because the parties have locked themselves in the discussion? You replied in the following way in an email to Norrbottens Media on May 17 regarding whether the government should act on the matter: The object is a matter between the municipality and the company. ..................................................... The same article addresses LKAB and says that the government will not act without the matter having landed with them. LKAB then refers to the fact that the company does not own the issue.
i-bb676b422f255d93-73	Madam President, I would like The interpellation tool is the parliament's way of reviewing what the government is doing, and I have deep respect for that. But when a Member of Parliament deliberately chooses to misinterpret something, it is not as easy. Mattias Karlsson knows very well that the government can become the forum for an appeal from one of the parties. If I were to speak in advance about this, I would go beyond my powers as a minister of state, because how would you do it if there were to be an appeal from any party, whether it was a municipality or a company? On this basis, the answer came that there is no such thing at the government's table, and therefore it is not appropriate to answer. I received another question from Mattias Karlsson, to which he very well knows the answer. He asked about the directive, and that is a directive which Mattias Karlsson, together with the Riksdag in broad agreement, supports. This means that LKAB will be run commercially, commercially. LKAB does not have a joint venture like some other state-owned companies. In this way, the Government cannot impose anything that goes against Parliament's will. Mattias Karlsson also knows that very well. What are the rules then? I explained that in my interpellation response. It's about the laws that exist. The costs incurred are legally obliged to be reimbursed as well. This applies not only in this case, but also in many other cases. Then has LKAB done so? According to the national audit report we received in 2017, it was assessed that the company has done so in a large number of cases. Does that mean that there is agreement on all matters? No, it's obvious you're not. This is evident not least from the media reports referred to by Mattias Karlsson. The question is whether it will be better if additional chefs get into this. I doubt it. Basically, it is not just about what is going on at the moment, it is also about the future and the future. This is a company that we all hope, together with Kiruna, will continue to develop not only in the coming years but also in the coming decades for the benefit of Kiruna residents, Norrbotten and our country. I believe that the question serves very little by party politicisation in this way. The absolute best thing would be to find ways forward within the framework of the directives adopted by Parliament and the laws and regulations that exist. They control very strictly how things like this are to be done. It is not a lawless country, so that you can only choose and choose, but you have that kind of commitment and obligation. Should it turn out that for various reasons it is not possible, there are possibilities for appeals and other things, as Mattias Karlsson very well knows. This is the situation in which both the government and the courts have to make a statement. Should I do so in advance, I think it would lead to a KU notification of ministerial government, perhaps even from Mattias Karlsson himself.
i-bb676b422f255d93-81	Madam President, I would like The Government keeps returning to the commercial operation of this company – as it is superior to everything else. But should you not take into account all the Kiruna residents who are now in the midst of a urban transformation and feel that it is passing them by because the functions that are being dismantled in old Kiruna will not be replaced? Surely the state as owner of LKAB has a greater responsibility here than if it had only been a commercial company in the open market? Here, I believe, the government must take a step forward. The principle that LKAB and the municipality have previously agreed is that what is being phased out in the old is to be developed in the new. The urban transformation is in progress right now. A couple of years old national audit report that everything has gone well I don't think the government should hang on to. This is an ongoing process that it is important to follow to the end. Now we have reached an element 22 mode, where we are unable to negotiate the decommissioning of certain things there because we do not know if we are getting the new ones to us. Among other things, you have a switchboard that needs to be moved. It's about $100 million. You do not know if you dare to take that cost, because you do not know if, for example, a central railway station will become a reality. The Government refers to LKAB. LKAB turns itself down and says: This is not our business. Trafikverket says: We build according to national standards. This means that it will not be a central railway station. This is an element 22 where everyone turns away. I had hoped and thought that the Government could take that responsibility. I would like to invite the Government to Kiruna to see how it looks on site.
i-bb676b422f255d93-87	Madam President, I would like Allow me to be a little personal and say that I probably have very good knowledge of what northern Sweden looks like. Before I got the great privilege of being a full-time politician, I worked over large parts of northern Sweden, both Västerbotten and Norrbotten. I think I've been to most places and know about it. In addition, I have of course had the opportunity to visit Norrbotten many times as a minister – and also as a private minister. Not least the fact that I'm married to a Norrbottenian makes that there are good reasons to go up. Of course, I will do so in the future, for a very simple reason: as a minister, I will of course take note of the experience of the whole of our country. Madam President, I would like I think we all basically want this urban transformation to go well. I also believe that we all basically have everything to gain by cutting back on the tone and not by party politicising this in any way, but by ensuring that the parties who will drive this, in this case Kiruna Municipality and LKAB, find solutions forward. Had there been any simple solution where someone could come in with a magic blow and only solve it, it would of course have happened. Now it sounds like there's only been conflict. However, one should be aware that a large number of Memoranda of Understanding have been concluded. Different parts of this urban transformation have been agreed upon. I think that is basically the way forward, along with the laws and regulations that exist. Mattias Karlsson says that I refer to the Parliament's directive, but it should certainly be able to do much more. To tell you the truth, our country is not governed like that. Either you have a social mission as a state corporation or you don't have it. In this case, it is a matter of purely commercial commercialism, and the Moderates are fully behind it. I haven't heard a damn thing about anything else.
i-bb676b422f255d93-91	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether the government has any concrete plans to support the municipalities in their preventive measures against water scarcity and drought and what their plans will be. Furthermore, the interpeller asks if the government could consider extending the purpose of funding 2:2 Prevention of landslides and other natural disasters in the field of defence and society's emergency preparedness to include water scarcity and drought. In Sweden, society's emergency preparedness is based, among other things, on the so-called responsibility principle. The principle of responsibility means that the person responsible for an activity under normal conditions has equivalent responsibility even during crisis situations. The responsibility includes taking the necessary measures to prevent, resist, manage, restore and learn from accidents and crises. Responsibility for preventing and restoring damage due to extreme weather events is based on the same principles as responsibility for other emergency preparedness in society. It is the municipalities that have the main responsibility for the general supply of drinking water, and the costs of drinking water are financed by the va-tax. However, municipalities' responsibilities do not include real estate with their own well. Water scarcity does not occur suddenly, but can be predicted and thus taken into account in the planning work that the municipalities are responsible for. Several authorities, such as the Swedish Food Administration, SMHI, Sweden's geological survey (SGU), the county administrative boards and others, also work with the issue in different ways. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000. This may, for example, involve flood protection or solidification measures in the soil. It is not clear what the corresponding measures would be in the case of drought and water scarcity. Nor do drought and water scarcity count as natural disasters because they do not happen suddenly. The Government has taken other measures to support responsible actors in the process of securing water supply, including by providing funds. In the 2018 budget proposal, the Government invested SEK 50 million annually until 2021 for the county boards' work on preventive measures for the protection of water and SEK 200 million in 2018 to further restore and build wetlands in order to strengthen the landscape's own ability to maintain and balance water flows. SGU also received increased resources to assist municipalities and counties with in-depth mapping of groundwater resources in particularly vulnerable regions. In the spring 2019 amending budget, the Government has proposed an investment of SEK 120 million on the grant of 1:11 Measures for marine and aquatic environments, of which SEK 20 million is proposed for water protection areas. In addition, funding 1:3 Measures for valuable nature are proposed to provide funds of SEK 200 million, which includes, among other things, continued work with wetlands. In addition to this, the government has recently decided to commission all county boards to map and analyse the water situation at regional and local level in each county in order to provide in-depth information about the situation in order to be prepared for possible water shortages. The Government is following developments in surface and groundwater levels and water supply, and the Government Office is engaged in ongoing dialogue with the responsible authorities.
i-bb676b422f255d93-99	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. In the Stockholm region, the groundwater level is far below normal, which can lead to major problems this summer, not least out on the islands in our beautiful archipelago. It is also problematic for summer guests and entrepreneurs. According to SGU, groundwater levels in May were in large warehouses below normal in large parts of Sweden. Drying occurs after a longer period without precipitation, usually during the summer, when the evaporation is at its greatest. Impact on soil moisture and groundwater levels, as well as on water levels in lakes and streams in watercourses. Now we have these low levels already in May. That concerns me, Madam President. The municipalities certainly have a huge responsibility in this, just as the Government also points out. In the event of water scarcity, irrigation bans can be introduced and water can be saved in various ways. But sometimes it can cause very serious damage. Natural disasters can lead to severe economic losses for individuals, traders, municipalities and regions. Even in cases where these losses are covered by insurance, it may take a long time before those affected are compensated, and some damages are not compensated at all. Whatever crisis is now coming – if it is drought, flooding or other – it will have major economic consequences. Drought and lack of water have effects in many areas such as agriculture, forestry, drinking water production, hydropower and more. The risk of forest fires is also greatly increased in the event of prolonged droughts, as we remember from last summer. Madam President, I would like I'm thinking unseemly about food, food supply. Both vegetables and animals need water to grow. Whether you're a vegetarian or not, we're all exposed to a water shortage. Do we have enough food in case of a crisis? In the event of a crisis, a healthy citizen is expected to cope with food security for up to a whole week. Despite this, there are no emergency stocks, and if the transport systems collapse, the stores will be empty after 24 hours. Sweden can nevertheless be said to have a good food security on a normal day when there is no crisis or water shortage. However, food security in Sweden is already based on imports. Swedish food production has decreased. Sweden has developed a strong dependence on imports over the past 25 years. Nor will food supply be easier if we have a shortage of water. Look at last year's drought, which did not just mean water shortages. It also produced far-reaching effects and had economic consequences as there was a major shortage of feed for many of our farmers. The Swedish Government Damberg says: a scarcity of water does not occur suddenly, but can be anticipated and thus taken into account in the planning work that the municipality is responsible for. Could Minister Damberg clarify how he thinks these farmers would have acted last year so that they know about this summer?
i-bb676b422f255d93-107	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for an important interpellation! Not least last summer we got lightning on what it can mean when we get longer periods of drought and thus water shortage. It was a partly new situation that Sweden faced last year. This year we continue to see in large parts of Sweden low water levels in both the large and the smaller water reservoirs in some places. Those who suffer most if there are longer periods of drought are the individual property owners who have their own well. That's quite a lot of people. That's over a million people. Many of them exist in the agricultural sector and in the tourism sector. It is self-employed around Sweden. Of course it is a hugely important issue. I tried to put the question in context. Many actors have responsibilities. The main responsibility lies with the municipality. Then there are state authorities, where, for example, the Swedish Food Authority has been given the government the task of establishing a national drinking water council. There you gather all the actors to work systematically on the issue. In my previous role as Minister of Economic Affairs, I was responsible for SGU. Then we chose to bring forward investments where SGU flew helicopters with special equipment in order to find areas where it fits well with water depots and where the water flows. It makes it easier to create a larger water resource for a municipality. It also makes it easier for farmers and others, for example, to know which areas are best to put a well on so that you are prepared, so that the well will not dry when there are longer periods of drought. Those efforts are important. I am painting the broader picture because the interpeller is talking about the funding of 2nd, which exists today, and which supports the municipalities' crisis work in general againstslides or floods. It should be remembered that the grant in modern times has historically been at SEK 25 million a year. In recent years, the government has increased the grant to approximately SEK 70 million. There are still a great many applications for the grant. For 2018 I think ten new applications were received for the SEK 360 million grant to MSB. Annually, approximately SEK 70 million are paid out. That says something. It is not that there is an account with MSB that is investigated and could be used to make other efforts. That's what I'm trying to argue for. If you look at the issue, you have to look at the whole level. The municipality has the primary mission for this. But the County Administrative Board has a very large responsibility, and we are trying from the state to help. It is also mentioned in the interpellation response. If you are going to work long-term with this, what has been done from the government is about SEK 200 million that will be invested in wetlands. It is important to look at nature's own ability to keep water and thus replenish water storage over time. I think that's incredibly important. Here I was a little worried about the budget for this year that the Parliament voted for last year. There these 200 million dollars were removed. It is many times more than the SEK 25 million that we are now talking about that can be crisis support to the municipalities. It is important to be able to take a long-term stance. The government has now returned SEK 200 million. But there is not only 200 million to this. Now the SEK 200 million includes more things. It is not as much support for maintaining wetlands as we were trying to implement. The government is actively working on this. We will take it very seriously. It is important that the municipalities have their planning and also work preventively with this, but also the county boards have their responsibilities. If you are worried as a farmer, you should contact the municipality and the county administrative board to see what planning there is if it is so that the well runs down.
i-bb676b422f255d93-118	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. The Swedish National Audit Office's audit found that in several contexts the government has expressed a desire to strengthen crisis preparedness but in its governance has not done much to create clear conditions in the event of a crisis. I am thinking precisely of food security. Madam President, I would like Farmers undoubtedly have a lot of challenges. It is everything from the problem of being exposed to animal rights terrorists to the fact that it is a problem when people prefer to buy an organic product that has travelled around half the world than a locally produced salad from the farm next door, or when there is no food or water for soil or animals. What is the incentive? It is about these amazing people who get up in the dark to make sure that we have open landscapes, that we have Swedish fresh potatoes for midsummer and that there is Swedish milk for the coffee and for our children's school lunch. The food supply rate in Sweden has fallen to around 50 per cent. But we need to produce more food to cope with crises. In a long-term crisis of cut-off import routes, our food security is a disaster. Madam President, I would like Today, municipalities that have carried out or intend to carry out measures to prevent natural disasters in built-up areas can apply for grants via MSB for these measures. When such natural disasters occur in existing settlements, the costs to society are high. However, it is generally more profitable to prevent a natural disaster in built-up areas than to take the consequence when it occurs. In this context, natural disasters refer toslides, breeds or floods. Unfortunately, however, measures to deal with water scarcity or droughts are not included. We Moderates want to change the purpose of funding 2:2 Prevention of landslides and other natural disasters in the expenditure area Defence and society's emergency preparedness to also include water scarcity and drought. There are several possibilities to prevent water scarcity. For example, desalination plants would be very clever out in the archipelago. In the long term, the possibility of recycling water, for example for agriculture, must also be improved. Of course, we all need to act climate-smartly in our lives in order to limit the effects of climate change. It ultimately affects the amount of precipitation and the availability of water. But to support the municipalities in long-term prevention work we think is good. Doesn't the government think so?
i-bb676b422f255d93-126	Madam President, I would like It feels almost like that post was written in advance, because in the last post I explained that the grant was oversaw. The central hospital in Karlstad has been flood sheltered, and stability measures are being taken to protect the electricity supply in Partille. These municipalities are not more happy to take money from this appropriation and reduce society's emergency preparedness. The Moderates say that we will now use the money that is limited and remove the long-term measures for wetland efforts of SEK 200 million. That was the way in the budget that you voted. It's a lot bigger. The normal appropriation for this account is usually SEK 25 million. That's eight times more money you took away from preserving wetlands. You're going to use that grant for other things, even though it's been overexploited. This doesn't really make sense; you can't do that. I welcome the fact that the Moderates want to discuss how we work more preventively on this and provide support to the municipalities. But then it must be financed with real money, which is not taken from other urgent areas of emergency preparedness. The government is making historical investments in this area. We'll have the Swedish Food Agency work with a national drinking water council. We have several authorities that have been given new assignments for the area, and we will continue to give assignments. As far as farmers are concerned, we have developed – in what I see as broad political agreement – the first food strategy that Sweden has had in an incredibly long time. It's important. We are now working on the unique support that was decided after last year's drought both to farmers and to some other groups that were hit hard last year. This aid will now be paid out. In the long term, I fully share the view that civil defence preparedness in this area must be strengthened. It is also one of the starting points of the Defence Committee's focus work. There we are now working on the emergency preparedness of civil defence, and food security is an essential part of this. There are many areas in which we have reason to interact and to be long-term, because this is not a short-term problem. I am absolutely convinced that climate change will, unfortunately, affect both the risk of drought and other weather phenomena, and then society's preparedness must be increased. And it does, but then you also have to invest the money needed – not least to preserve wetlands and ensure that we have a good water supply in Sweden in the long term.
i-bb676b422f255d93-132	Madam President, I would like Oversearched grants or not – the intention is important. In the answer from the Government, we find out a lot about the money being invested in than one, than the other. But we never really know how the government ensures what the money goes to or how it is followed up. How do we get the desired results? Are the measures effective? That is a question to which I am happy to hear the Government's answer. How does the government intend to follow up the above measures? Madam President, I would like As I have previously mentioned, there are of course plenty that can be done and that we can do ourselves. In case of drought or water scarcity, it is especially important to follow the prohibition of fire, to deal carefully with open fire and so on. Of course, this should be done even when there is no prohibition of fire. Everyone must respect irrigation rules. Landowners who want to act longer-term can restore or build wetlands on their properties to prevent fires in nature. The matter of wetlands has been dealt with several times by the Government, and that is where we really agree. We also think that wetlands are important. However, we Moderates believe that both joint actions and a change in the purpose of funding are needed to create a much better opportunity to work preventively. Then I think we could go further than we do today. Madam President, I would like I shall return to the question I put earlier to Minister Damberg. What about the answer to the farmers? If the scarcity of water can be clearly predicted-- what would they have done?
i-bb676b422f255d93-136	Madam President, I would like This is an important interpellation on an important subject. This is not a question that will only be relevant this summer, but I think it is a long-term issue that is about climate change and changing weather phenomena. According to SMHI's, SGU's and others' forecasts, there is a high risk that several parts of Sweden will suffer from drought and longer periods of heat. The issue of water supply will then be crucial both for the business community and for municipalities and local residents. This is an important responsibility. The municipalities have the main overall responsibility for drinking water supply and must plan and work for this. But the county boards also have an important responsibility for this. The county administrative boards have been commissioned by the government to follow up on the planning, what measures have been taken and how to work strategically with the issues. At national level, we have now set up a National Drinking Water Council that brings together all actors to work systematically on these issues. This systematic work will continue, because we must not be careless about this. On the other hand, I must say that I do not believe that the very solution that the Moderates put forward in the interpellation debate is so wise. I believe that we need specific action on the natural phenomena for which we cannot plan quite as much. Many municipalities today have disadvantaged areas where large investments are needed. The central hospital in Karlstad and the electricity supply in Partille are just two examples of this. Taking resources away from them is not the solution. In addition, pairing this with the Moderates' budget, which went through in Parliament last year, and taking 200 million SEK and canceling the entire grant that went just to preserve and develop wetlands is short-term policy. The government now adds this money and broadens the mission part. This means that Sweden will have a better ability to work long-term with preserving wetlands and ensuring that the water supply in Sweden is maintained.
i-bb676b422f255d93-141	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked the Minister for Culture and Democracy, responsible for sports, how she views the sportsman's ability to conduct her sport in the future if the proposed over-implementment of the EU weapons directive is decided. Alexandra Anstrell has also asked how the Government thinks that Sweden will be able to maintain its leading position within the sportsman if it will not be able to travel with its weapons and if the Government intends to act to ensure that threats to a very large sport in Sweden will not have an impact in the implementation of the EU weapons directive. Finally, Alexandra Anstrell has asked whether the Government intends to act to simplify for these law-abiding sportsmen. The interpellation has been handed over to me. For a long time, Sweden has had arms legislation that maintains a high international level of protection. It therefore already meets in many respects the requirements of the amending directive. Due to several major terrorist attacks that occurred in 2015, the update of the EU Weapons Directive was accelerated. The purpose of the amending Directive is to counter, in a proportionate manner, the misuse of firearms for criminal activities or terrorist attacks. The amending directive provides us with a common minimum level in the EU for, among other things, the marking, registration and storage of firearms. Already during the negotiations of the directive, the government was actively working to ensure that the new rules would not be unduly burdensome for hunters and target-shooters. Even in the implementation of the Directive in Swedish legislation, the focus has been on the fact that the new rules will cause as little inconvenience as possible to hunters and target-shooters. However, Sweden – like all other EU countries – is, of course, obliged to implement the changes necessary to meet the requirements of the amending directive. The government's starting point in the legislative referral has been that the amendments are implemented at a minimum level, i.e. that the proposals should not go beyond what the directive requires. According to the Annex to the amending Directive, certain weapons previously categorised as category B weapons are moved to category A, prohibited weapons. It follows from the amending directive and not from the government's proposal. It is therefore a misconception that the government's proposal leads to a reclassification or that the categorisation is made in the government's draft law. Classification of weapons applies equally throughout the EU. The Government's legislative proposal provides for a review of the authorisation of certain weapons every five years, which is already taking place today for fully automatic weapons and one-handed multi-shot weapons. However, the re-examination does not affect the categorisation of weapons. Within the EU, minimum aviation safety rules apply. It is permissible for individual Member States to have stricter rules. It is also up to each airline to decide whether weapons should be transported. If airlines choose to refuse someone to fly, it is because of their own guidelines, not because of Swedish law. The legislative changes proposed by the government will not affect the possibility for target-shooters – whether Swedish target-shooters or other EU citizens – to fly with weapons.
i-bb676b422f255d93-151	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. However, I am a little disappointed with the answer; excuse me for my frankness. I do not feel that I have really got answers to my questions. I had also expected that the responsible Minister for Sport could be here to take responsibility for his questions and answer asked questions. I know a lot of people around Sports Sweden are with us listening now. Hello! One of my questions was how the Minister for Sport sees the sportsman's ability to conduct his sport in the future if the previously proposed over-implementing of the EU weapons directive is decided. I also wondered how Sweden would be able to retain its leading position in the sporting field if you can't travel with your weapons.
i-bb676b422f255d93-157	I can only interpret the Minister for Sport's, i.e. Environmental Party Minister Amanda Lind, the total lack of answers here today as having no interest whatsoever in one of Sweden's biggest sports. I must be grateful that the government still takes the time to send a representative here on a Monday like this at the beginning of June, although I have not really received answers to my questions. Madam President, I would like On this issue, which concerns the problem of Sweden's sportsmen if the government's previous proposal for the over-implementing of the EU's arms directive were to go through, I think it is important to keep things separate and not to confuse things unnecessarily, because then it becomes unclear, and then it is easy for things to be misunderstood and misinterpreted. The first concerns this with the EU arms directive. This is supposed to be about the implementation of the EU weapons directive. If the government or parliament wants to make changes to the Arms Act for other reasons, it should be taken in special order. Otherwise, it can easily be misinterpreted that it would be the EU arms directive that requires certain changes that do not require it. Madam President, I would like You're hearing how twisted this can get. The second concerns the owners of legal weapons and the owners of illegal weapons. It's the illegals we want to get to. We do not do this with the Government's previous proposal for implementation. It is an over-implementment which only punishes the law-abiding and which has little effect on the owners of illegal weapons. It is clear that we want measures to get access to the illegal weapons that are flourishing in Sweden. They're the ones who do the most damage. Last year, Brå reported 6,700 gun crimes. Customs seized only 41 weapons during the same year. We had 306 shootings on the street last year, and this year we've already had over 100 shootings. Unfortunately, Madam President, this will not be changed because the government makes it more difficult for law-abiding people to practise their sport. If you look at the EU's arms directive, you can see that it is clear that this can be implemented with minimalist measures, because the idea of the directive was to harmonise so that the whole of the EU can keep up with it. And Sweden is with us. The Damberg Government has also replied in its speech that it is a common minimum level in the EU. I've been looking at some other interpellation debates. Last year, your colleague in the government, Minister Johansson, said: I want to have this said, because I have seen that there are many myths on social media. We would like to describe it as wanting to take further steps to make it more difficult. No, we won't. ..................................................... Nevertheless, we are standing here today with a proposal that would be an over-implementation. Does the Government not find it a bit odd to say that the proposal you have tabled in the past goes no further than the European Union's demands when you go beyond the directive on a number of points and even admit in the Council of Law referral that you do not make use of all the possibilities for exceptions?
i-bb676b422f255d93-168	Madam President, I would like You can back down. It is the implementation of the EU weapons directive that we are dealing with – everyone following the debate may not be fully aware of it. It is not something that the government has made up, but it was a joint EU decision. I believe, for example, that our parties in the European Parliament voted in favour of applying more uniform rules in the European Union. This is important, because Sweden has had an arms legislation that has had a high international standard, so we are already meeting most of the requirements of the new arms directive. On certain issues, however, we need to amend our legislation in order to meet the minimum requirements. I have no ambition to over-implement this, just as Morgan Johansson replied earlier. On the other hand, I have an interest in maintaining the minimum level in the European Union. If several countries in the EU had had a functioning registration of weapons, re-evaluation of weapons and the marking of weapons, we would not have had as many illegal weapons as had come into Sweden. It is really my primary interest as Minister for the Interior – that we get up the level of arms legislation in other countries that have not had such legislation in the past. Back to Sweden. We have had a special investigator who has looked at the European directive. The more concrete proposal from the government was that he would propose not an over-implementation but a minimum implementation based on it. His suggestion came. We sent it out for a referral. It got a lot of criticism. We amended the proposal. We were sort of trying to plug in where there were points of view. Maybe he didn't come to the right conclusion. Perhaps it could be interpreted in some way. Nevertheless, there is great criticism of the government's proposal. The problem for me, as the minister responsible, is that time is ticking and passing. The implementation of the directive was due to take place last year. Now there is a risk that the EU will come back and impose fines on Sweden, which tick each month because we do not implement a common directive. That's not good. I don't think anyone likes that. Then I'm a little surprised. However, I would like to say that this is rather awkward. You almost have to be a lawyer in order to be able to interpret all the rules of the EU arms directive so that you end up right. We've had a lawyer who's interpreted it. Then there are others who argue: No, it is not the right interpretation. There is room for other interpretations. Then I have invited you to an open discussion on this. I invited the bourgeois parties to deliberate. No, you didn't want to come. I said: I can then present some sort of changed proposal when I have tried to listen to you. What do you think is important? No, we're not coming. You must present your proposal before we arrive at any meeting. It is possible that they do this nowadays in the Riksdag, but I have never experienced during my time in the Riksdag that parties do not want to come when the government wants to discuss how legislation should be drafted wisely. I will try to take this issue forward. I will try to be as constructive as I can be. But, frankly, there are elements in the Weapons Directive that go beyond Swedish arms legislation and that mean that we need to change our systems slightly to meet the new common minimum standards. I don't think any of our parties come from that. Then I think we are quite in agreement in this House that the implementation of the arms directive is about implementing a weapons directive. It is not about reducing in any way the legislation we have had in Sweden. I have heard very few representatives say that. I believe and still hope that we will find a way forward, but it is quite difficult and legal. My honest starting point is that we should not lower our requirements in Sweden, but neither should we over-implement the EU arms directive.
i-bb676b422f255d93-179	Madam President, I would like The government spoke very much before the 2018 elections that it would not introduce any changes that made it difficult for hunters or shooters. Instead, you would simplify. With regard to the proposal that has been sent out, I wonder: can the Government describe how the rule you want to introduce, which in practice would put an end to international competitions in many shooting branches, is to simplify or facilitate? The government said time is ticking and running. Indeed, the fact that the government has not presented a bill cannot be blamed on the opposition. We are, of course, wondering why the government has forced the matter so that it did not come to the Committee on Justice in the scheduled time before the European elections in May. Madam President, I would like I've been talking to shooters on the national team. They say that they are extremely relieved that the government's proposal that was submitted to the Law Council has not become a reality. Had the proposal entered into force, the World Championships could not have been held in dynamic shooting in August this year because the foreign shooters then could not have brought their competitive weapons into Sweden without committing weapons crimes. This is difficult, just as the Government was concerned. You need to be a lawyer, and you need to understand a lot of things that you may not be doing daily. But I think that I should still be educational, because there are many who listen. Madam President, I would like In one hand, I have a pen to symbolize a class B weapon. In my second hand, I have a pen like it, which means that I have to symbolise a similar weapon – a class B weapon. To the pen in one hand I now add a different type of pen. It may symbolize a magazine of more than ten cartridges. Then it is the combination in that hand that would be categorized as Class A weapons. In my second hand, I still have a Class B weapon. If I remove the magazine, it's still a semi-automatic weapon in Class B. It's never really the case that the weapon changes, it's the combination. In the Government's proposal, which was out for a referral, it is proposed that a semi-automatic weapon capable of taking a warehouse with more than ten cartridges should be categorized as Class A. Then all law-abiding shooters around Sweden who own class B weapons and who only want to practice their sport would be affected. How does the Government think the government's proposal would make our sportsmen easier? And how does the Government think that this proposal for over-implementation would reduce the illegal arms trade and reduce terror?
i-bb676b422f255d93-185	Madam President, I would like We're working on trying to find a way forward. We are trying to interpret what different parties have thought. Since the parties do not want to come to a discussion on this, it is not a simple process for the government to deal with. I am very surprised that the parties choose not to come to meetings to discuss how to move forward on a common issue. Given this, we will try to move forward, and we may have to come back to those questions once we have presented it. Just to make the last question a little more complicated, you should be aware that it would mean two permits instead of one: a permit when you don't have the magazine in and a permit when you have the magazine in. So it is not that you do not need a permit at all, but in such a way you will need two permits. It is not entirely logical why it would reduce administration and make it easier for large groups in Sweden. The question of classification is not dealt with by the government, but the different types of weapons are classified in the annex. This will still apply. We will continue to look at this constructively, but we cannot fail to implement the arms directive either. It also means that the simplifications that I have talked about earlier in this speaker's chair dealing with the arms curtain and the time for authorisation testing may be dealt with in a separate product, as this is a response to the EU arms directive. We are looking forward to how we can move forward with several changes that can also facilitate everyday life and reality for both sportsmen and hunters, but right now my focus is on the fact that we must somehow find a way forward around the EU weapons directive. I have no other ambitions than that, firstly, that we should not lower the legislation we have in Sweden and, secondly, that we should not over-implement the arms directive.
i-bb676b422f255d93-190	Madam President, I would like I am new to Parliament, but I have understood that the government is making a proposal, that is to say a proposal, on which we will later be able to express our views. We are also prepared to do so. Last night a shooting was reported in my municipality of Västerhaninge, where my daughter passes almost daily on her way to and from her school. You know, I believe that Minister Damberg and I are equally concerned that these shootings will end in Sweden. On the other hand, I do not share the view that the proposal that the government has previously sent out would put an end to it. I wonder how the Government intends to simplify for our law-abiding sportsmen. How can they travel if their weapons are classified as weapons of war? In the case of the carriage of weapons by air, there are international rules which say that each airline itself can choose whether or not to transport sporting weapons, but that authorisation is required from all the countries involved, including for overflights, in particular in the case of weapons of war. Madam President, I would like Since these permits are the responsibility of the airline to acquire at its own expense, it is highly probable that it will not be possible to transport a category A weapon on the aircraft if the Government's proposal for implementation is passed. This is the last turn of today's debate and, as I mentioned earlier, I wonder if Minister Damberg can describe how the rule you want to introduce and which in practice would put an end to international competitions in many shooters is to make it easier for the sportsmen.
i-bb676b422f255d93-195	Madam President, I would like I have already answered the question of how, not least, the lawyers of the Government Office view the issue of the liability of airlines, that there are no different rules in the various EU countries and that it is not Swedish legislation that forms the basis for the categorisation, but the annex to the arms directive. On the other hand, I will say that it will not be right if it is described as me standing here saying that we should implement the EU arms directive because I think it would solve the problem of all illegal weapons. I don't think so. On the other hand, we must implement the EU arms directive. We should have done it last year, and if we do not, we will soon start paying fines to the EU for this – money that will be taken from the police or other important authorities. I do not want that, and that is why I want to implement the EU arms directive. I would also like to see a minimum level of arms registration and handling in the EU, because it is of great importance to us. What we have done in the case of illegal weapons, in addition to strengthening the Police Authority, which is growing as an agency with more police employees and a pool of forces in the vulnerable areas where the police today say that it is cautiously moving in the right direction, is to implement an amnesty of weapons where I think 12 000 weapons were collected and thus are away from the market in Sweden, which is very good. We have administrative cooperation between different authorities to get to this, and we are giving customs increased resources to work against the introduction of illegal weapons. This will continue. In addition, we have introduced a new, stricter arms legislation in Sweden that means that if you have a weapon illegally you will as a rule be detained. This means that today the police are arresting five times more for serious gun crimes than just a few years ago. So we're going after the illegal weapons. On the other hand, unfortunately, we must implement a weapons directive which not only facilitates but also gives some weight because our Swedish rules do not look exactly as the arms directive allows. However, I still look forward to some form of constructive dialogue with the bourgeois parties about finding a way forward, where we implement the arms directive as cleverly as possible that does not unnecessarily complicate.
i-bb676b422f255d93-202	Madam President, I would like Pål Jonson has asked me whether the government shares the view expressed by its expert authorities that there are still serious deficiencies in the field of information and cyber security, whether the new Information and Cyber Security Centre will interact with the business community in order to share information on threats and risks in the cyber environment and whether the Centre will have a specific authority as its principal, and whether the Government intends to introduce a cybersecurity coordinator at the Government Office with mandates and resources to keep cybersecurity issues together and whether, in that case, the coordinator can also conduct a direct dialogue with the relevant authorities. I will answer the three questions in turn. The short answer to the first question is yes. The Government shares the views of the expert authorities. Cyber threats are one of our most complex security challenges. On the basis of the letter National strategy for society's information and cyber security, the government has taken a number of measures. The government has developed legislation that in several ways tightens the requirements for authorities and companies. For example, this is a new act on security of information for essential and digital services, the NIS Act. The government has increased the resources for our expert authorities so that they can raise their ambitions in their operations. The government has also intensified the governance of the authorities through various missions and reporting requirements. In addition, the Government has commissioned several expert authorities to develop support for authorities, municipalities, regions, companies and the public. Between 2017 and 2018, the Government has carried out about fifty activities that contribute to achieving the objectives of the national strategy. But we need to do more, which leads to the second question. With regard to the second issue of the national centre announced by the Prime Minister in the Government Declaration to enhance the security of intelligence and cyber security, intensive work is currently under way on the establishment of such a centre. The government's starting point is that we will establish a centre that meets the needs we have in Sweden. We shall, of course, draw inspiration and lessons from other countries, but it must be designed in such a way that it supports and strengthens the system that we already have. However, what the details of the centre will look like is too early to say. We'll have to get back to you on that. To answer the third question, the government's starting point is that all policy areas need to work on information and cyber security. All ministers have a clear responsibility for information and cyber security issues within their area of responsibility. In order to increase information and cyber security in society, this perspective needs to be integrated into all policies and into government governance. In order to gain a better holistic perspective and increased synergies between ministries, there is a coordinating function at the Council of State's Committee on Cyber Affairs, which will support the work of the Government Office in the establishment of a national cybersecurity centre. The function does not take over any liability or has a direct link with the authorities.
i-bb676b422f255d93-208	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for the answer to my interpellation! I appreciate that the Minister for the Interior's response is humbled by the challenges facing Sweden in the area of cybersecurity. I think it is both wise and reasonable. Sweden is less equipped than many other comparable countries in this area. The contradiction in Sweden is that we are strong in digitalisation but weak in cybersecurity. In the Global Security Index, which was presented only a few months ago, Sweden came in fifth place when it came to be the world's most digitised country. When we evaluated our cybersecurity, however, we first arrived at location 32. This creates a very unfortunate combination of a very large dependence on digital solutions while we have quite weak security in these digital solutions. It may sound paradoxical, Madam President, to be good at digitalisation and bad at cybersecurity, but the Swedish cybersecurity problems are not about us not having an innovative IT industry. We have world-leading companies when it comes to the area of encryption. The problems in Sweden are, instead, about the shortcomings in organisation and structure both within the Government Office and in the government authorities. There is a weak supervisory and safety culture among many authorities. There is a fragmentation of resources and constitutional support is unclear in this area, Madam President. We have the order in Sweden that there are four ministers and at least eight authorities leaning against four different laws. It is not optimally formulated if we want effective cybersecurity. Above all, Madam President, clear political leadership – what is in English called management attention – is required if we want to put an end to the serious deficiencies that exist in the field of cyber security in Sweden. It has been broken for far too long, both during the government that Mikael Damberg represents and during the eight years that the Alliance was in power – I want to be clear about that. It leads to the questions in my interpellation about clear political leadership. The Minister for the Interior said in his reply that there is intensive work going on at government level to set up a new centre, but how the details of the centre should be designed is too early to say anything about. Madam President, I would like That answer gives me cause for concern in my world. The two questions I asked in my interpellation did not concern details but fundamental building blocks for the design of the centre. Who's gonna be the head of the center? It should not be an authority of its own. It matters whether it's FRA or MSB. If it becomes FRA, there is likely to be a greater focus on information security and sharing information from signal intelligence. If there is MSB, there may be a greater focus on security. It matters who's the head man. More importantly, what role the Centre should perform and how it should be organised is more important. Here is the central question of whether the centre will interact with the private business community. It is a fundamental idea in the British Centre, which I know Mikael Damberg has recently visited, that it should be an effective collaboration. I also noted that, during the EU election movement, Mikael Damberg was out saying that the EU will establish a European-level centre to work to protect against industrial espionage and strengthen the protection of companies against various types of cyber attacks. If this is to be desired at European level, it should be a matter of course that the Centre should address these issues at national level. Madam President, I would like I'd like a clarification. Do I understand the Minister for the Interior correctly when he says that the work on setting up the centre goes with high intensity but that the government has no idea how the center should be organised or whether it should be able to interact with the business community in order to prevent various forms of cyberattack?
i-bb676b422f255d93-216	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pål Jonson, for an important interpellation! I also thank you for the tone of the debate on the fact that we in Sweden have not taken the issues seriously over time. I believe that both our parties have a responsibility for this from a political point of view. We should be humble enough to say that the paradox described is partly an explanation, that is, that we have been alert to new technologies. The fact that we have for a long time wanted to drive digitalisation also in public administration has meant that we have built systems. Those systems, which are old-fashioned today, were developed without enough thinking on cybersecurity issues. Now it takes some time to turn old systems into more modern and safer systems. The fact that we were at the forefront and that we did not take those issues seriously means that there are more challenges to change systems, even if completely new systems are being built up. These systems are interrelated. That is no excuse, but it may explain why there are some extra challenges. It is a question of government and public access, and as an old Minister of Economic Affairs, I can say that some of the private business sector have not taken the issues seriously either. We have seen this in some infringement and patent issues, which are important for Swedish technology. It is incredibly important that these issues are raised in the Riksdag and in the government. We now have our first national strategy in this area, and there is now an action plan from the responsible authorities. A centre shall be established. All of this is a way for us, together with tougher legislation, to tighten up the requirements for reporting and preparation work. We take the issues very seriously. It may be that I was a little short in my response to the cybercenter. I've been to London looking at it. The reason is that we do not want to be drawn into a discussion where we describe the centre in detail. My starting point is that the four authorities, and some other authority, which have great interests in these matters and which today works most with the issues should be those who direct the direction and make their mark. There is a risk that if we create a centre alongside the responsible authorities, which will link to these authorities, we will do things that do not increase the ability – that there will be no more of it for the money with the new center. Therefore, I would like the authorities to agree as far as possible in their description of the needs when they come to the government. One strategy is to get the responsible authorities to talk together to get the best outcome from a center. On the other hand, it is quite obvious that we have political ambitions. I would be very surprised if we were to set up a centre that does not say that it should interact with the business community as a dimension. That would be very surprising. We will have comments, but we would like the authorities to come to us as closely as possible. If we are to build a centre based on a Swedish concept, we need to understand who has responsibility in the Swedish system, so that we do not do overlapping or unnecessary things but instead get the most At least that is the starting point for the government's work on these issues. J ag, several of my ministerial colleagues and the new coordinator at the Council of State Committee follow up and work very closely on this issue.
i-bb676b422f255d93-224	Madam President, I would like I would be surprised if Mikael Damberg were surprised. The government governs the kingdom and is responsible for its authorities. It is for the government to have a clear political will. The directives must make it clear that the issue is a priority and that it should be an interaction with industry. That is where political will and governance have broken in the past in this area. I see two strong reasons why the cyber centre must be able to communicate information about threats and risks in the cyber environment. This is particularly true of those companies that operate socially important activities and critical infrastructure. Firstly, it is about Sweden's security. Most of the current activities in areas such as telecommunications, transport and the financial sector are carried out by private operators. We are simply dependent on companies not being hit by large-scale cyber attacks, if we want to secure Sweden's functionality. We must, Mikael Damberg, get a much more effective interaction between the private and the public in the field of cyber security. Secondly, Madam President, the issue is Sweden's prosperity. We know that the state-sanctioned cyber attacks and cyber espionage have increased dramatically in the last three years. This is evident, among other things, in the annual report by Mr Säpo, which clearly attributes China's activities in this area. I welcome the fact that Mr Säpo is clear about this. If Sweden is to continue to be a world leader in research, development and innovation, we must be able to offer companies a secure trading venue, what the British call Safe Marketplace UK. One aspect of the work is to ensure that companies can obtain information if they are exposed to large-scale cyber attacks. There are already examples, Madam President, of companies that have chosen to extend their research and development activities in Sweden to other countries, as other countries can offer better protection through better cooperation between authorities and companies when and if they are exposed to large-scale cyber attacks. This is an issue linked to Sweden's long-term prosperity. I noted last morning, Madam President, that the audit firm PWC presented a report. They had interviewed a hundred representatives of large Swedish companies. 83% of them perceived that the cyber security offered in Sweden is too low for their needs. It calls for reflection. Madam President, I would like Precisely to address the lack of political governance of cybersecurity issues at the Government Office, Sweden should, like a large number of other countries, have introduced a cybersecurity coordinator. Now the Minister of the Interior said in his reply that the government has introduced a coordinator– I don't know if it's coordinator or coordinator, but it doesn't really matter– that better helps to create a holistic approach to the issues and achieve increased synergies. The coordinator shall also support the creation of a cyber centre. This is actually the first time I have heard the government present this. Properly designed, I believe that the function can play a very important role in actually getting the coordination in the Government Office in cyber security matters in order. But in that case, three measures are needed. Firstly, the function must be formalised and permanentised. Otherwise, Mikael Damberg will not have an impact on the Government Office. Secondly, there must be a clear mandate for the function of dialogue with the authorities. Then, like Mikael Damberg, I know that it is the individual departments that issue regulatory letters, but I believe that the function must be able to talk to the authorities. That's where the muscles of cybersecurity work are. Thirdly, the function must be given resources, reasonably in the form of a secretariat. It is not possible for a person alone to be responsible for coordinating cybersecurity issues at the Government Office. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Home Affairs whether he shares the view that the coordinator or coordinator should have a clear mandate, resources and opportunity to engage in dialogue with the authorities. I think it is important that we get this issue right.
i-bb676b422f255d93-236	Madam President, I would like I note that we seem to agree on the first part of the last speech on the interaction between private and public. I just want to link it once again to the fact that private companies are also responsible for increasing and working with their cyber security. They cannot leave that responsibility to anyone else. But collaboration can make us even stronger together and deter us from attacking or trespassing in Sweden. In addition, society has some unique abilities that private companies do not have. It is clear that it is an important issue to discuss whether the circle of organisations that are allowed to take part in this – today authorities and state-owned companies – is to be expanded because we also have private companies that are responsible for social critical activities. I think it is an important discussion to have, and it is fully in line with the discussions we are having. As for the cybercoordinator, it is a new service, so of course we need to develop it over time. One dimension that was not mentioned here is the international work. Much of the work to combat this has international dimensions. We have, above all, European, but also other international partners in this, which are crucial for a government office and a government to have. Here we get an overall structure where the Council of State Committee is also given a clearer mandate to work with these issues and coordinate the work in the Government Office but, again, not assume all responsibility. The responsibility lies with the respective trade minister, so it must not be that someone relaxes because we now have a coordinator at the Prime Minister's Committee. That is not how it should be done. The issue is linked to the Security Policy Council linked to the Prime Minister. That is why we have chosen to make the link with the Prime Minister through the Security Council. I hope that this is a function that will prove to be successful and that we will have to develop it over time. But it is also an example of how important we believe this issue is and that we intend to strengthen our work in the future.
i-bb676b422f255d93-242	Madam President, I would like I do not think that there is any risk of the unions relaxing on this issue. On the contrary, I believe that they are looking after their interests fairly carefully. My concern is therefore that the coordinator or coordinator cannot get the clear mandate needed to keep the work together. It's in the nature of things. I would like to return to the rather serious situation that Sweden is in on cybersecurity. There have been too many reports such as the Global Security Index showing that we are lagging behind in the cyber security field. I know that the government has taken a number of measures recently, but we cannot afford to be worse than other comparable countries in this area. The threats and risks in the cyber environment are increasing exponentially, and the gap between digitalisation and security continues to grow. This is according to all the government's expert authorities. This trend must be reversed, ultimately because this threatens both Sweden's security and Sweden's prosperity. The foundation for better cybersecurity in Sweden is laid, as I said before, through clear political leadership combined with management attention. The government simply needs to know what it wants to achieve in the cybersecurity field rather than simply listing the number of activities. I would like to conclude by mentioning three areas where I do not think it has turned out well enough. Firstly, the government presented an information and cybersecurity strategy. It was Sweden's last country in the EU to do. The strategy contained 68 objectives and milestones, divided into 29 pages. But a strategy should contain three M: objectives, means and method. This strategy was weak in terms of both the means that the government intends to provide and the methods by which it will achieve the objectives. Secondly, if we are launching a cybersecurity centre, I think it is important that we have decided from the outset what we want to achieve and what tasks this centre should have. Therefore, it is hugely important that the government is clear that it must be able to promote better dialogue between the business community and the public in order to strengthen Sweden's cyber security. Thirdly, give the coordinator a clear mandate, resources and a clear task! Then it'll be better.
i-bb676b422f255d93-249	Madam President, I would like It is important that this issue is discussed in the Riksdag. This is an area where Sweden has decided to strengthen its preparedness and ability. For the first time in Sweden, we formulated a national information and cyber security strategy. In March, the experts' authorities in Samfi presented an action plan containing 77 actions that the authorities are now implementing individually or together with others. There is therefore a lot of implementation work on the basis of the strategy. We won't settle for that. We will continue and come back with new initiatives in this area. What I see as the big challenge to keep up the momentum in this future is much about consciousness. There I would like to say that Sweden at the top level, the tip level, has high competence in this area. Not only in the crypto field, but also in the field of signal reconnaissance, there are experts who are incredibly good at this. What we have problems with is the general level of security in our systems, which must be raised. It's a lot about people. It is about competence and education for Sweden to keep up with the development, both in private companies and in the public system. The government will continue to monitor this. We have taken a great many initiatives in recent years. We will continue to keep pace in this, for Sweden will be able to both stay far ahead in digitalisation and ensure that the security gap does not grow over time when we are at the forefront of digital solutions. At least that is the starting point for us, and I believe that Sweden will also be able to show its feet in this area.
i-bb676b422f255d93-253	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me if I share the view that it is important that many people have the opportunity to own their own home. Furthermore, he has asked me what measures I and the government have taken in recent years to make it easier for more young people to own their homes and what measures I and the government intend to take to enable more young people to move from home and into their first home. Lars Beckman has also asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to enable more young people to own their homes and what measures I intend to take to facilitate the building of more housing for young people. Finally, he has asked me what the most important explanations are that housing construction – according to Lars Beckman – is expected to collapse in 2019, when 800 000 more housing would have to be built to solve the housing needs by 2030. It is important, together with the municipalities, to help create a housing supply that meets both needs and demand around the country. In addition to continuing new production of dwellings with different tenure forms, mobility needs to increase in the housing market. This is in order for there to be a variety of housing suitable for everyone. I see, of course, issues relating to young people's entry into the housing market as central, as I have pointed out in a previous interpellation response. Residential building has grown strongly since 2012. According to SCB and Bover ket, approximately 67 500 dwellings were started in 2017, which is the highest figure since 1990. According to preliminary figures, 56,000 dwellings started in 2018. It is the government's assessment that approximately 50,000 homes will start in 2019. The number of building permits has increased in the last two quarters, and residential construction continues to be at high levels historically. For several years of sharp rise in prices, the stabilisation of price developments, one we now see as positive for households entering the housing market. In order to create long-term conditions for a balanced housing building, a holistic approach is needed. The January agreement has a clear focus on housing issues, and I would like to emphasise that the points in the agreement are interrelated in terms of improving the functioning of the housing market. Extensive regulatory simplifications to simplify and shorten the planning process and thus make it faster and cheaper to build will be implemented. In addition, interest on deferred amounts shall be removed and a comprehensive tax reform shall be carried out. In accordance with the January agreement, more housing is needed to make it easier for young people to get their first home. In this context, I would like to mention in the evaluation support for rental housing and housing for students, which was introduced during the last term of office. The investment aid for rental apartments introduced during the previous mandate period has been granted for more than 20 000 apartments. The support is an important tool for creating the conditions for building rental apartments throughout the country with reasonable rents that more people can demand, including young people. The Government intends to come back with proposals on how the investment support can continue to be designed.
i-bb676b422f255d93-258	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have therefore submitted an interpellation to the Government on the basis of the Boinstitutet's study, which asked about 3 000 young people between the ages of 15 and 24 in Sweden how they would like to live in the future. 40 per cent of Sweden's young people replied that they wanted to live in a owned villa, 31 per cent replied that they wanted to live in a right-of-occupancy apartment and about 17 per cent replied that they wanted to live in a tenancy apartment. It was 1 percent who said they wanted to live with a friend in an apartment, and that's good. This is the background to the interpellation. It is clear from the Government's response that the government seems to lack a policy for more young people to own their housing. I may find it unfair to today's young people that they do not have the opportunity to own their home. In this interpellation, I have asked what the government is doing to make it easier for more people to own their homes, but in recent years, on the contrary, a number of different measures have been taken that have made it difficult for young people to own their homes. The Stockholm Chamber of Commerce produced an important report last week – I am sure the Minister of Housing has already read the report – where an experienced professor tells us that the latest amortisation requirement is a misguided policy that has made it difficult for young people to buy even one in Stockholm. Madam President, I would like In many residential areas in Sweden, 40-talists built villas in their 25s or 30s. I grew up in Boden, where there are residential areas called Heden and Sävast. There were young 25 or 30-year-olds who formed a family and bought their home. In Gävle there are residential areas such as Sätra, Bomhus, Valbo and others, where many 40-talists in their 25s had the opportunity to build a dwelling and move to a villa. Their children grew up in residential areas. I may find it unfair that the grandchildren of the 40's now do not have the same opportunity, but are excluded from the housing market and the possibility of owning their housing. I note that the Government refers in its reply to the investment aid for rental rights with which the Government intends to return. But that was not the question I asked, but my question was about how more people should have the opportunity to own their housing. We Moderates have said this: any government legislative simplification that makes it easier, better and cheaper to build, we will support. I note that the proposal put forward by the government for the spring is about facilitating the construction of patios. Building permits must be granted for patios. Of course, we Moderates will support that. But I do not think that this measure for a moment helps more young people to get their first home or to own their home. An active government policy is needed here. Active action is needed. I do not believe that it can be made as simple as the Government does, as he says in the interpellation response that it is the responsibility of the municipalities. In any case, it is not Gävle municipality, for example, that imposes amortisation requirements, but decisions taken by state authorities and to some extent by the government. Of course it should be an interaction between municipalities and states, but the main responsibility for ensuring that the 40th-century grandchildren can move to their villa actually has the government.
i-bb676b422f255d93-266	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, for urgent interpelling on housing issues! I appreciate that. These are issues that need to be debated, and I hope that we can continue to debate them. It is so, Lars Beckman, that the housing market is connected. Changes in one segment also affect other segments of the housing market. If there are more rental apartments available through an active housing policy, which the government now has, in contrast to how it has been in Sweden for a long time, since they have had a very passive housing policy and kept their hands off, it also affects the supply and price development of the owned portfolio. When Boverket makes surveys of municipalities about the housing shortage, the municipalities point to the lack of rental apartments in particular. To stand here in Parliament's pulpit and claim that there is no problem in the rental market, I think is misdirected. There is, well-confirmed, a large shortage of rental apartments. When tens of thousands of new rental apartments come with reasonable rents, because we have investment aid, it affects the entire housing market. The measures that Lars Beckman criticizes and calls for misguided policies are those for which many other economic assessors strongly support. There is widespread criticism of the high level of indebtedness in Sweden. It points to this as the greatest risk to the entire financial system and the economy in Sweden. Finansinspektionen, the Riksbank, the Swedish National Debt Office, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund – I can continue to list instances both in Sweden and internationally – points to this as a major risk factor. To just turn a blind eye to it and pretend that nothing happens as if you can be the donor of all good gifts and give credit to anyone in any case to me is not a serious way to tackle either the economy or the housing issue. Lars Beckman is old enough to be able to recall the 90s crisis, when the financial system did not carry, and what effect it had on the housing market. At that time, housing construction fell dramatically. I hope, however, that we agree that we should try to avoid such a situation, and then it is not good to pretend that there is no reason to actually have any kind of credit restrictions. These are things that can create stability over time in the financial system. However, I would like to oppose some expressions that Lars Beckman uses. He says young people are being shut out of the housing market. That's not what comes out when you look at the statistics. In the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority's Mortgage Survey, where surveys are conducted with those who take mortgages and are on the market, it appears that the proportion of mortgage holders who are young today is as high as it was in 2012. So there has been no change there. On the other hand, they borrow a little less and simply buy a home that has a slightly lower price. It may be a little further outside the city centre or a little smaller in square meters. This reduces one's indebtedness and hence the financial risks to one's family and one's family, but also to the economic system. There is also a very topical example where you can see what the impact of Lars Beckman's policy is. In Denmark, where mortgage-free loans were introduced in the early 2000s with the argument that it would make it easier for young people to enter the housing market, the effect was not at all what Lars Beckman claims. On the contrary, it made no difference for young people. No more young people came to the housing market. On the other hand, all groups could borrow more, and this meant that prices on the housing market rose, everything else equal, which of course did not make it easier for those who are young and want to enter the housing market. I think we need to have a discussion. We are prepared to discuss various proposals to give young people better opportunities to enter the housing market. I've reported some of my interpellation responses. I hope that we can continue the discussion, but seriously.
i-bb676b422f255d93-274	Madam President, I would like Apparently, the Minister of Housing has not read the report from the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. I recommend it. It's good reading. It states that 80 per cent of those living in Stockholm are excluded from the housing market because they do not have the necessary salary to buy a one in Stockholm. Why is the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Chamber of Commerce and other business organisations involved in this matter? Well, of course, because it's impossible to recruit people. There are needs, and you have services to be filled, but it is not possible to appoint them with someone who is moving to Stockholm, because you cannot get a place to live. This is a real social problem. I think my question was straightforward: what measures have the Government taken in recent years to make it easier for more young people to own their homes? Does the Minister of Housing mean that the substantial changes in credit restrictions have made it easier for young people to get housing? I am not sure that this is the answer, but the Government is happy to develop what policy has been pursued to make it easier for young people to own their homes. I think it is reasonable that even the grandchildren of the 40's should have the opportunity to move to a villa. If four out of ten young people actually want to live in a villa, I think politics should work for it. If 30% wants to live in a tenant-ownership apartment, I think that politics should devote its energies to it, not to combating the possibility of living in owned housing. I think that is a wrong starting point in politics. You can see that this is a city and country question. According to the Boinstitutet's study, those living in urban areas prefer the right of residence, while those living in landsor t, such as Gävle, want to live in a villa. In fact, I think that politics has a responsibility for this. I think that politics has a responsibility to make it easier for more people to own their homes, just as they did when the 40th-century residential areas were built. In Gävle, Boden and Åkersberga – around Sweden, residential areas were built in the early 70s. I do not understand why we should not be able to pursue a policy that enables people to own their housing even today, especially given that it is so young people who want to live. I have every respect that the patios will be freed from building permits. It is certainly an important issue, and we Moderates will support any simplification of the rules presented by the Minister for Housing. The only problem is that a proposal has been made throughout the spring. A single proposal has been put forward, namely the one on building permits-free terraces. I have not seen any other government proposals to make it easier for more young people to own their homes. It would be appropriate for the Government to take this opportunity to present what has been done to make it easier for more young people to own their housing, which according to all the studies available is the form of housing that young people themselves choose. Then we have moderates nothing against rents. On the contrary, we obviously need a diversity – a palette – of different forms of housing. But perhaps the government has had such a strong focus on rentals that it may have forgotten the form of housing that young people and others themselves want to prioritise. In addition, when it comes to saving, a owned dwelling is often a household's only long-term saving. From all points of view, it is therefore good if people have the opportunity to own their housing, not least for the financial reasons that the Government in other contexts tend to be concerned about. Present now: What has the Minister of Housing done to make it easier for more young people to own their home?
i-bb676b422f255d93-282	Mr President, I would like to I'd be happy to tell you what we've done. We are proud that we are pursuing a much more active housing policy than Sweden has had for a long time, not least when compared with the alliance government's eight years in the Government Office. This is also evident in the fact that we have a much higher rate of construction than Sweden has had in a long time. Now more than 50 000 homes come out annually, compared with an average of about half during the Alliance's time in power. It has been so intense that SCB recently issued a press release stating that in 2018, 42,844 residential apartments were completed in newly built residential blocks of flats. That is 20 per cent more than in the previous year and the highest since 1973. So you have to go back 45 years to find the same level of housing construction, at least in that segment. This is of course very pleasing, because part of the solution is to build more than has been done historically. Lars Beckman rallies a lot about building permits-free patios. This is an announcement from the Riksdag that we are now delivering, so the Riksdag could not have made that announcement if you thought this was unimportant. However, this is only a small step – we have a major study on more modern building regulations that are currently reviewing the entire regulatory framework and will deliver proposals during the year. Then we have the opportunity to move forward and make the very extensive regulatory simplifications that we have agreed in the January agreement. It will therefore be delivered in the future. Lars Beckman asks for action, and we have taken action. We have made sure that the processing of cases takes a shorter time – among other things, the deadlines for building permits have been tightened – which makes the processes more efficient. We have reduced the requirements for noise outside new homes, and this means that more areas in urban areas are possible to build. We have surveyed state land and made sure that Akademiska Hus, for example, uses the land you sit on to build. There are plans for 28 000 new homes up to 2026, as an example. We have also tried to improve competition in the construction market by providing better information to foreign developers, so that they can also launch themselves on the Swedish market, thereby increasing competition and lowering the price picture. In addition, we have investment aid for rental apartments, which of course is an important component for all young people who do not want to go into debt heavily in an uncertain time in their lives because they might want flexibility. More rental apartments on the market offer a wider range, which makes price development lower compared to the owned stock. We also see that we now have stable price developments, which is also different from what it looked like during the time of the alliance government in power. Instead of housing prices rising by 10 to 15 per cent per year, which made the threshold on the housing market only higher and higher during the alliance government, development is now stable. With increased economic income, such as increased wages, this makes it easier to enter the housing market – sooner than more difficult, as it was during the time of the Alliance in the Government Office. This government has thus worked intensively and will continue to work intensively to create better conditions. However, it is important to remember that we have a shared responsibility. The government has a responsibility for parts of housing policy, but the municipalities also have a great deal of responsibility. They hold the land control and the plan monopoly. If Lars Beckman thinks that there are too little villas built in Gävle, I suggest that he bring it up with Gävle's municipal management; it is they who have the responsibility to plan and review how the land is used. If we have a large housing shortage, however, it is better to use the land as efficiently as possible, so that you get the greatest number of homes per square metre, but how to use the local land is, as I said, not a matter for the government to decide. Instead, it is a municipal issue, and everyone who has opinions has the opportunity to work in a municipal context to make their voice heard.
i-bb676b422f255d93-290	Mr President, I would like to I think many people heard that the Government spoke for a long time and a lot but that there were few things in the answer that showed that the Government has taken steps to allow more young people to own their housing. When you visit, for example, those who sell villas and ask what it is that makes them unable to match a customer to a villa, you will of course get the answer that it is partly due to a lack of plots. We have to be honest and say that. The municipalities have been far too calm, not least Gävle. But that said, it also depends a lot on the amortisation requirement. Even though you have two relatively well-paid persons in a household, you simply cannot borrow money if you have not owned anything before and thus have a large cash bet. Today it is very difficult for a couple in their 25s who are starting a family to buy a house. It is basically impossible if they do not have parents who go in and make money or help with the cash. Do we want such a society? Isn't it reasonable that the grandchildren of the 40's should have the same opportunity as the 40's? In the early 70s they had to build their villas, move in and start a family. With all due respect for the importance of shorter processing times: It is not the processing times that house manufacturers take up when visiting them. Instead, they talk strictly about the amortisation requirement as the one that has caused the possibility of buying a villa, and it is actually a national decision that no municipal politician anywhere in Sweden can influence. I hope that the government will come forward with proposals, and I am absolutely sure that we Moderates will accept a package of measures if they just put it forward. The focus must be on how more young people should have the opportunity to own their home. We think it is reasonable for people to have the opportunity to do so, and that is also the form of living in which people themselves want to live.
i-bb676b422f255d93-294	Mr President, I would like to I think that we should have a large housing and good choice for people entering the housing market today, tomorrow and in five years' time – and preferably in ten years' time and further into the future than that. Then, like Lars Beckman, you can't just pretend like there are no challenges when it comes to financial stability and pretend that we can just keep burning anyway. We have seen the effects of that. We have seen the effects in Sweden during the 1990s and in many countries around Europe during the financial crisis. I think that a responsible politician should want to take steps to avoid the resulting collapse in housing construction, for it would create great difficulties for young people entering the housing market in that situation – when the market is no longer functioning and delivering. I also think it is important to go back to the facts when we are discussing. Tossing out opinions can do anything, but the one who has the facts behind him is a little more credible. Every year, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority conducts a mortgage survey that looks at what the market looks like for mortgages. It shows that the proportion of young people in the survey has remained stable since 2016, but compared to 2012, it has actually doubled – from 10 to 20 percentage points. This shows that the increased amortisation requirements have not had the effect that Lars Beckman paints. On average, buying a dwelling has not become more difficult. On the other hand, people borrow less than they did before, and thus they buy a slightly cheaper dwelling. However, it is not the case that young people have been excluded, as Lars Beckman is trying to say. Lars Beckman's recipe has been tested in Denmark, for example. It introduced grace-free loans precisely with the argument that young people would enter the housing market. It did not have that effect, and then it is foolish to suggest that we do the same thing as in Denmark. However, I think we need to do more, and we will come up with proposals on more modern building regulations once that investigation has been delivered. We will pursue an active housing policy. We have agreed on this in the January agreement, and we will deliver it.
i-bb676b422f255d93-298	Mr President, I would like to Henrik Vinge has asked me if I and the government would like to propose changes to the rules on supply support so that municipalities are given legal support to deny subsidies to IS terrorists. Furthermore, Henrik Vinge has asked me whether, in the event that the government is not prepared to propose amendments, I can justify why returnees of IS terrorists should receive subsistence support. First of all, I want to make it clear that persons who have committed terrorist offences or other serious crimes such as war crimes should be prosecuted. Detecting and investigating these serious crimes, committed by people who have returned to Sweden, is primarily the responsibility of the Security Service and the Political Authority. I have full confidence in how our law enforcement authorities handle this responsibility. Social Services has another assignment. It has to apply the Social Services Act, i.e. to examine individual applications for assistance. Financial assistance is the ultimate safety net of society to ensure a decent level of living for the individual. However, the right to supply aid is not unconditional. It requires, for example, that the individual, according to his/her own ability, contributes to his/her livelihood and takes responsibility for his/her financial situation. Social services have to decide whether the conditions for assistance are met in each individual case. The government continues to follow the matter carefully.
i-bb676b422f255d93-302	Mr President, I would like to Government! In man's rather varied history, there have been groups, sects, and others who have committed terrible acts, ruthless crimes that ordinary people can hardly understand that other people are capable of. But they are. Perhaps the most famous example today was the German Nazis. But there have been several such groups, and the Islamic State is one of them. They have made themselves notorious to attack defenseless villages, separate the men and women, execute the men, capture the women as sex slaves, murder babies, and burn innocent people alive. Mr President, I would like to About 300 people have gone from Sweden down to Syria to fight for the Islamic State, and Mikael Skråmo was one of them. He is now deceased, but earlier he has written on Twitter:中 Swedish government paid my glock and cold-blooded. Glock, Mr President, is a gun that is often used by military personnel, and he referred to AK4 Kalashnikov, an automatic rifle that is also often used by military personnel. What did this terrorist mean by this? What did he mean by the Swedish government having paid for his gun and rifle? Well, he probably meant exactly what he said, and it was probably true. There is a report commissioned by Finansinspektionen and prepared by the Swedish Defence University. It states that it is quite common, or at least was quite common, that those who fought for the Islamic State could at the same time raise contributions from Sweden. There are a lot of different benefits: housing allowance, child allowance, maintenance allowance and parental allowance. When I hear this, I cannot help but ask the question, even though it is horrifying: how many innocent people have been shot with guns that have been paid with Swedish grant money? How many children have been blown to death or maimed by bombs that have been paid with Swedish grant money? Mr President, I would like to About two years ago, the Islamic State lost the war in Syria. Much as the Germans did after they lost World War II, namely, fled to Argentina, many of the Islamic State's murderers took refuge in Sweden. Although the Minister of Social Affairs says that those who have committed terrorist crimes should be punished for that, we all know that it does not work that way in Sweden. Sweden does not have the necessary legislation to deal with the situation. Of the approximately 300 who went to Syria to fight for the Islamic State, only a few have been convicted. There is no indication that there will be a large number of further convictions, but the vast majority will go free. Not only will they go free – the Minister of Social Affairs also forces all Swedish municipalities to give each of the terrorists their apartment, if they need it, and a small amount of support every month, the rest of their lives, if they cannot support themselves. In this way, Mr President, Sweden has become a refuge for some of the worst murderers who have ever walked on the face of the earth. Here they have settled, here they live on Swedish tax money and here they do not have to be brought to justice.
i-bb676b422f255d93-309	Mr President, I would like to When Henrik Vinge makes his first speech, I wonder whether he has forgotten how he formulated his question. It was, in fact, about supply aid, which is my responsibility as Minister of Social Affairs to deal with and also to answer about. If Henrik Vinge wanted to discuss the entire Swedish legal system, it would have been much more appropriate if he had asked the Minister of Justice, or Mikael Damberg, who was just standing in the speaker's chair and who shortly has a press conference to describe the meeting that is currently taking place with experts from many countries, who are going to deal with the terrible deeds that Henrik Vinge described, something I do not have to try in any way to exceed. The deed is absolutely terrible, and that is precisely why the guilty must be brought to justice. Doing so in Sweden is more complicated than doing it internationally, which is why the Swedish government and Sweden as a country – I have not heard any opposition so far – have pushed for an international tribunal to bring these terrorists and murderers to justice. I am not going to further describe or respond to the arguments about the judiciary, respecting the responsibilities that I have. I hope Henrik Vinge can understand that. I would like to say that the government that is sitting today – the Social Democrats and the Green Party, which work together with the Center Party and the Liberals – is based on an agreement not to allow extreme parties to rule or come to power. I emphasise this, because Henrik Vinge makes it sound in principle that there are those in this House or in the government who defend the behaviour of people who have left Sweden, who have defied the strongest recommendations of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and gone to warring parts of Syria and who have been prepared to stand side by side with others and fight for IS. There is no one defending any of this. It wouldn't do anything if we came back a little bit to the question, so I'll try to get into it, to describe the complexity of who does what in the Swedish system. It's the police who prosecute criminals, not social services. On the other hand, social services should of course inform the police and the Swedish Security Service if they feel that there is information that can be useful. I think it would be rather dangerous if we took the path of Henrik Vinge and the Swedish Democrats and, for that matter, many Moderates around the country are attracted by saying that if we refuse any support, we can be sure that they will not come to the municipality, even if they have never lived there, even if they never intend to return there. Then the question is, where are they going? Do we want those who fought for IS in Syria to come to Sweden and do what they can to be under the radar, without us knowing about them or their children? This is not what the Swedish Government wants. We want the Security Service to have good knowledge of these individuals. Of course, if it turns out that they have committed crimes, they should be prosecuted for them, but it is not social services that judge people. I wonder where Henrik Vinge draws the line. Who's not supposed to have social security? It sounds like Nazis aren't supposed to have welfare benefits either, when I hear Henrik Vinge's description, or murderers and paedophiles. All the people I mentioned should be prosecuted, punished and severely punished, but it is not social services that should judge.
i-bb676b422f255d93-317	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I can see that this interpellation was not primarily addressed to the Minister for Social Affairs, but it is the Government Office that has transferred it to the Minister for Social Affairs. From the beginning, it was addressed to a representative of the Ministry of Justice. It is possible that it would have been better if it had ended up there. But I can see that the Minister of Social Affairs' answer to my interpellation was precisely that these people should be judged and that it is primarily the police's job to deal with it, not the social services'. Therefore, I thought it was relevant to mention just now that the police do not have the tools necessary for these people to actually be judged. Thus, the argument of the Minister for Social Affairs falls in some way, and these people end up with social services. The Minister of Social Affairs is also talking about a tribunal. It is something that we have heard from the Social Democrats as some sort of excuse for not being able to judge them in Sweden, i.e. being able to send them to some international tribunal. It's just that no one knows when this tribunal will be in place. Moreover, the problem is, of course, the question of proof. We cannot easily investigate all the crimes that have taken place in Syria and bind these people to these crimes. That's exactly the problem. That is why there would have been a need for legislation that could actually have addressed the very fact that these people have gone to Syria. It is partly in place, but far too late. The Minister of Social Affairs also raises the question of whether Nazis should receive social assistance. I can say that if people who participated in the terrible actions of the Nazis in the 1930s for some reason began to come to Sweden, I would have asked the same question. I do not think that Sweden should be a haven for murderers, no matter what reasons they engage in such crimes. I think we should punish them, and I do not think that we should pay support to them or in other ways make it easier for them to live here. Something that I have thought of are all the people who have fled the Islamic State, innocent people who have often had their lives completely broken. For example, they may have gone to Sweden, live here and now be forced to run into the murderers of their own family members on the streets. When they go down to shop for food in the center, they may run into representatives of the Islamic State, people they know have tried to murder them and their families. These people may have got a job here in some cases – they may have started a business here – and will now pay taxes to support those who have tried to murder them and their families. What does the Minister of Social Affairs have to say to all the Christian people – Syrians, Assyrians, Syrians – who are in Sweden and who, of course, experience this as a tremendous violation?
i-bb676b422f255d93-323	Mr President, I would like to Henrik Vinge has asked whether the Minister and the Government would consider proposing changes to the rules on supply support, so that municipalities are given legal support to deny subsidies to IS terrorists. I have tried to answer that question in my interpellation response, and I will continue to try to explain how the Government and the Swedish Parliament have so far seen the Social Services Act. But it feels like Henrik Vinge brings in a lot of other perspectives. It is clear that we must ensure that we have the tools to ensure that people who commit crimes and carry out acts that are not acceptable, are not allowed and are criminals can be punished for that. That is also why the Minister of Justice has been working on legislation that will ban not only terrorist crimes but also dealing with terrorists. Now I think Henrik Vinge will know more than I do if he follows the question so closely as to what the situation is in that process, because the first proposal was not possible to implement. However, we are not going down on this point, because it is very important that those who commit criminal acts should be punished for it. This also applies to people who commit terrible crimes in Sweden. These people too will sooner or later come out on the streets. What happens when they need to face victims or others? Of course, we must ensure that we give protection to all those people who need it. That's why I'm so concerned about the approach that Henrik Vinge, the Swedish Democrats and quite a few Moderates around the country have when they say that you should deny someone you consider to be an IS terrorist – that is, someone who has gone to Syria and fought on the IS side – providing support. I think it is very problematic to talk about what these people would then do. I think it is better that the social services know about them if they have now made it back to Sweden. The Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs does not help anyone who has defied the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' strongest recommendations, gone to Syria and fought with IS. The Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs does not help any of them back. But if they come back to any municipality and if they have a Swedish citizenship then it is preferable that social services know about them. When people wonder where they've really gone, we'll keep an eye on it. The Secret Service should know where these people are. That is the case today, and so I want it to continue to be. We should not force these people to go underground and perhaps plan new acts of terror. How does Henrik Vinge view that? It was interesting when we returned to the issue of supply support. My view as Minister of Social Affairs remains, and as far as I know, there is no one in the Swedish Parliament who stands up today because only those who think the right things should have income support and that social services should act as some kind of judge. Then the question is: Should Swedish Nazis, as I would say, engage in violent extremism, have income support? Was it only those who fought in the 1930s who should be denied supply support? Or does Henrik Vinge also include these Swedish Nazis, murderers and paedophiles? Unfortunately, there are many who commit terrible acts that are prosecuted, who are punished, who are punished and who have to pay for their crimes. Hopefully, these crimes will not recur. But social services are not a court of law. Social Services has another assignment. And in this case I am extremely anxious that they do everything they can to also help the police and security police to keep track of those individuals who may have come to Sweden and who may pose a danger.
i-bb676b422f255d93-327	Mr President, I would like to I can answer the question about the people that Lena Hallengren describes as violent Nazis. They should not receive support for their livelihoods. They should be in jail. Killers should not receive support either. They should be in prison, too. Pedophiles should not receive support either. They should be in prison, too. Similarly, IS terrorists should not receive subsistence support, but should be in prison. That is precisely the problem, that of the 300 who travelled from Sweden down to Syria to fight for IS, only two have been convicted in Sweden. There are far too few. I regret that the Minister of Social Affairs does not want me to go into the issue of punishment and so on. But now the Minister of Social Affairs himself actually raised this issue. The people who have committed crimes should be punished and imprisoned, and they should not receive social assistance. But now we have a situation where hundreds of people who have committed some of the worst and most ruthless crimes in our time seek refuge in Sweden. Of course, their absence from punishment is something that they find positive. But, of course, the fact that they also get life support and a free apartment helps them get here. The Minister for Social Affairs says here that if we pay out money to these people, we can at the same time keep an eye on them. But I think it would be better if these people didn't come here at all. We should not make it pleasant for these people to get to Sweden. We must protect Swedish citizens from these people. Although we are paying support to these people, it is clear that they are still a major security risk. That's what the Secret Service says. It is not that we are somehow protecting ourselves from their violence simply because we are paying out money to them. If so, it would be much better if we made sure that they could not come back to Sweden at all. We have also proposed this, in other words simply withdrawing their citizenship. Ultimately, we must protect the Swedish people from further terrorist attacks. We've already had several, one with a fatal outcome. We must protect the people from further such terrorist attacks.
i-bb676b422f255d93-331	Mr President, I would like to I do not think anyone has talked about the fact that, as a returner from war areas in Syria, it would seem pleasant to come to Sweden. But I actually think that Henrik Vinge as a Member of Parliament would take some responsibility in the discussion and not stand and say that you get life support and free housing. I know this argument from the Swedish Democrats about everyone who comes to Sweden and only gets. It's not a fact. Everyone has a responsibility for their own livelihood and for seeking work. If you have also stayed abroad, I can inform Henrik Vinge that you must also show that you are able to take this responsibility with your own home, for example. You can't just travel abroad, ignore looking for work and think someone else is going to support you. It's not that simple. On the other hand, I stand by the fact that it is extremely important that we have a social service that is well-functioning today. Social services are the activities that have the opportunity to discover and see what is at risk of happening, what is moving in certain environments, to get early reports of concerns about children or young people and to actually inform the police and security police in a way that makes us know where these individuals are rather than vice versa, i.e. that they are Swedish citizens and have the opportunity to return to Sweden but that no one knows where they are. It feels like a much more unpleasant situation, I would say. I mean, society should comply with the laws. This means that IS terrorists should be punished in Sweden for what they have done, and we want to change and tighten this legislation. However, it is also about doing our utmost to achieve an international tribunal together with other countries, as Henrik Vinge says. Having the best possible starting point for evidence is probably having an international tribunal. It is important that we do not try to pick too many cheap and simple points, because there are no simple solutions to this very serious and difficult problem.
i-bb676b422f255d93-336	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I and the government intend to make proposals to secure family and emergency homes and how they look, how I and the government intend to deal with inappropriate placements of children, and to what extent I and the government are working to ensure that talks are conducted between municipalities to avoid children being placed in families that other municipalities considered inappropriate. I would like to start by thanking Alexandra Anstrell for this urgent issue. As I have mentioned before, the issue of children and young people in community care is a high priority for the government. A child who is placed voluntarily or under coercion in the community's care should always be better, an elderlyly worse. That is precisely why the government recently decided on a package of measures for safe HVB, homes for care and housing, and special youth homes. IVO's mission to carry out an analysis of local authorities' investigations into child and youth matters includes all types of investigations, including emergency and family homes. In addition, during the previous term of office, the Government clarified the responsibility of the National Board of Health and Welfare for supporting and developing family home care. The National Board of Health and Welfare works at national level to support municipalities and strengthen the protection and care of children and young people located in family homes and HVB. I would like to point out that the Council has made several major efforts to strengthen social care for children and young people in different ways, both via a broad mandate to the National Board of Health and Welfare on strengthening competence, stability and quality development in 2018– 2019. Within the framework of this mission, family home care, among other things, will be the subject of several actions. For example, the National Board of Health and Welfare will further develop and conduct a national user survey with children in family homes, which can provide input for operational development and follow-up for other authorities working with health care. I believe that it is important to follow the broad mandate of the National Board of Health and Welfare in the field of social care for children and young people and the analysis of IVO, and I await this final report before I may take further action in this area.
i-bb676b422f255d93-342	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. To your audience, I would like to say that this is about how we can secure children placed in family and on-call homes. Again, there are cases where children in social services placed in family and on-call homes have been ill-treated. The Caliber programme recently recognised P4 Sörmlands and P4 Östergötland's review of a family home that was deemed inappropriate. Among other things, it was about condemned family members. Nevertheless, several municipalities' social services placed children there, and between municipalities there was no dialogue. In another case, a child was placed in an emergency home because the child has suffered physically and mentally in his biological family. I won't go into the details, but I think both you and I would have sought emergency help much earlier for less. Not long later, a new report of concern came from the school to social services. That couldn't be possible, could it? Yes, it was. The child was beaten in the emergency home. Urgently, the child was moved, but the family is still there. What says that not another municipality quite soon places a child in that family, where already a child is hurt? There is therefore no dialogue between Sweden's municipalities. There is no national register where these things can be entered. Mr President, I would like to In another part of Sweden there is another child who also suffers so badly in his biological family that the social services have to move the child to an emergency home. This child ends up in an emergency home where there is warmth, love, responsibility and rules. The child flourishes and learns what the world can look like without violence, threats, abuse and fear. There are adults who show the way, support, encourage and teach. How do we get more such families? How do we know why they're so good? How do we know who they are? There is no dialogue between Sweden's municipalities here either, and there is no national register where such information can be entered. We measure and weigh our children at the BVC when they are young. At school we follow up their knowledge through grades and knowledge checks, and student health keeps track of their well-being. But when it comes to placed children who, for various reasons, cannot live with their biological family, we let go. Madam Minister! The measures that the Government is talking about seem to be mostly additional charges on Sweden's municipalities but do not lead to any improvements for the individual children. How does the government believe that the proposed measures should secure family homes and on-call homes for children? Do you have any concrete proposals there? Of course, municipalities have to take responsibility when children get hurt. One solution is a temporary placement in an emergency home or in the longer term in a family home. But the responsibility of society does not end there. Mr President, I would like to If the family home the child is placed in is not good, the municipality can finish the assignment, but the problem is that other children can be placed there. The Government concludes its speech by saying that she does not intend to act until a lot of investigations are in place. In the meantime, there are probably still children who are placed in inappropriate families. What does the Minister want to say to them?
i-bb676b422f255d93-354	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member. Alexandra Anstrell brings up some individual cases that I lack knowledge of. Of course, I can only think that it is appalling. Children are cared for because the family and the environment are not favorable or may be directly harmful to the child's development. All placements aim to make it better for the children, not worse. This is also the reason why, just a few months ago, I presented a large package of measures aimed at making an assessment of all the SIS homes and HVB homes. It is Statskontoret that conducts the review of the State Department Board. IVO examines all the investigations carried out by the municipalities, and not least the follow-ups in cases where there has been a risk situation. If there has been any reason to point out in the past, specific follow-up should therefore be carried out. Alexandra Anstrell either misunderstood me or misinterpreted me. I didn't say I didn't intend to do anything. What I said was that it would be remarkable not to wait for Statskontoret's review of all HVB homes and IVO's review of several thousand investigations that the municipalities have done before I take action. The children who are in HVB homes or in family or on-call homes are not primarily dependent on my taking other measures but on the municipality responsible for their placement taking this very seriously. During its investigation of a child and the future location of a child, a municipality may need to request references to a family or emergency home. If, over the past five years, municipalities have had children or young people placed in the home in question, references may be requested from other municipalities with the consent of the intended family home or on-call home parents. If they can't imagine giving out a single reference, I would personally think that maybe you should pull your ears for yourself. It is also the case that there are requirements in both law and regulation – regulations that social services must relate to. You have a responsibility to follow up. An emergency home is for a short period of time, but it should also be followed up. Children have the right not only to influence but also to be listened to in matters that affect them. This applies not least to children who are placed in community care. I would really like to emphasise that it is not the case that a municipality is self-violently placing a child without any control of quality or follow-up, but that is precisely what is regulated by law. There's an obligation to conduct an investigation. It also has an obligation to monitor the child's position every six months. If you feel in doubt about a location, you must of course take references as a municipality, and I assume that the municipalities do.
i-NuV4BjYZLJPamDx7hgQ1tW	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. The problem is, it doesn't work. There are children who get hurt and fall between the chairs. I think the package of measures presented by the Government to secure HVB is a good one. The problem here is that it is not about what we are talking about. Placed children are very vulnerable in their situation – even more vulnerable than children who get ill at home with biological parents. They're already in trouble once. We need to follow up the social policy work more closely so that things do not go as they are now, that is to say that the situation always comes afterwards. Then it may be too late. Sometimes children in family homes fall between the chairs and have less health and receive less education than other children. Family home parents can be the only adults the child has in his or her vicinity, and if he or she is exposed by them, it can be difficult to tell. The child is aware of his/her current situation but does not know what can be expected at a new location; it can be something even worse and even harder. Mr President, I would like to One of the Government's proposed measures is a user survey with children in family homes. I'm getting a little perplexed. How does the Government believe that it can be ensured that these user surveys express precisely the child's opinion and not an opinion expressed by the child in fear of falling into something even worse? And what about the two-year-old who can neither read nor write himself? In a 2006 research report, SNS proposed stronger legislation to improve for children in family homes. According to the authors, the responsibility of social services is too weakly regulated in a framework legislation with few minimum standards, which has led to large variations between municipalities. This is where the problem lies. SKL has also worked on the issue and developed success factors for good family home care. Unfortunately, progress is too slow. The question remains. Many investigations are being carried out, but how does the Government think that Sweden will overcome inappropriate placements of children? After all, the Government concluded its response to the interpellation with the possibility of doing something.
i-bb676b422f255d93-371	Mr President, I would like to In order to avoid any misunderstandings, I would like to emphasise one thing. The investigations by Statskontoret and IVO – and it is IVO that is relevant from a family home and on-call home perspective – are about reviewing all the investigations and placements that municipalities have made. This includes family homes and emergency homes, so I don't think it's true that it's about anything else. This is exactly what it is. How has the municipality worked? What basis has been taken in? How has it been ensured that this is the best location for this specific and individual child? Every child should be listened to, and the needs of each child should be taken into account. This is exactly what IVO is about to do. I'm very much looking forward to that accounting. I hope that Alexandra Anstrell will do the same and that we will have a further discussion thereafter. It will be very crucial, at least for me as Minister of Social Affairs, if it turns out that the municipalities do not take references, that they place children too lightly and that they do not put the best interests of the child first. I find it very hard to believe that they don't. On the other hand, it is quite right that not all investments will be successful. Sometimes a child doesn't fit in the living room. Sometimes there are family homes that are not at all what they claimed to be. Then it is important that we have IVO as the supervisory authority and that we comply with the requirements, rules and regulations that cover the business itself. This – to make sure that these investments are really fenced around so that, if they have to, they are done in the very best way – is what the Riksdag and the government have the opportunity to do. Alexandra Anstrell also wondered how to listen to the children. That's exactly how it's supposed to be-- it's going to be different depending on whether it's a 2-year-old or a 15-year-old. I see in my view that this is about the dialogue that each placed child has with a social security secretary on a regular basis. It's very important to build trust and trust. It can only be done by the individual social security secretary with the individual child by taking the child very seriously. It is of course also about the child's age and maturity, which is always when children's perspectives are to be taken into account. I would like to emphasise once again that I do not stand here in any way and say that Swedish child and youth care always works perfectly. However, I would like to say that Sweden is a good country for children to grow up in. However, there are children who feel bad and who do not develop optimally in their original environment. This may be due to association, parents, family situation, addiction, and so on. Of course, getting the opportunity to get a better start in life in another home is crucial. Then it should be better than the situation that you are forced to leave. I would like to conclude by saying that the investigation that IVO is now going to do is very comprehensive but will give us a lot of knowledge. How do municipalities work to ensure that the investments made are good? How do you work with your investigations? I'm guessing there might be a difference across the country. It is possible that it may differ in other ways. I look forward to getting more knowledge of this and do not hesitate to take action if necessary.
i-2Yfp6ZJcv892hBkMW9jCi6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I think that IVO's investigation, as the Government told us about, is good in the long term. However, we already know that there are many cases where the placements in family and on-call homes have gone wrong. This is happening here and now. But there are also amazing families who support and live with the new or temporary family member. The problem is that we do not follow up which families work well and who do not. We do not follow up on what success factors there are. We also do not know which families, across municipal boundaries, have these tasks, and their quality is not followed up more than by individual administrators. The Government considered how important it is to build trust and trust. I really agree; it's very important. However, it is problematic in Sweden today, where very many municipalities have a fairly high turnover of social security secretaries. It's hard to build trust when you're not in place. Should it not be possible to systematically evaluate emergency and family homes according to national quality guidelines and have a national monitoring register to reduce the risk of inappropriate placements of children? How does the Minister feel about that? I think, like the Government, that this is a priority issue. The difference is that I think the government should act now.
i-bb676b422f255d93-385	Mr President, I would like to An important part is that social services have the resources to work both with prevention and with making investments. You shouldn't wait too long, but you shouldn't make decisions too early. It is based on an incredibly important and in-depth competence of the social services staff – of the social security secretary who will do the placement. It is, again, important to request references during the investigation. Of course, it is not the case that you can just call an on-call or family home, ask if there is room and place the child there. A thorough investigation is required; that is why they are done. I assume that the municipalities have dialogues among themselves when it comes to placing in other municipalities. You not only place a child in a municipality, but also contact that municipality. The IVO study reviews all the investigations and placements that the social services have carried out over the past year. When it comes, I think we'll get a lot more knowledge of what it looks like. In anticipation of this, social services will of course continue to work on the basis of existing requirements, guidelines and regulations. It is not freely chosen work. Care should be taken to ensure that the investigations and placements made are well-founded, so that the children placed will never get worse without better.
i-bb676b422f255d93-389	Mr President, I would like to Karin Rågsjö has asked me how I intend to work to get a national competence centre in the area whose task is to ensure that knowledge levels are high within the regions in order to be able to meet the patient group with ME. Karin Rågsjö has also asked me how I intend to work to increase the skills of all regions so that the patient group can receive adequate help and support in their home region. In addition, I have been asked how I intend to work towards the development and strengthening of research in this area and how I intend to work towards supporting and helping the family members. I would like to begin by saying that health and illness should have the right conditions and the right knowledge to meet patients with suspected or confirmed ME/ CFS. This also applies to the possibility of providing the right support to relatives. In 2018, the Government therefore commissioned the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare to review the state of knowledge and assess the prerequisites for supporting healthcare with knowledge support and support for sick leave for ME/ CFS, a so-called insurance medical decision support. The review from the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, published during the spring, shows that there is a need for more research and a greater consensus on the disease ME/ CFS before there are conditions for developing knowledge support in this area. The same applies to the development of centres of excellence in the field. The Government is now analysing the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's documentation. In parallel, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has conducted a dialogue with the county councils in order to increase the consensus in the area in the long term. I would like to end by mentioning that the government is making several efforts to improve the care of people with long-term illness. We support, among other things, the transition to good and close care and the introduction of patient contracts that will serve as a coherent care plan for patients with extensive and complex care needs.
i-bb676b422f255d93-394	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer from the Government. It is gratifying to hear that there is some work going on, efforts, at the National Board of Health and Welfare to develop a knowledge base, knowledge support. But when you read the answer, it is difficult to see when ME patients get the insurance medicine basis, when the care receives knowledge support in the regions and when it becomes a centre of excellence. I participated in the manifestation in Sergel's Square in May for ME sufferers under the name Millions Missing, which is significant for this whole disease, because it is millions of ME patients worldwide who disappear from life, one might say. In Sergel's square hundreds of shoes with small labels were on, written by patients or their relatives, saying what they miss in life: spending time with children, with husbands, dancing, having the energy to shower, having the energy to drink coffee, being able to walk 30 meters, being able to work. ME is a disease that strikes hard, destroying people's lives. Men as well as women and children can have ME. The disease affects people of all ages, but especially women. 25% of patients are tied to their homes or fully bedridden. ME is internationally classified as a neurological disease where the body's immunological, endocrine and neurological systems have been affected. It can be thought of as a constant flu with symptoms of joint pain, dizziness, difficulty concentrating, sound, light, palpitations, jumping body temperature, and so on. Sometimes patients are prescribed, due to ignorance, training by their caregivers. As a result, symptoms get worse, often in the form of just a flu feeling, a kind of relapse. Then it may take a very long time to come up again and drink coffee. It can take away all the energy of the day. If you are to meet friends, Mr President, you have to plan it very carefully. You have to pump up energy and then lie down for about 24 hours to manage the day. Life has changed so badly for so many people. ME patients are taught to live on a huge sparring flame; they are not on the go anymore. It is painfully psychological to change one's life and personality and painfully physically to have so many serious diseases. There is a need for more knowledge about the disease in the regions – it is extremely cheap to do so – and at Försäkringskassan, which on numerous occasions does not prescribe ME sufferers. This is not a matter for the government, but it is indefensible. It is clear from the answer that the National Knowledge Centre is a long way off and also knowledge of ME in the regions. My question to the Minister is answered, but it still feels a little uncertain. When can a national competence centre be in place, and when can the regions have a little more control of this disease, the diagnosis, which affects so many and knocks them out of life?
i-bb676b422f255d93-403	Mr President, I would like to I really appreciate Karin Rågsjö's commitment. It is very important that this large group be seen and listened to and that they feel that their situation really does not go by us, because it does not. I also paid attention to the manifestation on 12 May but was not able to be in place, so much thank you, indeed, for highlighting the situation of ME-sickness! These are serious consequences of the disease. Karin Rågsjö described them very clearly. However, as I mentioned in the interpellation response, the National Board of Health and Welfare has conducted a dialogue with the regions in order to create a broader knowledge and a more equal approach. It is clear that it is a disadvantage that there is no consensus at international level as to what the diagnostic criteria should be. I would say that it is the common understanding of diagnostic criteria that is crucial for any centres of competence. It is important not to go ahead with research, which does not entirely agree on how to view the disease and in this case the diagnostic criteria. But this is an important part. At Karin Rågsjö's renewed question about when the centres of knowledge could be relevant, I have no other answer now than what I read out in my interpellation response. But I do understand that the affected group is waiting for the situation to change and for the state of knowledge to change. Politically, we are dependent on a change in the state of knowledge. What we can do, however, is, of course, to ensure that care is developed in a way that ensures that people with complex care needs are seen and not sidelined and that care has the necessary resources and skills. This is something that we are working on widely and which I very much hope will not least benefit the ME Group.
i-bb676b422f255d93-406	Mr President, I would like to The government is approaching the issue a little vaguely, I think. There is currently research in the field in Uppsala with links out to Stanford and Harvard, so it has come a bit along the way and is happening a lot internationally on the issue. I am rather concerned that the 19 regions are not moving along. Today, there is some kind of centre for ME disease in two regions, and it has to be said that it is quite shrewd. In other regions, there is a great risk of ME sufferers running around looking for care in health centres and other places time and time again without anyone listening and understanding what has happened. It is also important for ME sufferers to know how far they can go with their own bodies, because this is a disease that sometimes can't be controlled. You can sometimes exert yourself so much that you lower the level of how much the body can tolerate, and then you suffer even more from the symptoms of the disease. Then it may take several weeks before you are rehabilitated, and sometimes you stop at the low level, simply. This is a disease that is seen as extremely debilitating throughout the world. It is one of the diseases that is very debilitating, and it can also be traced in what patients express in their stories. It would nevertheless be good to find a way forward so that the 19 regions that do not have this knowledge can go a little more along with the two regions that have it. Otherwise, there will be a very unequal treatment, and that is something we should try to limit. Research is, as I said, super important. When diagnosing ME, you use disfellowshipping diagnosis, i.e. you try different diagnoses and write them off until you arrive at the disease diagnosis ME. However, these are very clear diagnostic criteria, and that is why it is tragic that knowledge is so different in the country. It is important that the regions come up on track but also that the Social Insurance Agency finds a way to go. This is not the government's question, but there are a lot of people with ME who have not received sickness benefit due to the fact that this disease cannot be classified. Being on sick leave is insanely difficult. Then you may also become poor, and that is certainly not a success story for a person who is ill. I would like to hear a little with the Minister, Mr President, how we can work towards developing and strengthening research in this area. We would really need that.
i-bb676b422f255d93-413	Mr President, I would like to Let me just say, before I forget, that it is truly regrettable that we continue to have 21 regions and not 6. It would have made it easier, and it is indeed regrettable that not enough parties stood up for it. Now Karin Rågsjö and I belong to parties that would have liked to see a number of larger regions, so we can unite in that desire. That would certainly have made it easier, and this is a perfect example of it. I am not saying that the other 19 regions will not build up the corresponding clinics, but it is clear that it gives a little bit later in the time. Today it is mainly Linköping and a reception in Stora Sköndal that you can turn to regardless of where you live, with respect that it requires travel and other things. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare, for example, good treatment is central for patients with ME/ CFS, as well as the responsiveness of care and the whole patient's disease picture and needs. With this, I would like to stress how important it is that care always sees the whole individual, that it looks at the symptoms that exist and is able to meet also people with difficult and complicated disease pictures. SBU reports that there are many gaps in knowledge where research is lacking. Many of these are due to the fact that it is not clear what causes ME/ CFS. SBU also points to the importance of careful diagnostics, which may require multi-disciplinary specialist expertise to rule out other conditions that can be treated. But, and I would like to stress this point, SBU also notes that the lack of scientific support for a treatment does not mean that the treatment is ineffective. It may be that the scientific support is not in place but that the treatment can still have an effect. It's important to remember both of those things. Karin Rågsjö was then on the subject of research. It is clear – not least in our discussion here – that we need to know more to get the necessary support. At the same time as research should be free, the ALF agreement is what currently regulates what resources are allocated to research in healthcare, and it is about 1.8 billion to clinical research every year. Landsting and the state also fund clinical therapy research of SEK 200 million per year. Forte and the Swedish Research Council also announce funding for healthcare research of SEK 180 million per year, at least until 2023. That is why, of course, it is important that those who have come a bit in this research really seek funds and continue to ensure not only that we have a political basis, but also, of course, that everyone who is affected feels that it is moving, that we are taking steps forward. The Landstingen is still responsible for the design of health care. It is the county councils, or now it is called regions, that are responsible for how many clinics and so on, regardless of what diagnoses we are talking about. I finish where I started: It would not have been so bad with 6 large regions. Now we have 21 smaller regions. It is also telling that it is in Linköping and in Stora Sköndal that these clinics have been achieved. Pending a clearer consensus on the diagnostic criteria, they will continue to be important clinics for those affected.
i-bb676b422f255d93-419	Mr President, I would like to As the Government said, I would have been much happier today if there had been 6 regions and not 21. This makes equal health in Sweden difficult not only for ME but also for all other diseases you can suffer. It would have been much better with 6. One issue that is very early, important, for this group is that the relatives usually have to take a lot of responsibility. I usually call them family torpedoes, i.e. people who get to go in and work extra with their parents, their partner, their siblings and so on when these suffer from this disease. I would like these relatives around the 21 regions to receive a little more support from healthcare in different ways. They'd have to. They risk being torn out pretty bad if they do not get help, specifically if they have lost their money when the Social Insurance Agency has closed the door. Then it will be especially difficult financially in such families. Generally speaking, it is difficult to support relatives in a good and sensible way. The care hasn't really grasped that. I would like the 19 regions where skills are largely lacking to receive a little more support from the 2 regions that have a little more power on this issue. It wouldn't be that bad. One of my questions was just how we should work for the relatives to get more support and help. It is perhaps a general issue in health care, not only with regard to ME, but also with regard to other diagnoses.
i-bb676b422f255d93-423	Mr President, I would like to It is just as Karin Rågsjö says: There is a need for more coordination in healthcare. It is about coordination between the professions and to interact with the patients themselves, who know a great deal about their condition. It is also a question of working together with the relatives and providing support for relatives who support them. It is tough to be a relative, and much of the discussion we have had here can probably be applied quite generally to health care or people with great care needs. You need many people's efforts – partly that you can do it yourself, partly that you have relatives who continue to be at your side and partly that the professions can work together and collaborate. I would like to conclude by repeating what I said in my interpellation response: The review of the state of knowledge carried out by the National Board of Health and Welfare and SBU, the Swedish National Agency for Medical and Social Assessment, showed that there is a need for more research and a greater consensus on the disease ME/ CFS before there are opportunities to develop knowledge support in this area. The same applies to the development of a competence centre in the field. On the other hand, there are resources allocated both within the framework of the ALF agreement and within various research councils to continue important research work in order for large groups, not least women, to have a better life situation.
i-bb676b422f255d93-426	Mr President, I would like to Noria Manouchi has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take so that the money that is available to enable first teachers in exclusion areas to earn SEK 10 000 more a month can be paid out. The government shares Noria Manuchi's view that the most experienced teachers should be at the schools where the needs are greatest. In the J Anuari Agreement, the government has therefore agreed with the Cent erpartiet and the Liberals that there will be more career positions in exclusion areas. There is no conflict with the Moderates. As Noria Manouchi points out, the funds that the Riksdag, on a proposal from the Moderates and Christian Democrats, decided to set aside for this purpose cannot currently be paid out. This is because the Parliament's decision lacked an authorisation for the Government to decide on grants that involve expenditure in later financial years than the budget, a so-called "order authorisation". Since the Swedish National Agency for Education decides on the grant framework for the principals on a academic year basis, the lack of an authorisation to order means that the Swedish National Agency for Education cannot decide on a framework that extends over the turn of the year 2019/ 2020. This was one of the consequences of the fact that the Riksdag, with a majority of the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, voted through a state budget, on a proposal in a parliamentary motion, which does not nearly contain the degree of precision resulting from the ordinary budgetary process. However, the Government has taken the initiative to remedy the situation by proposing in the proposal the Spring Change Budget for 2019 such an order authorisation as is needed. Once the Riksdag has decided on the spring change budget, the Government may decide on the necessary amendments to the regulations governing the remuneration of directors who establish career steps for teachers.
i-bb676b422f255d93-429	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. The segregation in Sweden is a major problem. That is why it is particularly worrying about the great differences in knowledge between our schools. There are differences there, even though we know that upper secondary school qualifications are the absolute best way to avoid exclusion, addiction and crime. Today, there are more areas than ever before where barely half of the pupils pass comprehensive school. When it looks like this, I think that you as a school politician need to ask yourself what you can do. What steps can be taken to give students a chance? And what efforts are needed to improve the results of knowledge in our vulnerable areas? Mr President, I would like to Research is clear that what is required is for each student to have enough time with a skilled and qualified teacher. But that is not the case today. Schools with the greatest challenges also have the greatest problems in recruiting the best teachers. Often it is the teachers with the shortest professional experience who work in the outside schools, while the most skilled teachers are in schools with high results and fewer social problems. This was the reason for the 2014 Alliance's reform of primary teachers in exclusion areas. This reform means more first teachers where they are most needed and ensures incentives and, in particular, motivation for the best teachers to go to the schools most in need. We now know that the reform makes a difference. A study from Karlstad University shows that 65 percent of schools who have taken part in the state grant believe that it has had a positive impact on the students' results. In the study, principals and teachers say that it is primarily about first teachers developing teaching based on research and proven experience and that they also create structures for better collegial collaboration. The National Agency for Education has also visited the schools and shares the positive view. The Swedish National Audit Office's evaluation shows that both principals and teachers at the schools are very satisfied. In 2014, the reform was introduced. Today, we know that it makes a tangible contribution to better integration. That is why, Mr President, we chose, in the moderate and Christian-democratic budget for 2019, to allocate an additional EUR 26 million to more primary teachers in out-of-town schools. However, the money was not paid out. The Swedish National Agency for Education believes that the government needs to change the regulation in order for the money to be available to the schools. However, no such initiatives have been taken by the government or the Minister. Instead, Anna Ekström chooses to attack the Moderates' budget, that is, a budget that has won the majority in this House. It doesn't really feel like a reasonable course of action. The Minister for Education has the opportunity to make the necessary changes but chooses not to do so. Why?
i-bb676b422f255d93-437	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I am a little impressed that Mrs Manouchi can make such an eloquent plea for state aid that is already in place. There are today two state grants that regulate opportunities for teachers to receive various forms of wage supplements with a state contribution – on the one hand, the alliance reform that was introduced and which the honourable Member has explained, and on the other hand, the teacher's salary boost that was introduced and developed during the past term of office. That door is wide open. We have expressed broad support in the Riksdag, and we have developed various variants to ensure that it will be possible for the heads to provide an additional salary supplement for those teachers who make extra contributions as first teachers or within the framework of the teacher's salary lift. There is no dispute about that path. What is at issue here is what Noria Manouchi is asking about as to why the government has not ensured that this money has been paid out. I have replied that it is because the budget that was drawn up was not drawn up with the care that normally characterises a budgetary process. It was not possible for the government to give the Swedish National Agency for Education the authority needed for the Swedish National Agency for Education to be able to pay out money. Now the government has returned to Parliament with the spring change budget and asked for an opportunity for the government to issue such provisions. I hope that the Government's spring change budget will go through in Parliament so that it will be possible to ensure that this money can be paid out. I would like to agree with Mrs Manouchi that this is an area where efforts are needed, but I hope that Mrs Manouchi also agrees with me that it has become quite difficult for the principals with several different ways of financing different forms of first teacher or career positions. I therefore hope that Noria Manouchi and the Moderates will support the proposals that the government will come back with, and which are supported in the January agreement, concerning the establishment of a professional programme for teachers. I have great hopes that we will get a little more order and order in all the support systems that exist so that we can ensure that teachers can work at the schools where they do the most good. I would like to end by giving Noria Manouchi quite right in one of the things she said. Noria Manouchi pointed out how important it is that there are well-trained, experienced and skilled teachers in all our schools and that it is a problem that we in Sweden have come to have an almost reversed career for teachers where you as a newly executed and inexperienced teacher start at a school with great challenges and then go on to make careers and end up in schools with less challenges. I'd love to turn the steak around. I think it would be good if we had a system where the most experienced teachers taught where they were most needed. I believe that there is no difference between us there, and I hope that we will be able to bring about the reforms that we, across the various bloc or party boundaries in Parliament, are so united if necessary.
i-bb676b422f255d93-441	Mr President, I would like to I wrote this interpellation mainly because I want to discuss and perhaps also deal with some of the school problems linked to segregation. It seems, however, that the Minister would rather deal with budgetary technicalities – and then we can do so. Today there is an authorisation of just over SEK 1 billion under budget area 16. If the government wanted to, it would have been able to re-prioritise within the amount available. If the government does not want to do so, there are more possibilities. For example, the Government could have returned to the Riksdag with a change decision concerning the purpose of the grant. That is exactly what was done when it came to the Equality Agency. But in this respect, the government believes that one can wait. We can wait until the spring change budget. I believe that we cannot wait when it comes to those students who are in absolute need of support. Apology, then, is what we are hearing in this House. It doesn't really help the kids. We know that the first teacher reform makes absolutely the greatest difference for those students who have the most difficult socio-economic conditions. I hope that the new Social Democracy has not forgotten those children. Because they are not very few. In Stockholm we have the Rinkeby School, and in Gothenburg we have the Sjumila School. These are two examples of many in the two largest cities. In Malmö, from which I come, social democracy has almost beaten the school for decades. There we have Sofielundsskolan, Munkhätteskolan, Rörsjöskolan, Johannesskolan and Värner Rydénskolan. In those schools, barely half of the students are able to reach upper secondary school qualifications. They are in dire need of the Moderates' initiative on primary teachers. I want the Minister of Education to give every child, not just some, an honest chance. I want the Minister of Education to give the children a chance to fulfill their dreams, whether it is to become a brain surgeon, a carpenter or if the dream is so simple that you simply want to complete elementary school. I do not think that the Minister and the Social Democrats should deny children that chance. I believe that if the Minister had wanted, the Minister, together with the Government, would be able to make sure that that money comes to the students and schools.
i-bb676b422f255d93-448	Mr President, I would like to I can only conclude that Noria Manouchi agrees with me that the way in which the parliamentary decision was drawn up meant that the money could not be paid out without Parliament changing the decision. Now the Member of Parliament believes that the government should have returned to Parliament and dealt with the matter in a different way. Let me remind you once again that there is a certain difference. We already have a large number of opportunities in place for first teachers to have wage increases. And we already have a large number of opportunities in place for principals, i.e. municipalities and independent schools, to ensure that the teachers present in their schools can receive a wage supplement. In addition, the terms and conditions of the various arrangements are written in such a way as to encourage in particular the creation of first teacher positions or career positions in schools in so-called exclusion areas. For my part, I see a rather big difference in that situation compared to when an authority is facing total closure. At this point, the issue is digital. On the issue raised by Mrs Manouchi, she would have liked us to have made extraordinary efforts through the parliamentary budget process to save a mistake in the Moderates' and Christian Democrats' budget. I'm proud of Swedish school. I am proud of the many teachers who work in Swedish schools. I am proud of the efforts that have been made to strengthen the results of knowledge. And I'm very happy that the results of the knowledge have gone up in recent years. I'm absolutely not happy. I will continue to make proposals to ensure that Sweden's students receive the best possible support. And the best support you can get is the teaching of an experienced and well-trained teacher. I will do so through, among other things, efforts to ensure that we receive first teachers and career teachers' services in our out-of-town schools. However, I find it very difficult to see how the argument goes together when Noria Manouchi somehow seems to make it that the 26 million is precisely what is missing when it comes to Sweden's students reaching the goals or that Sweden's students should be denied the goals. We have a great deal of work to do to increase the results of knowledge and strengthen equivalence in Swedish schools. I will work hard for us to use all the tools available. It is state grants of various kinds, targeted state grants to the principals and municipalities that need the most, continued efforts on first teacher and career services, special efforts to those schools where a lot of students need language support, New arrivals initiative and Collaboration for best school. There's a lot to do. A very big effort awaits everyone who cares about Swedish school. I will also continue to work on various forms of career services. As far as that particular effort is concerned, I will do so at the rate permitted by Parliament.
i-bb676b422f255d93-456	Mr President, I would like to Now it is not quite the way the Minister expresses that it is the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats that are in any way in need of salvation. It's these students who are. It is students who go to schools that usually have almost a majority of unauthorized teachers. It is students who attend schools where leadership does not work and where the need for skilled, experienced teachers is greater than anything else. These are the students in need of salvation. I simply expect more. I would say that those students demand more from the Social Democrats and Anna Ekström. I think that the students who have this need would absolutely need the effort that the Moderates and Christian Democrats have made in their budget. It is a budget that has won the majority in this House, a budget that the Social Democrats in the government position refuse to implement. Mr President, I would like to It is directly sad that the Minister believes that it is perfectly possible to come back to Parliament under the regulations and make sure to change so that you can invest in a gender equality authority but that it is impossible when it comes to investing in first teacher services for those students who are in absolutely the most need of support.
i-bb676b422f255d93-459	Mr President, I would like to For the third time, I would like to remind you that there are systems for first teacher and career positions in the Swedish school. These systems have been put in place by the Alliance Government and by the Social Democratic-led Government. It is an expression of a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament that it is important to have wage initiatives that ensure that it is attractive for the most experienced teachers to work in schools where the needs are greatest. In her eagerness to impose some kind of evil will on the government in this matter, Noria Manouchi ignores the great efforts already made. In fact, however, she also ignores the fact that the government must return to Parliament in order to comply with the regulations and ask for so-called "order authority". So has the government. I can assure Noria Manouchi that the government will continue to work to ensure good systems for the most experienced teachers to be in schools where the needs are greatest. Mrs Manouchi mentioned a number of schools in her speech. One of the schools, Sofielundsskolan, has become a little known in Sweden by having a first teacher in handicraft who has made great efforts to ensure that many newly arrived students get a good start in the Swedish school. It is one of many examples of the fine efforts already being made by many hardworking, experienced and skilled teachers in the schools where Noria Manouchi says that students require other teachers. I trust Sweden's teachers. And I hope that the teachers who do such a fine job in our outside schools – if that expression is to be used – will receive the support of the Swedish Parliament that they deserve.
i-bb676b422f255d93-464	Mr President, I would like to Mr Jomshof has asked me whether I would like to promote a ban on wearing a veil in Swedish pre- and primary schools. The education in both preschool and comprehensive school must convey and anchor respect for human rights and the fundamental democratic values on which Swedish society rests. Everyone working in school should promote respect for the inviolability of human life, the freedom and integrity of the individual, the equal value of all people, equality between women and men, girls and boys, and solidarity between people. I am appalled when I am reached by media information that preschool staff are willing to control and force children to wear a veil. This is totally unacceptable. B rn and students should not be forced to wear a veil against their own will in preschool or school. Children and students should be given the opportunity to shape their own beliefs about religion or other beliefs. It is also important for the Member States to be able to take part in the European Union's activities in the field of education and training. Discrimination on the grounds of religion is prohibited under the Discrimination Act in the field of school, among other things. The revised education for preschool, which will enter into force on 1 July 2019, underlines the importance of respect for the child's right to physical and personal integrity. Controlling and/ or limiting children's and pupils' choice of clothing may in some cases be an expression of honour-related violence and oppression and should not occur in preschool or school. Honour-related violence and oppression and its various forms of expression that violate the freedom of the individual are serious societal problems. The staff of the school and preschool are obliged to report suspicion that children are harmed to the social welfare board. In the January agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, it says that the work against honour-related violence and oppression will increase in school. The National Board of Education provides support for how the school should relate to comprehensive veils. According to Skolverket's guidance, the school's starting point should be to show respect for individual students' choice of dress, especially in the case of religious expressions. Furthermore, the authority points out that it is not possible to have general bans in school on comprehensive veils on the basis of religious freedom. The school, on the other hand, may prohibit clothing that significantly complicates the contact and interaction between teachers and pupils or pose particular risks in, for example, laboratory or similar exercises. The Council decided in March 2018 to instruct a special investigator to analyse, among other things, what can be considered to follow from the E Ulopa Convention, other international commitments on human rights and the form of government in relation to secular elements in schools, preschools and recreation centres, regardless of whether the principal is public or private. 2018:15). According to the agreement reached between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, existing secular schools should be better controlled and a stop to establishment should be introduced for independent primary and secondary schools with a secular focus. There is therefore work in progress on both secular elements in school and on honour-related violence and oppression in school. I see this work as important in order to get a comprehensive light on freedom of religion and the right to wear religious dress in relation to secular elements in school, preschool and recreation centres.
i-bb676b422f255d93-471	Mr President, I would like to Austria has recently adopted a law prohibiting the wearing of veils in its primary schools. The decision is directed against what is called political Islam and is aimed not least at improving integration and counteracting Islam's oppression of girls. In Staffanstorp, the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates have made a similar decision on a veil ban for children in preschool and primary school up to the sixth grade. Now the Moderates at national level are not behind the proposal, which I regret, but the Swedish Democrats do. On the basis of the Staffanstorp decision, arguments have been put forward alleging that such a decision would not be lawful and would be contrary to the so-called freedom of religion. In reply to my interpellation, for which I am also grateful, the Minister puts forward similar arguments. However, I myself believe that the arguments are hollow. It should be unreasonable to interpret the law in this way. Mr President, I would like to In a democracy like Sweden, of course, you have the right to believe in any god or gods you want. This does not mean, however, that one has the right to impose this faith on someone else, especially a child. I would like to point out that freedom of religion is not only about freedom to something, but also freedom from something, freedom from religion. What the Minister calls freedom of religion is, in fact, many times a coercion. To force children, or rather girls, to wear veils, thus runs counter to freedom of religion, for the Minister should not imagine that the girls do so voluntarily. I find that very hard to imagine. The Minister also says that everyone who works in school should promote respect for the freedom and integrity of the individual, the equal value of all people, equality between girls and boys and so on. But forcing girls, in some cases very young girls, veils actually counteract everything the minister lists. That should be as far away from the equal value of people and equality at all. Mr President, I would like to It is not credible when the government says it wants to fight honour-related violence and oppression at school while allowing girls with Muslim parents to be exposed to this very thing. I find the answer remarkable, and it is remarkable that a minister in a Swedish government defends, in my opinion, outdated and oppressive customs and practices. It is an Islamic oppression of girls who are slowly but surely normalising not only here in Sweden but also in large parts of the Western world. Given that the Arabic word hijab, as I understand it, means barrier or shield, it is obvious that it is about the sexualization of girls and in many cases very small girls. The Islamists seem to regard them as a sort of sex object. These little girls should be covered so as not to provoke Muslim men and their lusts. The veil is therefore nothing more than a cementation of very unhealthy gender roles. In fact, it is a disgusting way of looking at children and girls. In connection with the ban in Staffanstorp, the minister's party partner in the same municipality, opposition council and social democrat Pierre Sjöström, among other things, has called the proposal a non-question. According to the Social Democrats in Staffanstorp, the Islamic repression of girls is therefore a non-issue.
i-bb676b422f255d93-479	Mr President, I would like to It was a cannonade of questions. Let me begin by saying that there is no doubt that we should not force anyone – at least one child – to wear religious dress or objects or expressions that go against the person's will. I think we can fully agree on that. However, I am no longer in if we go one more step and take it another lap and say that we at school are going to force children not to wear clothes that the students themselves choose to wear. I think that a large number of those who work in the Swedish school also do not really follow. The teachers in the Swedish school have, with today's legislation, with the current European Convention, with the Swedish Constitution, with the applicable school law and with the current curriculum, a great opportunity to decide in the classroom. I think that's good. I have great confidence in Sweden's teachers, and I think it is the teachers who should decide over the teaching. The teacher who considers or decides on the basis of his professional judgement that the wearing of some kind of garment, religiously or not, disrupts teaching, prevents educational activities or communication, poses a safety risk, can cause problems in laboratory work or in work where there is fire or similar, or causes problems from a hygienic point of view, today has every opportunity to simply decide that the garment should not occur. But Sweden's teachers do not have the opportunity to decide that children must wear or not wear garments because of the religious significance of the garments. If Richard Jomshof's question means that he asks if I want to change the law, so that teachers, in addition to the educational, safety and hygiene reasons, can also invoke their own religious assessments as the basis for which the children should be allowed to wear or not wear, the answer to the question is that I do not want any change to Swedish law on that point. I have great confidence in the Swedish teachers' ability and ambition to meet the high demands of our school team and our curricula. These requirements include that teachers should ensure that pupils present in the classroom receive the education that students are entitled to according to the law and curriculum, but also that teachers should take the sometimes rather difficult discussions that can arise with students about where the boundaries of different forms of individual and collective freedoms are going and how the values of the Swedish school should be interpreted in practice. I want to put that power in the hands of the teachers. I trust Sweden's teachers.
i-bb676b422f255d93-484	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is today one of the world's most democratic and equal countries. There are, of course, things that can be improved in Sweden. But compared to the rest of the world, we have a lot of good things. That is why I am saddened to see socialists and liberals smashing all that we are taking for granted today with their mass immigration, multiculturalism and Islamisation. Mr President, I would like to The Muslim veil is an Islamic symbol that symbolises both religious submission and forced division between men and women or boys and girls. It is designed by men to oppress women and girls and should thus be contrary to all that our open, democratic, equal and secular society stands for. I also have faith in the teachers. But I do not have confidence in the government, and I certainly do not have confidence in the Islamists, whose affairs the government runs. At the beginning of June 2018, the media reported that 27 out of 40 municipal preschools in so-called vulnerable areas in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö could consider controlling children and forcing them to wear a veil. In addition, it was reported that school staff filmed children in order to assure parents that the child does not take off the veil at school. This is Sweden 2018 – 2019. However, the example is just one of many. For several years, we have been able to see how Islamists have moved forward their positions in Sweden with the good will of the government. This has emerged not least in the Swedish school. For example, it has been reported that veiled little girls have been forced to sit behind the boys at the back of the classroom at Växjö Islamic School, that girls with menstruation have been unwelcome to parts of the teaching at Muslim Römosse School in Gothenburg and that the Al-Azhar School in Vällingby has a division between girls and boys on the school bus, so that veiled girls are forced to sit at the back of the bus. In connection with the writings about Al-Azharskolan in Vällingby, Professor Håkan Larsson says, among other things, that the reaction from the Swedish School Inspectorate would have been quite different if it had been a non-Muslim school, which in that case suggests that the School Inspectorate does not treat all schools equally and that one is evasive towards the Islamic repression of girls. Mr President, I would like to It is bad enough that adult women are subjected to this oppression. However, it is even worse when children – girls – are exposed to the same thing. Girls who are subjected to Muslim oppression in the home must be given the chance to avoid this at least during school. It is our duty to ensure that these children are allowed to be children, with the opportunity to grow up to be independent and critical thinking individuals. No one should imagine that these children have that opportunity – not a chance! Furthermore, repression is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which refers not least to the integrity, free expression and self-determination of children. One way to fight the Islamists and one way to combat this Islamist oppression is to impose a veiled ban in pre- and primary school. In view of what I have asked, does the Minister not see these problems? Does the Minister seriously believe that this would be a voluntary act? We're just talking about girls, not boys. We're talking about Muslim girls, not girls in general. Does the minister mean that it would be a voluntary item of clothing? What happens to these girls if they take off their veil? There are many examples of what is happening – it is expressed in what is called honorary oppression. Does the minister really not see the problem? It would also be interesting to hear the answer to the question I put in my first speech: does the Minister reject Islamism?
i-bb676b422f255d93-493	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish school curriculum is not negotiable. The curriculum should apply equally to all children in Sweden. Richard Jomshof cites a number of examples that I suppose are picked from the media. For the sake of the discussion, I assume they are correct. As far as I can judge, in all these cases it applies to things that are contrary to the Swedish school curriculum and the Swedish school's legislation and that are to be reported to the Children's and Student Ombudsman, the principal and the School Inspectorate. The school inspectorate has also acted in a number of cases. This should not occur in Swedish schools. In the Swedish school there is the curriculum, which is not negotiable. Mr Jomshof also asks a number of questions. One of the questions is how I look at– I did not really understand whether it was Islamism or political Islam that was the issue.
i-bb676b422f255d93-496	I strongly oppose the practice of crime or terrorist activity in the name of religion. I am not going to stand by and answer Mr Jomshof's question. There is only one reason for this, namely that Mr Jomshof himself has taken the power to define what Islamism means. I take the power to tell myself what I think. I strongly reject, in the name of religion, the practice of oppression, of unequal treatment of people or of activities that are not compatible with Swedish law. Then Richard Jomshof gets to interpret it in any way he wants. Richard Jomshof again assumes that every case where a person in Sweden wears a veil is a case of coercion. I want to be clear. As soon as someone forces a woman or a child to put on a veil against the will of this woman or child, it is he who forces the girl or the woman to commit an error. The fault is not committed by the girl or the woman who in that case is forced. I would like to direct the actions of society towards those who force, not those who are forced to do so. However, Mr Jomshof must also see that there are quite difficult border-drawing problems. We imagine a grown woman who is 18 years old, goes to high school and has a veil of her own free will. There is no form of coercion. In that case, I assume that Mr Jomshof agrees with me that that woman should at least have a right to have her opinion judged. At least I come to the conclusion that that woman should have the right to dress in the way she wants as long as she does not prevent or interfere for the reasons I have just given. Now Richard Jomshof seems to think that this is a right that you should have as an adult woman – the younger the girl, the harder it is to claim that she can put on a veil of her own free will. We end up here in rather difficult border-drawing problems. I think that Mr Jomshof agrees with me when I say that those bordering problems should be taken very seriously. It is about the constitutionally protected and the European Convention protected the right to freedom of religion. I want Swedish freedom of religion to be used to allow all girls and all women to express their own faith in the way they want, not in the way someone else wants. I assume Richard Jomshof agrees with me. From this I cannot conclude that a ban would be the right way forward.
i-bb676b422f255d93-500	Mr President, I would like to I think exactly the opposite. A ban is exactly the way we're going. It's the only way to fight the Islamists. No one should imagine that it is women themselves who have made up the nonsense of wearing a veil in whatever form it may be. It is Muslim men, Islamists, who have invented it to oppress women and divide them. They think they're unclean, and so on. It's not a female invention. I think you're crawling to Islamists. This is not just happening in Sweden. It also happens in other parts of the Western world. It's serious. Not least is it serious for the children who deserve much more than that. It is not enough to say that it is problematic or that one should fight honour repression. It is nothing but empty words when Islamist oppression is allowed to last year after year. In this case, young girls are affected. So it's not about boys, it's about girls. I believe that multicultural Sweden has been created with its mass immigration and Islamisation is nothing more than Frankenstein's monster. We see how it is tearing Sweden apart. We see how in this case girls are deprived of their opportunity to be individuals of their own, self-thinking, critical thinking individuals. We take it from them, or rather, you are doing this. Everything we have been fighting for in Sweden for centuries, for generations, is now being demolished. That's exactly what's happening. Our democracy is being dismantled with the help of socialists and liberals. It may well be that you are doing so out of some kind of naive faith. What do I know? But the end result will still be the same. It will be destroyed if nothing is done. Unlike the Minister, I believe that the fight against anti-democratic, anti-violent and anti-female Islamists should be taken every day, every day of the week, at all levels. I regret what I consider to be a very naive view of this. It's a very dangerous sight. If you may continue, it will end in total disaster, I'm afraid.
i-bb676b422f255d93-505	Mr President, I would like to Richard Jomshof is storming against what he calls mass immigration. I would like to remind you that Sweden has rules for migration which are now among the strictest in Europe. I would also like to remind you that the Swedish school, for which Mr Jomshof is concerned, has a number of major problems. One of the problems we have is that religious free schools have been started. The examples cited by Richard Jomshof are to a large extent those allegedly happening, discovered happening or proven to happen in various forms of secular schools. It may be that you let boys and girls sit in different places on the bus or that you have gender-disaggregated sports lessons. It may be other cases, such as the fact that sports and health are not allowed to dance together. It may be a matter of not swimming or swimming together. These misconceptions have been revealed in what is called secular free schools. For me, it is a mystery that the Swedish Democrats put up with the system we have where religious and secular free schools should not be touched. It is also a mystery to me that the rules for the establishment of free schools that the government recently tightened up did not receive the support of the Swedish Democrats. It was thanks to the tightening up that we can now say that the kind of schools where, in the name of religion, a distinction has been made between boys and girls should have more problems starting. Unfortunately, the Swedish democrats have not been there on the Government's proposal. I am absolutely convinced that the Swedish rule of law, our Swedish school and our Swedish society are best served by all of us standing up for what is the Swedish law. The Swedish curriculum is not negotiable. Boys and girls should be treated in the same way and have the same rights and obligations. I will fight this too hard in the Swedish school regardless of religion.
i-bb676b422f255d93-510	Mr President, I would like to Maria Nilsson has asked me how I intend to proceed with, develop and intensify the work on the Roma inclusion strategy during the next parliamentary term. Let me begin by emphasising that the work on national minorities and Roma inclusion are priority issues for the government. The objective of the Roma inclusion strategy is that the 20-year-old Roma should have equal opportunities in life to those who are not Roma. This requires efforts with a clear focus on change and long-term sustainability. We are in an important phase in the work on Roma inclusion, when we gather the experience so far and have started discussions on the focus of work from 2020. We can see, among other things, that several of the municipalities that have chosen to work with the issue find it difficult to anchor work on Roma inclusion broadly in the municipal structure. Together with the Roma reference group of the Government Office, we are now discussing how experiences, knowledge and tools generated by the work on Roma inclusion can be better exploited at the local level. Among other things, we have good experience from activities with bridge builders with Roma language and cultural skills that act as a link between Roma and the public. We need to take care of these experiences in the further work. We know that we can achieve success when the Roma are given the opportunity to have real influence and participation in the work. Here we see that there has been a development in the work on Roma inclusion. From the fact that Roma have served most as a partner, more and more work is now being done among municipalities and authorities together with the Roma. It is a development that the government wants to continue to support. It is also important to create the conditions for Roma women and young people to speak, participate in, and take part in various activities in the future work. We know that many Roma still suffer discrimination and anti-Ziganism in everyday life, which means that they often hide their Roma identity, including in contact with various public activities. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. In 2018, the Stockholm County Administrative Board distributed around 20,000 copies of the educational material based on the White Paper on abuse and violations of the Roma during the 20th century, which Maria Nilsson also mentions in her interpellation. I want to be clear there. To include efforts to increase knowledge of Roma history, status as a national minority, and the situation today, I see as a matter of course. Finally, I would like to thank Maria Nilsson for the urgent interpellation.
i-bb676b422f255d93-517	Mr President, I would like to This is my first interpellation debate. I'll try to stay on the mat. I thank the Minister for her answer to my interpellation. Let us first state that Roma inclusion is an issue which, with any exception, should not be politically divided. Nor is it my intention to create such disagreement here today. Mr President, I would like to I am concerned that almost a third of the time in the 20-year strategy has passed, and so much remains to be done. It is worrying that so much is still based on project ideas and that there is so little long-termism. It is worrying that municipalities do not seem to take Roma inclusion work seriously unless the state constantly spends money. It is worrying that the authorities are hiding among fine words in long reports, but it is difficult to see whether there has been any concrete improvement. Mr President, I would like to Few, like the Roma, have suffered systematic expulsion, hatred, threats and discrimination. The Swedish state has repeatedly been involved in the abuse of Roma. Until 1959, it was not allowed for Roma children to attend school. It was the same year that the Roma were given the right to vote. Madam President, I would like Before I gained confidence as a Member of Parliament last autumn, I worked with questions about anti-Ziganism at the Forum for Living History, among other things. I have heard many stories about exclusion and discrimination. There are a few stories that touch a lot more. These are stories where Roma testify to how they hide their Roma identity in order to get a job and keep a job. Not being able to say who you are or what background you have is not worthy of a Sweden in 2019. It's called antiziganism, and it's widespread. The Roma strategy contains a number of different orientations. There is a focus on municipal work, first via pilot municipalities and then through what is called development municipalities. There is a focus on authorities that have received government assignments, such as Boverket, Arbetsförmedlingen, Discrimination Ombudsman, Skolverket, Socialstyrelsen and so on. There is also a thematic focus on housing, the labour market, health care, school, civil society and gender equality. The Roma inclusion strategy is an excellent basis to stand on. But when we have seen the first six seven years of work, the question is whether that is enough. This is particularly true if the state, government and parliament, are sufficiently clear and sufficiently demanding that municipalities and authorities must act. Madam President, I would like In its interpellation response, the Government states that the issue of Roma inclusion is a priority for the government. That sounds good; I share the view on this. But my first questions to the Government must be: in what way is it a priority? How is it noticeable, and how will it be noticed?
i-bb676b422f255d93-525	Madam President, I would like The goal of the work on Roma inclusion, as Maria Nilsson says, is that all Roma, regardless of where they live, should have the same equal opportunities in life as those who are not Roma. The starting point of ensuring compliance with the human rights of the Roma, because that is what this is all about, is a particular responsibility for me and the government. The last parliamentary term saw an increase in the ambition of Swedish minority policy, including the Roma group, and I intend to continue the work with the same intensity. The White Paper was an important part of making visible from the state side the dark history that exists, where the state has exposed the Roma group to various forms of abuse and where there has been long-standing discrimination. The stories highlighted, also by Maria Nilsson, terrify and upset. They also call for further work. We see that there are challenges in the work, but there are also many good experiences to take care of and disseminate. Here, the government and I mean that in order for us to take steps further into the next four-year period in the work on Roma inclusion, we must seriously review the efforts we have made so far. So we can see what has been success factors and what has been things that we can and should encourage. The municipalities that are working on the Roma inclusion issue should not have to invent the wheel again now that we have a number of municipalities that have acted as development municipalities for this. The Government believes it is important that the County Administrative Board of Stockholm County has the capacity to provide this relevant support in the work. It is also Stockholm County Administrative Board that has this task. This applies both to support for municipalities active in Roma inclusion and to those which have not yet chosen to do so. Experience needs to be documented and compiled in a clearer way that provides the best conditions for more municipalities to make practical use of them. That is the purpose. Therefore, I am pleased to be able to tell you that the Government intends to make a decision on Wednesday to provide the County Administrative Board in Stockholm County with 1.3 million to do this. It is an important step in how we can take advantage of the work that has been done so far. I would also like to highlight the fact that the new law on national minorities and minority languages has implemented stricter requirements, which means, among other things, that all municipalities and county councils are obliged to adopt targets and guidelines for their minority policy work. This is therefore not just the case for municipalities working on the Roma inclusion strategy. The hope on my part is that the reform will be important for the impact of minority policy outside the administrative areas, because, as we know, the work on the Roma minority has not been identified as an administrative area. It is also about the work for Roma inclusion in the future. I would also like to mention an area which is also important: the work on the revitalisation of the language. Access to one's national minority languages is fundamental in order to have one's human rights respected. The Institute for Languages and People's Memories has been tasked with investigating the design of language centres for the national minority languages. There we are waiting for feedback this autumn about Roma languages and what such an organisation could look like. There are therefore important processes under way, and I would like to stress once again how important it is for us to do this together with the Roma group. That is how we build long-term stability and success in our work.
i-bb676b422f255d93-535	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to start by staying a little bit at what the Government says about targets and guidelines for the municipalities for their minority policy. That's great; I have no objection there. But the problem arises when we are going to take a step further and the fine goals and orientations are actually going to result in something concrete that creates improvements for the Roma living in the municipality. I cannot compare, but there have been a large number of follow-ups, current situation analyses, evaluations and follow-up research efforts of Roma inclusion work. I'm an accomplice to some of them. But I can say with determination that I do not believe that it is a further study or analysis that will lead to concrete improvements. That's where I can feel a certain frustration. How are we going to take this from the fine objectives and the fine recommendations in all the reports to lead to concrete improvements for those affected by this? My first question to the Government is therefore: how do you go from the fine words to the concrete actions? The Government mentioned Roma participation. It's incredibly important. The 2018 Annual Report of the County Administrative Board shows that the strategy needs to further strengthen Roma participation and influence. There is the question: What does the Government do to assess how to do this? What suggestions could be envisaged? The same report highlights the importance of Roma media as a channel for reaching Roma. Specific mention is made, among other things, of É Romani Glinda. In the spring, however, it was announced that É Romani Glinda will be shut down due to a lack of resources. It is worrying that this channel will not remain when the County Administrative Board mentions it as important. Madam President, I would like The interpellation response continues to mention the good experience of the bridge builder business. I fully share the government's analysis that bridge builders have been very important, not least for trust between the Roma minority and representatives of the majority society. At the same time, there are challenges in the work with bridge builders. We know that there are few applicants and that the pace of study combined with regular work in your municipality of residence is extremely burdensome. Not everyone is able to complete the training, and as I said, few are applying for it. I think we need to look at how to make bridge building training better and more accessible to the Roma.
i-bb676b422f255d93-542	Madam President, I would like I can clarify what I meant when I described the resource enhancement to the County Administrative Board in Stockholm County. The aim is not to make it a long investigation or a paper product. We have now gone through a four-year period of action within the framework of the Roma strategy for Roma inclusion, i.e. concrete, robust action. I think, therefore, that we have already gone from words to deeds. However, I share Maria Nilsson's frustration that we need to move forward more quickly. These are issues where we have a relatively short time, and although the objective of the strategy is a number of years away, we naturally wish that this were already in place today. For every year, many people do not have their rights fulfilled. What we are going to do, just as Maria Nilsson is concerned, is to draw conclusions from the things we have done and see if they can be pointed and done in a different way. How should we give priority to practical concrete actions in the future? Bridge building is one of those things. We see that it has been an important tool for reducing the confidence gap that actually exists between Roma and the public and that it is a very good example of how Roma themselves can be involved in the work. But just as Maria Nilsson states, the demand for education has fallen, and there are challenges in taking part in it. Then the question is, Why is that? Is there anything in the business that we're going to change? It is a typical such thing that we can look at before we set our foot on what the focus should be in the next four-year cycle in the implementation of the Roma inclusion strategy. Another point that has come to light, which can nevertheless be an example of how cooperation with the Roma group generates concrete action, is how Roma women can benefit from the strategy's efforts. It is an issue which has come from below and which has been discussed within the Roma Cooperation Council. This is also part of the decision that the government will take on Wednesday – to commission the County Administrative Board of Stockholm County to carry out capacity-building efforts aimed at Roma girls and women. Then the mission is relatively broad, so that efforts can be developed in dialogue with the Roma group. These are two examples of how we can take advantage of the efforts that have been made and try to sharpen them and make them even better and sharper. This also applies to the development of work at local level. It is an absolute core issue for it to work. Work at local level must work when implementing the strategy. Then I would like to comment on this by involving the target group. It is about involving the Roma themselves in this. From the outset, it has been the ambition of the strategy to be characterised by Roma influence and participation. I would just like to confirm here that I and the government see it as crucial. If work on Roma inclusion is to succeed, forms of Roma influence also need to be developed. Capacity and knowledge-raising efforts for both Roma civil society and other national minorities' civil societies are part of which I and the government see a need. Then there is this magazine. The financing of it is a decision taken by an authority that I, as a minister, do not have or should not have influence over. All questions relating to how we take these issues further will also be the subject of a budget discussion. Nor can I say anything about this today more than that the work on Roma inclusion should and must continue with vigour.
i-bb676b422f255d93-552	Madam President, I would like The Government points to important elements here. I'd like to send you something for your further work. The first is: Take advantage of the experience gained during the pilot project! This concerns the methods and strategies that the five pilot municipalities were involved in developing. Already after a year one could look at what was left in the pilot municipalities. It was rather doubtful, because much work was built around individuals and about individual state grants that came during the pilot municipality period. Do not repeat that mistake with regard to the developing municipalities! I'd like to send that with the government. The second is: it sounds very good that we have to move from words to actions and make words less fluffy and more concrete. I hope that in the coming years we will indeed see examples of this. We probably do not need more analyses or investigations, but we need concrete work that actually reaches the target group that this work will reach: the Roma minority. Much of what I have said here has been mentioned before, but when things are going so slowly and sometimes developments are perceived as going backwards rather than forwards, there is a need for politicians and governments to show the momentum and show the way. Madam President, I would like It's about influence. It is about trust in a society that has often failed. But most of all it is about human rights – fundamental human rights.
i-bb676b422f255d93-557	Madam President, I would like The objective of our minority policy is to provide protection for national minorities. It is to strengthen their ability to influence and support the historical minority languages so that they are kept alive. And that is only something we can do by practical action. If it stops at words, society has failed again. This means combating discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity, belonging to a national minority. There we have an action plan against racism and hate crime which is also important and which my colleague Åsa Lindhagen has to manage but which of course I also work with within the framework of my areas. National minorities should be able to fully develop their potential and have the same conditions in society as the majority population. We cannot and should not be content with anything less. The fact that Roma still feel compelled to hide their identity because of fear of discrimination or harassment is no less than a total failure on the part of society. Not until Roma and the rest of the population have equal opportunities in life and Roma at the same time dare to be open with their identity can we talk about Roma gaining access to their human rights. In order for us to get there, the government but also municipalities, authorities and society at large need to take their responsibility to combat prejudice and discrimination. The knowledge of Roma, Roma history and Roma as a national minority needs to be increased in society. Roma culture and the Roma language need to be strengthened, and we need to let Roma become even more involved in issues related to them. Finally, I would like to thank Maria Nilsson for raising this important issue. This is a task that I take very seriously and in which we must continue to fight together.
