i-0fa63402d782d892-0	Mr President, I would like to Few Swedes are following the debate today. People are busy working, vabbing and studying, and that's exactly how it should be. People live their lives, do their duty, and they also know that they can claim their right. It is a basic attitude that has built our country, a country that we are so proud of. In the history of Sweden's success, there are values that are absolutely central. It is duty to work, duty in general, right, equality, democracy and equality. But the story of Sweden is also a story of concrete broad initiatives. It is investments in housing, security and school that were often opposed by right-wing opposition but then became an obvious part of people's everyday lives. It was efforts made with the conviction that social problems are best solved together and that major economic gaps between the few rich and the many who toiled at work must be combated. It was investments that together with both small companies and large industries lifted Sweden. It was an effort for a strong country where people are free to rule their own lives. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's success is also based on the same principles today. Today too, it is a strong care, school and police we pay together that enables people to have a good life. This is how we have built Sweden strongly, and so we will solve today's social problems. It is about gang crime, shootings, the climate crisis, faster integration and care that needs to be made more accessible. We will solve these problems with new methods but with the same attitude that built our country. We'll do it together. We're on the right track. We are now building step by step a strong Sweden where no one should be left behind. On the basis of the January agreement, the government can ensure that Sweden makes improvements for our elderly. Since 2014, a pensioner has received an average of SEK 1,600 more in his wallet every month. Now we are continuing to improve the economy further, especially for those with the lowest pensions. We ensure that Sweden can act harder against the crimes and its causes. We've raised the penalties for 30 crimes, and 10,000 more will be employed in the Police Department. Now we are also moving forward with a wide range of suggestions that provide the police with better tools, such as reading encrypted chats. We prevent new crimes by hiring more teachers and teaching assistants and prioritising schools with tough conditions. We ensure, not least, that Sweden can begin the green construction of society. Children who today attend preschool and learn the names of forest animals have a right to their future. It is we in here and in other political assemblies who must lead the transition, and then it should be a fair transition at the social level. A person's sacrifice will not save the climate. A lonely person will never be able to bear the burden or cost that it entails if we do not reset in time. A failed climate change will hit everyone. But it will also suffer unjustly. The economic class divides are also climate divides. Those with the highest income and the greatest wealth will find it easier to buy themselves free from the consequences of the climate crisis. That is why society must take overall responsibility. It is now a matter of changing with strong political action. How we manage to become the world's first fossil-free welfare nation through a fair transition. It's a huge opportunity. When society continues to support companies to change, our industry can be the first to be fossil-free. Then it can export, make environmental benefits in other countries and hire more people here at home. We'll get more money for pensions and school. In addition to a question about the future of children, climate change is a matter of our future welfare.
i-0fa63402d782d892-9	Sweden is strengthened by continuing our historic investment in healthcare, school, home care and everything that makes people throughout our country feel safe and demanding their right. But against the common construction of society have always been ideas that alone is strong. Having read the draft budgets of the right-wing conservative parties, I realise that they have the same thoughts today as 80 years ago, 30 years ago and 10 years ago, namely that poverty makes people more effective, that the sick are healthy by economic whips, that society should actually withdraw and that the construction of society should be discontinued. These are ideas that lead to people being lonely and Sweden becoming weak. We live in a troubled time. Look at Syria, Turkey, Brexit and trade wars. Then it is even more important that Sweden is strong. We condemn the Turkish attack in northern Syria. The situation has major humanitarian consequences, not least for the Kurds. In addition, it can lead to the regrowth of IS. We've been preparing for Brexit. However, in a world of conflict and a trend in which countries join, the need for a strong Sweden and a strong Europe shows up where we do not duck for the problems but solve them together. Mr President, I would like to Most people, regardless of whether they're working, vabbing or studying today, want a society that takes responsibility so that there are times at the health center, so that parents' income is not crucial for the teenager's future, so that the police have the resources to solve both gang crime and bike theft, and so that responsibility for our time's fate climate should never lie on the mother in the interior of Norrland who has to drive his son 50 miles to football training. We take that responsibility together. That's what community building looks like. That's what our budget looks like. I believe in Sweden and in our ability. Our amazing country can also cope with the really difficult problems as long as we do it as a united society and build Sweden strong for everyone.
i-0fa63402d782d892-13	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a fantastic country. It's not exactly like everyone else, and luck is. We have long been a small country with great success. I think of the unique Swedish equality and trust, that one is as good as another and that where you are going means so much more than where you come from. It's a good basis for social mobility, or class trips that were said when my parents were young, and trust. We usually trust each other. But it's something bigger than that. It is an unwritten contract between the state and the citizens. You work, you support yourself and you contribute to others. The state does well what only the state can do, the social contract. Together with the work line, it has paved the way for technologically advanced and world-leading companies, export earnings and Nobel Prizes. Today it is about music that conquers the world and innovations that drive the climate work forward. All this is Sweden at its best. But I am seriously concerned now, because Sweden has major problems. And as the problems grow, the Social Democrats lose control – first over Sweden and then over the government itself. There is an open fight before an open curtain, and not on any small issues or between junior ministers, but on the absolutely fundamental question of whether Sweden should now increase immigration or reduce it. We see a deputy prime minister reprimanding his boss. And not because I think she is right, but it is she who rightly describes the government's immigration policy. For the government, this is most embarrassing; for Sweden it is harmful. At the same time, we are seeing the state withdraw where the state should be strong. Hardworking Swedes do not get currency for tax money. They don't know if they can trust the police to come, they don't know if they're getting care on time, they don't know if there's enough resources for the defense and they don't even know if there's enough electricity to do that. Of course, not everything is bad. People continue to do good things in our country every day. But the public contract is under threat. Let me just take three examples. Firstly, unemployment is now increasing. The government abandoned the goal of Europe's lowest unemployment when Sweden got Europe's fourth highest. Instead of abolishing unemployment, the government itself abolished the objective. The Social Democrats are once again neglecting the line of work. Last time it was Swedes in the middle of life who lived on grants year after year. To stamp out unemployment, the Social Democrats had retired half a million Swedes in 2005. I myself worked in the government on the reforms that broke this development. After eight years in Sweden, every other immigrant still lacks a job. It takes an average of 18 years for those who have immigrated without upper secondary education to even get a foothold in the labour market. Women are particularly vulnerable. Unemployment is six times as high among immigrant women as among native Swedes. Every third woman from African and Asian countries is unemployed in Sweden. Only half of them are working now, after years of boom. Sweden now has normalised selective mass unemployment. It should not be possible to choose grants before work in Sweden. It is absurd for companies to have to hire low-skilled labour force immigrants to pick berries, for example, when many thousands of people go idle in Sweden at the same time. Secondly, the government is now pursuing an unsustainable immigration policy. Last year, 42 000 people were granted asylum-linked residence permits in Sweden. It's a whole new Nyköping in a year. We can't go on like this. The country's municipalities are crying out for help from the state. Too much immigration and too little integration are now creating the problems that make Filipstad and Eskilstuna demand that the state assume their responsibilities. Integration problems go as a common thread through almost all of Sweden's major problems: crime, dependency on benefits, unemployment, segregation and poor school outcomes. Now we must ensure that those who have already come to Sweden also enter Swedish society, and a prerequisite for that is reduced immigration now. Thirdly, Sweden has become one of the countries in Europe that has the most serious criminality. Denmark introduced border controls the other week because they do not trust Sweden's ability to stop shootings and blasts. For three years there have been nearly 1 000 shootings, of which over 100 were fatal. A few days ago, a 25-year-old was brutally beaten when he told a youth gang to stop throwing eggs at his car. His civil courage led to a broken jaw and kicked out teeth. What parents will ask their own children to show civil courage? Mr President, I would like to This government's economic policy jeopardises Sweden's long-term prosperity. We can measure this in unemployment and in benefit expenditure. But it is worse that the government is jeopardising the Swedish social contract. We can only feel that. This can't go on. The Moderates will map out a better way forward, because it is possible to reverse developments. Sweden has solved difficult problems before and taken on great opportunities. The Moderates will seek support in the Swedish Parliament for a better policy than this government, for it is the parliament that decides – not the government. Ultimately, it is the voters who decide, and the Moderates will be the assembly party for those who want to jointly address Sweden's major problems.
i-0fa63402d782d892-28	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is not the same. Sweden has been divided, and Sweden has been torn apart. At the same time as municipalities around the country stand on something that one could liken to the ruin's steep cut insecurity as a knife between senders. It cuts through cities, and it cuts through communities. Not a single day goes by without the newspapers being filled with headlines about new bombings, new shootings and new cold-hammed jumps on ordinary honest citizens. Not a single day goes by without us hearing heartbreaking stories about how our elderly are taking the fall when the municipalities are now forced to make savings. This is the harsh reality of failure. According to SKL, in 2022 municipalities will need SEK 38 billion more than today. The government is not even close to covering this need. The government's budget, Mr President, is nothing more than a slap in the face of the municipalities facing major deficits, cuts or tax increases. We do not accept this. We're shooting at the funds the local authorities need. For us, older people's right to a dignified old age precedes a new year of freedom for people who already have a job. For us, sick people are able to get adequate care before a so-called family week. For us, care for each other goes before tax cuts for those who earn the most. The government's incoherent pytique policy means that ordinary honest people who have faithfully paid taxes year after year and contributed to the common treasury are now forced to see how welfare is no longer able to deliver. I have to ask myself, Mr President, whether it was worth it. Was it worth the price that the elderly and the sick have to pay today? In all these years that we in my party have warned against this development, we have been met by various derogatory epithets. We have been given protection when the hate speech of the left-wing liberal establishment has washed over us wherever we have been and whatever we have said. Now we are faced with fact. Now that reality is speaking clearly, I think it would be nice and natural to take on the responsibility and settle what has been achieved. You should do your best to sort things out. Politicians can be wrong, and politicians can do wrong. But we don't see a symmetry of self-examination and not a symmetry of insight. We do not see a bit of understanding of how bad the situation is today in Sweden. It is deeply worrying that it will have to go this far and probably even further. Mr President, I would like to We who say that it is time to put our own elderly, sick and employees first, unfortunately, are still fighting in the headwind, and we are still a minority in this House. Those of us who say that there must be a stop to the constant influx of new asylum and family migrants for the foreseeable future still face the cold hand of a majority in this House. We who say that now is the time to put our foot down and mark for real against all these cold-hammed criminals are still faced with juice-and-bubble policies in response. Mr President, I would like to Let us say as it is: Sweden is facing really big problems. Sweden has really big problems. And unfortunately, Mr President, I am convinced that the government we have today, with the government basis we have today of the left-wing liberal parties in this House, will not be able to deal with these problems. We must have a different policy and a different government.
i-0fa63402d782d892-37	Mr President, I would like to We live in a land of contrasts. It is a country where entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs develop Sweden for the better every day, a country where over 5 million people this morning went to work in some of our over 1 million companies. In many areas, Sweden is doing well. At the same time, there are also a great many areas where the reality is different. Hundreds of thousands of people lack jobs to go to, a salary to live on, colleagues and routines. Around Sweden, insecurity enters people's everyday lives. It is felt that mortal violence draws closer, how parts of the country drift apart, and how care and welfare become less accessible. You can see how climate change affects our country, our landscape and our lives. Too many unfortunately see a darker tomorrow, experience a life of alienation and feel that their voice is no longer heard. When too many go with a lump over what tomorrow will bring, it is actually our job to show how we move forward. With liberal reforms, we can give all people a chance to succeed. The contrasts can be erased. More people can get a job, hope for tomorrow and a salary of their own. We must see the forgotten Sweden and give the outsiders a voice. The budget that the Center Party has been involved in negotiating takes important and welcome steps forward to realise the liberal reform agenda and provide more people with a new security. We reduce the tax on businesses and more jobs, on rural areas and on the country's pensioners by EUR 13 billion. We are beginning to close the unfair tax gap between town and country by allowing 850 000 rural people to keep more money in their wallets. What the Center Party raised as late as last summer is now becoming a reality at the turn of the year. We make it cheaper to hire and make it easier to get a job through an entry deduction where we significantly lower the employer's contribution for young people, for new arrivals and for the long-term unemployed. It gives more people the chance to get a long-awaited job and keep more of their own money. It is a way forward to create a new security for more people throughout the country. For real security, too, it requires a strong fight against organized crime and deadly violence. The limit of decency has long been crossed when a young mother is executed on an open street with her newborn baby in her arms or when a bomb destroys over 200 apartments and blows out glass windows at preschool next door in bright everyday life. I hope that the parliamentary security committee proposed by the Center Party, which is now also becoming a reality, can take us further. The judiciary and society deserve it from us. Only with cooperation and strong joint action can we build a new security for more people. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is now becoming a greener country. We have negotiated the most ambitious environmental and climate budget ever, with environmental and climate reforms that are both concrete and effective. It obviously makes a difference when there are two green parties that cooperate and negotiate on the budget. We need to make it easier for everyone, for people and for businesses, to be more climate-smart. We must reduce emissions through research and innovation and realise that rural areas are crucial in the green transition. The Center Party wants Sweden to become self-sufficient in biofuels by using the fantastic natural resources we have to increase the production of renewable biofuels. Now it is invested in more charging poles across the country. The climate bonus is reinforced for more environmental cars. People's investments in small-scale energy such as solar cells are being greatly expanded, as well as efforts to develop climate-smart buses, trucks and machines. It must pay to be climate-smart. At the same time, we will continue with the next generation of environmental technologies, which began last spring. It is not enough simply to reduce emissions; we must also remove emissions from the atmosphere. The industrial life, where our important, heavy base industry is at the forefront of a green transition, is now being strengthened but also with a continued focus on negative emissions. Technology development and attainable environmental objectives go hand in hand. We need to speed up emissions reduction, not development. It is good for the climate, competitiveness and industry, because it is through entrepreneurship, green innovations and strengthened green growth that we will solve the climate challenge. A good entrepreneurial policy is a good environmental policy. We are all in a position to succeed, but then we need to be able to look forward and continue to reform and liberalise our country. This requires courage, responsibility and action, as well as a policy that builds new security for all.
i-0fa63402d782d892-50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak to you. In northern Syria the Turkish tanks roll forward. In front of them, hundreds of thousands of people flee. The Islamic state, which seemed to be defeated, vents morning air. Those who defeated the Islamic state, or thought they did, are now those who are being chased across the plains. The hope of a better future seems to be extinguished for many people. This is also the responsibility of the outside world. It was the betrayal of the United States that gave Turkey the green light. It is the EU's flatness that is perceived as being okay to continue. Turkey has become our border police. The fact that the government, or rather the authority, removed arms exports to Turkey yesterday was a good thing, albeit somewhat late. Now is the time to move on to more vigorous measures. Not a penny, not a euro, from the EU budget to the Turkish state! It is time to impose economic sanctions. Mr President, I would like to Today, the Riksdag decides on an increase in the retirement age. The Social Democrats have agreed with the right-wing parties that the retirement age should be increased. The Left Party will vote against the motion. For many, that's a harsh message. The question is whether you can do it. Many of those who have worked nights, many of those who have worked outdoors all year round and many of those who have worked in the care of the elderly know that it will be tough to get by so that you get a reasonable pension. It is said that the argument is that we live longer. Yeah, it's a lot of people. But the fact is that low-skilled women in Sweden do not increase their average life expectancy. For them, this only means more work and lower pensions. There are solutions. It is possible to change the rules on sickness benefit so that those who are actually worn out of their work can leave, receive sickness benefit until the pension and then receive a proper pension. We have made such a proposal. No such thing is voted through today in Parliament. It's just an increased retirement age. We can't do that. Mr President, I would like to We have a new political situation in Sweden. The January agreement puts tax cuts for well-paid ahead of welfare. We see a wave of reductions planned around Sweden. Almost every municipality will save on school next year. The nurses are warning of a deterioration in the working situation in nursing homes. We see how the biggest budgetary effort goes to rich men in our big cities, regardless of what is said from this pulpit today. That is the reality of the January Agreement. It's your policy. But there is an alternative. We show in our draft budget that Sweden can afford it. Sweden can afford to invest in the municipalities so that they do not have to cut back. We can afford to increase the guarantee pension by SEK 1 000 per month. We can afford to start major training efforts that will enable us to manage well-being in the long term. We can afford to introduce high-cost protection in dental care. But we can only afford it if we have tax for carrying power. On the other side of the political scale we see a new political bloc emerging: i.e. blue brown. Of course, both Ebba Busch Thor and Ulf Kristersson know that the Swedish Democrats are a racist party, but they can't say that anymore. They can't pronounce those words anymore, because they will build their future power on that particular party. Then you cannot tell the truth as it actually is, but instead you adapt. What we are seeing now is a sad story that we have seen in many other European countries where conservative parties gradually adapt to xenophobia. That is what we see – the rhetoric and the proposals. If you want to understand the relationship between the Moderates and the Christian Democrats on the one hand and the Swedish Democrats on the other hand, the stories about Pelle Svanslös is a good guide. It is the relationship between the cat Måns, i.e. Jimmie Åkesson, and Bill and Bull, i.e. Ebba Busch Thor and Ulf Kristersson. It won't take long until Bill and Bull repeat what the cat Måns has said in the debate.
i-0fa63402d782d892-61	But there is an alternative. It is possible to conduct a policy that can cope with welfare. It is possible to conduct a policy that creates equal Sweden. It is possible to have a policy that takes responsibility for the climate issue with the seriousness that it deserves. It's left-wing politics.
i-0fa63402d782d892-62	Mr President, I would like to I have already put on record on an earlier occasion that I see myself as Trisse and no one else in the Pelle Svanslös stories. It is possible to find that record if Jonas Sjöstedt has forgotten it. In the situation we are in now, we all need to ask ourselves the question: What does Sweden need? That is the question that should guide all political parties. But when you look at the government's draft budget, you see the final result of a negotiation based on the question: what do four January parties need to agree? It is therefore no wonder that the recent political debate has been full of self-contradictory. We are likely to hear more examples of this today. We will probably hear the four parties – we have in part already begun to hear this – who have jointly drawn up a budget also dissociating themselves from parts of that budget as if it were not their joint work. We heard precisely the Left Party, which allowed these parties to rise to power, roaring and barking as if it were an opposition party, even though in reality it is a support party and has the power to remove this government at any time. We will hear a Prime Minister who does not want to know the most expensive reform in his own state budget, and we will hear talk about the need for more broad cooperation, while the relationship of the January parties is already creaking around migration, high-speed trains and justice policy. The way in which our country is governed today makes Sweden weaker. The January Agreement is the result of positioning and political games. The result is a policy that allows the major social problems to grow while prestige projects eat up the energy of reform and the space for reform. This is despite the fact that crime such as personal robbery, assault and threats continues to increase, despite the fact that housing offences have never been as many as today and that one in three young women suffered sexual offences last year. Despite all this, the January parties are funding the police, the courts and the prosecution. Although 140 000 people have been waiting illegally for a long time to receive the care they need, despite the record that the care queues broke several times over this year and despite the fact that the quality of care depends on which region they happen to live in, the January parties refer to the regions' responsibility to avoid acknowledging that they lacked ideas for how Sweden should receive good care in time throughout the country. Although the Ministry of Finance is talking about a retirement home shortage equivalent to 26 000 places in 2026, no one can say that they did not know that the proportion of elderly people would increase and although everyone can hear help calls from the municipalities, the January parties instead choose to give priority to a new version of free years, building subsidies and free entry into state museums. Mr President, I would like to You cannot be an opposition and support party at the same time. You cannot call yourself Prime Minister and not take responsibility for the entire budget. Sweden deserves a government that agrees to crack gang crime in real life, which understands that county councils are an obstacle to cutting care queues and providing people with care on time and that understands the importance of prioritization in the treasury in order to be able to trust that welfare is there the day you need it. Therefore, our goal, which we are working tirelessly towards, is a new government by 2022.
i-0fa63402d782d892-70	Mr President, I would like to First of all, we have to say that unity is important when we condemn Turkish aggression in northern Syria. We in this House must do everything we can to support the Kurdish people during the murder that we are now going to see happening. Mr President, I would like to Liberals believe in knowledge and education. This is how people become free and Sweden can become the land of opportunity for all. That's the only way people with hard work can realize their life dreams. There were probably many of us who put the coffee in their throats when the National Board of Education proposed to delete antiquity in the new curriculum for history. After the Liberals and others defended the students' right to know about the birth of our democracy, they backed up. That's good. We need more and no less amassing knowledge of our history. For example, we can look back on the journey our own country has made when we now seriously switch from fossil to fossil-free five to twelve. The challenges are great but quite possible to overcome. For centuries Sweden was a poor agricultural country. But with free enterprise, democracy, social reform and gender equality, we developed into a leading industrial and welfare country in just a few generations. I myself have extremely vital relatives whose own parents were in practice sold to the lowest bidder or had to leave home in their 14s because there was no food on the table. It is then that with liberal reforms we can tackle today's major social problems. And it is thanks to the efforts of the Swedish people who build the welfare and support our society: the nurse who forms the first line at the emergency department, the teacher who tries to see every child in the classroom, the entrepreneur who through toil and diligence creates the foundation for all the welfare and the police who do their utmost to protect us. I am also talking about all those who struggle with their everyday lives, who raise their children, who sell sausages to the football club on the weekend and who call their year-long parents. Thank you for lifting Sweden! There is nothing that threatens people's freedom as much as crime. It is therefore a good thing that we are widely agreed to greatly increase resources for the judiciary. Crime can strike blindly but does so mainly with unpleasantly strong social precision. Anyone who struggles most in everyday life, lives crowded and lacks self-sufficiency is the one who most often suffers from crime. For us Liberals, the net contribution of at least 10 000 new police workers in the coming years was absolutely crucial for the government to take office at all. Restoring the rule of law is a fundamental ideological task for us liberals. There has never been more real money invested in Swedish justice than in the state budget that is on the table of the Riksdag. In Sweden of opportunity, everyone should be able to feel safe. Mr President, I would like to There are schools in our country where more than every other student can't pass elementary school. The consequences are, of course, devastating. In the January agreement we have a battery of liberal reforms in the field of school that will become a reality: grades from grade 4, order and order, increased knowledge focus and reform of teacher education. We also strengthen the number of teaching assistants so that teachers can focus on teaching. We continue to push forward on the important issues of integration. Liberals have been working for a language requirement for citizenship for almost 20 years, and we are pleased that more parties have finally sobered up on this issue. We continue the fight for those who are victims of honor-related violence. In Sweden it should be clear that here people make their own life choices. That's what we call freedom. Mr President, I would like to There is now a series of liberal reforms on Parliament's table. It is about reducing taxes on work and education. This is happening at the same time as we improve the economy of the most vulnerable pensioners. We also take further steps in the green transition, we take the long-term challenges of healthcare seriously and we recreate the Swedish defence. We are now taking important steps for people to have more freedom and for Sweden to be the country of opportunity for all in the future. However, there are still unresolved societal problems. These will address unsentimentally and constructively the Liberals throughout their term of office. Because although much is done, there is more to be done.
i-0fa63402d782d892-82	Mr President, I would like to When you have your first child, everything changes. Suddenly, even your own needs are no longer the most important ones, but the child's. You look at the future in a new way. It is no longer just my future; I want my children to feel good and to be protected from all evil. Mr President, I would like to Three weeks ago, 6 million children worldwide demonstrated for their future. They asked world leaders: How dare you take the future away from us? They have every right to ask that. We are the first generation to know the disastrous consequences of global warming. We are also the last generation to do something about it. It's as simple as that. The entire scientific community of the world has delivered the report that I am now presenting to the Members of this House, the Intergovernmental Conference's 1.5-degree report. Here it is black and white that if we do not significantly reduce emissions from oil, coal and gas in the next ten years, we are at risk of irreversible changes on this planet. Then not only glaciers and polar bears, but also people, cities, food production and water supply are threatened. Despite this solid scientific evidence, several large parties in this House are not only cutting down on Sweden's climate investments in their budgets. The Moderates and the Swedish Democrats go even further and make a historically large tax cut of over SEK 7 billion per year on petrol and diesel. 7 billion is an enormous amount of money that could be spent all over the country for elderly care, schools or climate investments where everyone can participate, instead of promoting urban motorism and oil companies. Let me ask Greta Thunberg's question to you: how dare you? We live in a very troubled world. Syria has been invaded. Democracies are being dismantled. Women's rights are being questioned. Strong economic and political interests are fighting against the world leaving oil dependence. In this situation, a country like Sweden is needed, which stands up and shows another way. I think a lot of people agree with that. Strangely enough, however, many in this House feel that it does not matter if Sweden takes precedence over and reduces its emissions because other countries increase theirs. If you say so, do you also think it is unimportant that Sweden stands up for women's rights because other countries do not? Do you think it is unfair for Sweden and our industry that we have statutory parental leave and freedom for trade unions because other countries do not have it? Is it unfair that we have waste sorting and that we have free elections to the Swedish Parliament every four years because other countries do not have it? I'm just wondering. Mr President, I would like to Right now, children, young people, women, war - tired and freedom - hungry people all over the world yearn for leadership. They long for moral leadership, to grasp the problems, to stop building walls, and to work together to do the right thing. That leadership currently stands for a small country like Sweden. Our feminist foreign policy is spreading. Our important aid makes a difference. Our climate policy is highlighted by international environmental organisations as world leaders. A few weeks ago at the UN, Sweden presented to the whole world how we work to convert the heavy industry to fossil freedom. Right now we are working with India, South Korea and other countries to spread the good example. I would really like all the parties in Parliament to join in our important work on climate change instead of reducing Sweden's role at this historic time. It is not taking responsibility for the future or showing concern for our children and grandchildren. Instead, we can show them the way to the fossil-free welfare society. And we will.
i-0fa63402d782d892-92	Mr President, I would like to It can be reminded of what the situation was like a year ago. In the autumn of 2018, many doubted whether Sweden would have a government at all. Even more were uncertain about what such a person might look like. Block politics had reached the end of the road. Positions were locked. The trenches were deep. But to take Sweden forward needed more cooperation and less conflict. When the options were then formed in January, there were two options. One was the Moderates' offer to Christian Democrats, center parties and liberals, which had led to a weak right-wing government in the hands of the Swedish Democrats. The second option was cooperation within the January Agreement, which was based on the effective resolution of societal problems. I think that is exactly what the Swedish people expect. The most important thing is not who has the hardest lines and takes the rhetorical points in a debate without us being able to put them aside and negotiate. We can come up with the best compromises for Sweden. That is why I am proud of the January Agreement. After months of lockdown, four parties took responsibility across old block borders and laid the foundations for cooperation and long-termism. Now we have an agreement that stipulates that resources for the municipalities should continue to be provided. It includes higher pensions, sensible reforms on better education, better health care and clearer requirements for faster integration. With it we also exert ourselves with the power of honour violence and oppression. Is it tough to compromise? Yeah. Does it cost you? Yeah. Is it worth it? Yes, because it makes life better for ordinary people. It is always worth more than empty words and political games.
i-0fa63402d782d892-96	Mr President, I would like to As we can read in the newspaper every day, unemployment is increasing. More people are now long-term unemployed than when the government took office. Six years ago, Stefan Löfven set a target for Europe's lowest unemployment in 2020. 2020 will start in about two months. Sweden now has the fourth highest unemployment rate in the EU. This is an enormous failure. My question is this: what reform in your January agreement would achieve the objective of reducing unemployment if the target had still been there, Stefan Löfven?
i-0fa63402d782d892-98	Mr President, I would like to Since the government took office in autumn 2014, approximately 350 000 more people are going to work. 100 000 of them are in Swedish welfare. We now have more hours worked than ever. Unemployment is lower than when we took office. What has happened in the Swedish labour market is that more and more people want to enter the labour market and be at its disposal. This is a good thing. This is not the case in other countries. Those who Ulf Kristersson now thinks it is important to compare with have much lower labour force participation among women. We have a higher participation rate among women. It is now faster for those who come from other countries to enter the labour market. We have training and labour market policies. What should not be done is exactly what Kristersson is doing: removing labour market policy measures and educational opportunities so that people remain in unemployment and remain there ever longer. This is not a good medicine, Kristersson.
i-0fa63402d782d892-101	Mr President, I would like to I didn't realize the government's goal was for a boom to lead to more jobs. I did not understand that the government's objective was to increase labour supply so that we can make it more visible if people do not get a job anyway. This was not the goal. The goal was Europe's lowest unemployment rate. This goal was abandoned when we had the fourth highest. I ask the question again: exactly what reform in the January agreement reduces unemployment so that the target could have been achieved if you had dared to keep the target, Stefan Löfven?
i-0fa63402d782d892-103	Mr President, I would like to The goal of the lowest unemployment rate was a steering year. But we also said that it is very important that there are more hours worked, that employment is higher and that more people go to work. That's exactly what happened. It happened because we invest more in welfare. In Swedish welfare, i.e. in schools and health care, there are now 100,000 more employees. We have major challenges in healthcare, and there we need to do more. We make sure that people can change according to the Swedish model. When you lose your job, you should have the right to receive an education or an action to get to work. That's exactly where the Moderates are now hitting with their double shot. You will deny people educational opportunities to get back into work. With moderate policies, more and more people will be excluded from the labour market. It is sad for them, but it is just as sad for Sweden's municipalities who will see that the gender of the social offices is growing and also have less and less opportunities for well-being. This is the moderate double shot. Keep Sweden from it!
i-0fa63402d782d892-106	Mr President, I would like to The government, with the support of the other left-wing liberal parties in this House, has now presented its first real budget. You take away the defense tax. One introduces something similar to the old free year. It adds even more billions to ineffective integration policies and fake jobs. At the same time, we see, Mr President, that very many municipalities, not to say everyone, are at risk of major deficits that they need to parry with either tax increases or deterioration in welfare. What the government has done is to shift the costs of the irresponsible migration policy from the state to the municipalities, which now sees the effects of this policy. I have to ask, Mr President, why the government is making such a bad priority.
i-0fa63402d782d892-109	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is a matter of keeping facts on the table. The Swedish Democrats proposed that the military tax be removed in order to achieve cooperation with Moderates and Christian Democrats. Oscar Sjöstedt wrote just this about the defense tax. Once again, Åkesson is shaking his head. That is exactly what this is all about. The Swedish Democrats were also against welfare money. What we wanted to send to the municipalities was the Swedish Democrats against. Now they say they want to send a lot of money to the municipalities. It was not long ago that they would reduce the space to give to municipalities by maintaining the 1% surplus target. Sometimes they are in favour of the removal of the defense tax, and sometimes they are against it. Sometimes they are in favour of a high surplus target, and now they are going to remove it. The Swedish Democrats are a wobbling party and nothing to hold in hand.
i-0fa63402d782d892-112	Mr President, I would like to One can really question the value of having debates of this kind in this House when the Prime Minister is, firstly, lying. It's not the first time, he basically does it every time. Second, he pretends to do something he really wants. To remain in power above all else is the parade of the Social Democrats. I do not think there was a single debate, a single speech or a single speech throughout the last parliamentary term and throughout the electoral movement, when Stefan Löfven did not accuse the so-called right-wing parties of wanting to lower the tax for the very richest in society. The only one who has now done this is Stefan Löfven and his left-wing liberal majority in this House. At the same time, he says I belong to a wobbling party. It is absolutely shameless, Mr President. Let me ask the question again: why does the government choose to prioritise these tax cuts and more than ordinary people and welfare? That's a legitimate question.
i-0fa63402d782d892-115	Mr President, I would like to In January, there were two political options, and both would remove the defence tax, including those that the Swedish Democrats wanted to join with Moderates and Christian Democrats. These are the facts. The Swedish Democrats have changed their position as often as others change their shirts. They reach up their finger in the air and wonder which way it blows. But one direction they keep very straight, and it's the same as the Moderates hold. There will be less investment in education. They want fewer people who have come from other countries to get into work. They want to put them in line for the Social Services office. If they do not receive any education or language training, which the Swedish Democrats want to remove, these people will be in line for the Social Services Office. It would be a misery for them, but it is also a poor use of human resources. This is Sweden's democratic policy, and that would be bad for Sweden.
i-0fa63402d782d892-118	Mr President, I would like to In the January agreement you can read, among other things, the following: a person's freedom of choice is a central part of the Swedish welfare model. – – – The Government will not pursue or further pursue proposals for a profit ban or other proposals aimed at imposing profit restrictions on private actors in the welfare sector. High quality requirements should be governing. ..................................................... Several leading Social Democratic ministers, however, speak in a completely different direction. Among other things, Minister Shekarabi wrote in mid-September that the freedom of establishment of free schools must be abolished and that we must put an end to the market elements of our school system. At the end of August, the Government of Ekström, the minister responsible for the matter, attacked independent school actors and called the profits provocative. How does the Prime Minister see that responsible ministers in the government express themselves in this way, completely contrary to what we have agreed and what they are set to do?
i-0fa63402d782d892-121	Mr President, I would like to The whole government will implement the January agreement and exactly what it says. We are very good at this cooperation. I think the job is started in 90% of all points included in the January agreement. Some of them are also quite close to the end. We will make sure to deliver the January agreement. However, this does not prevent us from discussing what we are seeing. Is it perfect in the school world today? No, I don't think so either. We agree to tighten up so that there is no abuse of the right to start a school. It must be people who can run a school that will. You have to take responsibility for the schools. Today, unfortunately, we have a situation where we have too much of a grade inflation in Swedish schools. Some of this is likely because schools want to compete with each other and give high grades. We must see the problems and attack them. The January Agreement shall be delivered.
i-0fa63402d782d892-124	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, that's it. There should be high quality requirements and much more stringent supervision. Nor should schools that do not meet the requirements be allowed to continue, regardless of their principal. But that wasn't my question. My question was also not about the ability of social democratic party functionaries to form opinions. This is the responsible minister of government. They have been entrusted with the implementation of a policy on these issues. It is clear in the January agreement that proposals for a ban on profits and so on will not be pursued or continued. Even S-marked ministers, especially those responsible, must put their foot down and choose how they express themselves. Or did they do what the Prime Minister himself did last week... put on the partisan hat? The reason for my question is that this creates uncertainty. How should the public know whether a responsible minister expresses his or her highly personal opinion or expresses an opinion about something that the Swedish parliament has been entrusted with?
i-0fa63402d782d892-128	Mr President, I would like to Annie Lööf knows very well that the work that I described is in full swing and will be delivered as stated in the agreement. Contracts are made to be kept. I've written a number of agreements in my life. I've always kept a deal and I'm going to keep doing it. I think Annie Lööf also sometimes wears the partisan hat. Annie Lööf may express things that may not be in the January agreement. It is quite possible to do so and to have an opinion. But the ministers who are part of the government I lead have a task, and that is to ensure that the January agreement is delivered. They do, and Annie Lööf knows that.
i-0fa63402d782d892-130	Mr President and Mr Löfven, the President-in-Office of the Council. Later this afternoon, the Social Democrats in this House, together with the right-wing parties, will vote through an increased retirement age in Sweden. It's easy to see who's gonna lose out on it. They're the ones who don't even have the energy to work to the age of rich today. They're the ones who're worn out. It is those who have had heavy jobs, not least many women who work in Swedish welfare. Many of them are probably thinking about what this will be like for them, how the pension will be the day you can take it out. Furthermore, nothing is being done to improve sickness benefit so that they would have the chance to benefit from it better until they retire. My question to the Prime Minister is: What is Stefan Lövven's message to those who cannot cope, to those who have worn themselves out on construction and retirement homes and who will now lose out on the decision that your party is making this afternoon?
i-0fa63402d782d892-132	Mr President, I would like to Today, the Riksdag takes exactly the decision that Sjöstedt expressed, but also two other decisions: the guarantee pension should be increased, and the ceiling of the housing supplement should be increased. This is possible thanks to the January agreement. We have to be honest in front of people. It is not possible to pretend that the fact that we are alive no longer affects pension if you do nothing else. In the long term, we want to increase the contribution, because the contribution must be increased in the pension system. In the short term, it won't help. In the short term, we now see people getting worse and worse pensions. Then it is this measure that must be put into effect in order for us to be able to say that the pension is decent. Then I agree with Jonas Sjöstedt. We need to look very much at working conditions and working conditions, so that people can have a full working life and get a good pension. That work must continue.
i-0fa63402d782d892-135	Mr President, I would like to The improvements that are being made to pensioners are very modest in the government's budget. The big money goes to perfectly healthy well-paid men in our big cities with the removed military tax. Increasing the pension contribution is a good thing. We also think that this should be done. But that's not happening. This has been talked about for a long time, but nothing has happened. What happens is that you have to work more years before you can retire. There is a solution for those who do not have the energy to change the rules on sickness benefits so that they can be obtained without being tested against the whole labour market. It would be reasonable if 62-year-olds were not assessed as 25-year-olds. They could then receive sickness benefit until retirement and then receive a reasonable pension. Now they're paying the price. Why are you leaving these people in the lurch, Stefan Löfven? Why have you not thought of those who are worn out and are actually not able to cope, now that the retirement age is to be raised?
i-0fa63402d782d892-138	Mr President, I would like to No one should be left in the lurch. Here it is important to do both. We are going to make pensions bearable, and we will have to work longer over time. Of course, we will also have a health insurance system that works so that the person who becomes ill will have a safe compensation, have a way back, will get help to get back to work as quickly as possible and will continue to earn a living and earn pension money. This should of course be correlated with a sickness benefit that works. That's the agency's mission. We changed management at the agency to make sure this is in place better. At that time Jonas Sjöstedt was very worried that we changed the management. We'll make sure no one is left in the lurch. You should have a good pension, and you should be able to work the whole working life.
i-0fa63402d782d892-141	I would particularly like to welcome all of you sitting in the gallery. I think it is fantastic that we have in principle completely packed stands and that we have even had to take part of the press's gallery because so many people want to listen to this debate. Welcome!
i-0fa63402d782d892-142	Mr President, I would like to Health care is the voters' most important issue. It affects us all, and we all depend on it. Therefore, many are also worried and upset now that health care is unable to deliver as one has the right to expect. This summer, new bleak queue records were set. In August, the last month reported, 137,956 people had been waiting illegally for more than 90 days to receive the care they are entitled to. It is almost a doubling compared to August 2014, the last year we had a Christian Democratic Minister for Health. Mr President, I would like to My question to Stefan Löfven is therefore: Given the situation in Swedish healthcare, can Stefan Löfven mention any successful healthcare reform from his government in the last five years?
i-0fa63402d782d892-145	Mr President, I would like to Queues in healthcare are a major problem that exists throughout our country. Among the regions where they grow the most are Stockholm, where the Christian Democrats have been in charge for quite a long time. The islands are growing in Västra Götaland and Halland. They are also growing in Social Democratically governed county councils. This is a problem that we must tackle together. That is why we have replenished our resources for both municipalities, county councils and regions throughout this term of office. We intend to continue to do so during the next parliamentary term. When Ebba Busch Thor discussed this issue in Sunday's Agenda debate, she said: that there is a shortage of staff is no reason. The fact that Ebba Busch Thor says that worries me, and I am very surprised. I want to hire more staff in Swedish health care. Why doesn't Ebba Busch Thor want that?
i-0fa63402d782d892-147	Mr President, I would like to In the debate on Sunday, I asked the same question: can Stefan Löfven mention a health reform that has made a difference over these five years? I was told that the Prime Minister had met two new nurses in Gällivare. But additional employees are not a reform. There must be more employees as the population grows. We spend much more than the January parties do on welfare. In the coming years, we are spending 30 billion more on welfare and security. We will ensure that there will be more employees. The Prime Minister and the January parties continue to defend an out-of-date healthcare organisation that prevents the hijacking of care queues. I'm not interested in defending a single line of care in a single county council. That's the difference. We're putting people first. Name a health reform that made a difference!
i-0fa63402d782d892-150	Mr President, I would like to I can name one. The bourgeois government before us had begun a good thing, which we continued with. These were the standardised medical procedures for cancer patients. That's a good thing. It has shortened the queue time for many cancer patients. There we have a good common understanding. I think we can stick to it and continue to work together, because we will have to do so. The Christian Democrats wanted another organisation. They wanted to nationalize the medical system. They had eight years in government. This didn't happen. I don't think that's good either. We're going to have a care that's as close to people as possible. That is why we are now continuing within the framework of the January agreement with a primary care reform that allows more care to be provided at health centres and health centres. We're going to have regular medical contact. You as a patient should be given a contract, so that you know what will happen not only next treatment, but also next and next. It is about bringing more resources closer to people and about better care. That's how we're gonna deal with it.
i-0fa63402d782d892-153	Mr President, I would like to I want to relate to this with emergency preparedness. I am not going to ask about debacle with our emergency preparedness when medical supplies run out in our regions. There's more to do here. I assume that the government with the minister responsible will return to Parliament as soon as possible with an explanation of how this should not be repeated. I'm talking about other crises. We have the terrible humanitarian crisis in northern Syria. As I said, our thoughts go to the people who are now fleeing and suffering. But this can also affect Sweden here and now. We know that there have been many people from Sweden to the so-called caliphate before it was crushed. Some have come back. People are still in these camps. The risk that they can quickly return to Sweden has now clearly increased.
i-0fa63402d782d892-156	Mr President, I would like to We share concerns about terrorism. I am pleased that we have a broad agreement on attacking terrorism – it also applies to those who might sympathise with it and who actually live here. That is why we have tightened the penalties and legislation for accepting education, financing and making terrorist trips. We will later decide to extend this so that relations with terrorism will also become illegal. Those who have travelled down to this area have travelled against the advice of the authorities. In fact, they've warned against it. If you've travelled there, you won't get consular help, but you'll be there. Of course, the situation for children is very, very difficult. It's a complex situation. The government works every day to see what can be done for the children. It is very complex, but we have no intention of bringing home any adults who have once joined terrorism. Should they still get across the border here, it's the task of the Security Service to handle it.
i-0fa63402d782d892-159	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The Liberal view is that we should probably already be making efforts to prepare ourselves for these people to come. It is very good if the National Operations Department of the Swedish Police, which works with war crimes, gets a clear directive on how to get involved. Maybe you should double the number of people involved in investigating these crimes. This applies to people who have been in this area and who have in one way or another collaborated or participated in this. Whether it is punishable or not today, it needs to be investigated very carefully. Liberals believe that we should ensure that these people are met by police when they arrive. We also think it is important to move the unit that works long-term and active, that is, the Centre against violent extremism, from the Swedish Crime Prevention Council to the Swedish police so that the police can better and more effectively meet the needs that exist when these people arrive. Prevention is one thing, but now there is a great risk that they will soon be standing here. We must face them properly with the Swedish rule of law.
i-0fa63402d782d892-162	Mr President, I would like to We fully share the view that they should meet. No adult will be helped to come home. They went there on their own. Then they'll have to take that responsibility. If they still cross the border, it's the task of the Security Service to handle it. In fact, the police have received more resources than they required. They will have even more resources – 2.4 billion more next year. That's good. It's the same with the Secret Service. They know their task, and of course they tell us and outwardly that this is their task. They'll handle it. We should not risk safety in Sweden. I am very, very hard and determined against terrorism.
i-0fa63402d782d892-163	Mr President, I would like to The alarm reports are now replacing each other. There is insufficient access to electricity. Billionaire investments have stopped in Skåne. Alarm comes from Stockholm, Gothenburg and Mälardalen. But the Prime Minister claims that there is no shortage of electricity. Either municipalities and companies see ghosts or Stefan Löfven is simply wrong. Imagine a landlord who says that the apartment can be heated to 37 degrees in summer and 3 degrees in winter, with a pleasant average temperature over the year of 20 degrees. It is as attractive as a country that says: For the full year we can produce more electricity than is used, although we cannot do it when it is cold or where it is needed. The serious discussion on the shortage of electricity is therefore not about the overall generation of electricity per full year, but about the fact that the overall energy policy means that electricity is no longer available when you need it. There are problems with long-distance electricity transmission. Therefore, electricity generation must be distributed throughout the country. In the north, we have hydropower. To date, production in the southern parts of the country has been based mainly on nuclear power and combined heat and power. The removal of both nuclear power and cogeneration, which is exactly what the government is now doing, creates imbalances in the energy system. Therefore, both power and capacity are needed if electricity is to be supplied in the socket. The fact that Sweden covers the overall need for power over the year says nothing about how well the effect can be distributed. Sweden must therefore build new electricity grids. But the new networks will meet the increased need for pure Swedish electricity, not compensate for the electricity crisis that this government has created with its own energy policy.
i-0fa63402d782d892-168	Mr President, I would like to It is true that employment is high and that Swedish finances are strong. But Sweden is also affected by a slowdown that we now see in the economy. That is why we have turned deficits into surpluses. We have invested heavily in welfare. We've paid off on the government debt. That is why we are also ensuring that state aid for short-term work is strengthened. However, the Moderates are now proposing greatly reduced opportunities for the unemployed to get back to work. In addition, it is suggested that sick people should be thrown out of health insurance. Then we want another 10 billion cutbacks on government agencies – unclear which ones. It is a policy that leads to people who are out of work or who are sick getting even tougher. They are forced to get in line with the municipality's social welfare office, and the municipality in turn will have to cut welfare to afford increased social benefits. In what way does Ulf Kristersson believe that it helps to equip Sweden for harsher times?
i-0fa63402d782d892-171	Mr President, I would like to I think that the Prime Minister gave a fairly good description of government policy: increasing social assistance, increasing unemployment and a lack of ability to face recession. That is exactly what you are doing right now. Ask the municipalities of the country! Social security benefits increase when the state hands over the bill for people who have had two years of start-up benefits and who have not come to work – it is quite clear. Today, the supply of benefits is the major problem in terms of people entering the labour market. If you had cared about this issue, you would have tightened the contributions. You had ensured that people would always have incentives to go to work, and you had reduced the tax on people with low incomes. It's about always paying better to work than to have a grant. It is a fairer description of our economic policy.
i-0fa63402d782d892-173	Mr President, I would like to The number of people who are now dependent in our government period on our benefit systems has not been so low since 1981, I think. The proportion of people who received social assistance, or income support, during Kristersson's time as Minister of Foreign Insurance increased dramatically. That's the difference between my policy and that of his. Kristersson does not want to answer the question. When people who are unemployed do not receive training or a labour market policy measure to come back, when people who are sick are to be thrown out of health insurance with moderate policies, what makes you think they are coming to work? What makes Ulf Kristersson think that the business community wants to hire someone who does not have the right education? Are they going into the welfare sector without proper education? They will end up in the queues of the municipalities to the social welfare offices. That is moderate politics.
i-0fa63402d782d892-176	Mr President, I would like to I know Swedish social security quite well. I inherited the task from a party leader called Göran Persson. He had identified a major problem, namely that we had twice as many long-term sick people as we should have. At that time, from right to left, we agreed that it is unreasonable to pre-retire people away from the labour market and to hide people in health insurance if they could work. We took that task very seriously. We reduced sick leave in our country. Now you're almost bragging that you want to increase it. The big problem here is that people end up in alienation. Today it looks different from last time. Today it is not people who are being wasted in early retirement, because we solved that problem. Today it is people who never enter the labour market. Those who do not speak well Swedish and those who do not have a long education end up in dependency, and you want them to remain there.
i-0fa63402d782d892-179	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a country with enormous opportunities but also with great challenges. To move forward in the next few years, therefore, there will be a need for more cooperation and responsibility, not less. There is a need to settle for stability and long-termness over time. Our parties and our country have a proud tradition of broad agreements in important areas such as migration, energy and also defence. The Moderates have meant a great deal for such solutions to come about, and that is a constructiveness that I am very happy about. Kristersson himself writes in a debate article in Svenska Dagbladet two weeks ago that I am therefore concerned when, in recent times, there has been more talk about both gang crime and the agreement on energy policy. It is also deeply opposed to the parliamentary inquiry into migration where in fact all parties in the Swedish Parliament sit. My question to Kristersson is therefore: Which areas does he see as important for cooperation across the block border? What does he put in the word
i-0fa63402d782d892-183	Mr President, I would like to I think that is a very reasonable question. I believe in conversations, and I believe in gathering – if it is gathering to action. So I do not believe in coffee ropes that are about us to come together so as not to come up with solutions that can deal with the problems we have. This is a crucial difference, because we also have a bad tradition in Sweden: to gather to endless coffee ropes where the main task is to gather rather than solve the problems themselves. That is why I am concerned about gang talks starting with the fact that we should first invite seven of Parliament's eight parties, thus devaluing the whole issue of gang crime into a politically devious game, and then landing in not making much effort. No calls or agreements are required for that. I am concerned about an energy agreement that solves problems that we have had but which do not solve the problems we are seeing now is quite obvious. That would make a conversation a self-worth. Democracy deserves action, not just collection.
i-0fa63402d782d892-186	Mr President, I would like to I agree with a lot of what Ulf Kristersson says, that action is needed rather than a collection. But in order to achieve action, it actually requires gathering. Through decades we have made many broad, cross-block deals. Some coffee has been drunk, but we have reached agreements where compromises and settlements have been reached. It is a matter of producing content, which is crucial. It is equally important to implement and to have sufficient mandates for implementation, but political leadership must also persevere and persevere. Cooperation requires compromises, otherwise one rarely reaches a solution with more parties than one's own. My question therefore remains: if one is now prepared for all these large, broad areas and to continue negotiating and moving forward, which areas are one prepared to cooperate and compromise with across the block line in order for Sweden to continue to have a tradition of stability and long-termism?
i-0fa63402d782d892-189	Mr President, I would like to Just so I'm not misunderstood, I'm not against the big deals, if they solve the problems. That's the thing. If they solve the problems we see in front of us, they're great. We have two fundamental examples. Take the major agreements of the 1990s crisis that required several different parties to adapt and change policies and create long-term prospects and make major structural reforms, as economists say. They were fundamentally important. Take the pension agreement, where several parties had to change old perceptions to create long-term stability in systems that were far from perfect but were good for Sweden. It was fundamentally important. Take the migration talks that are now taking place, where the only concrete order from the government is for us to increase immigration with a completely new basis of protection. It does not provide the conditions for a long-term agreement on the migration policy that I want to see.
i-0fa63402d782d892-193	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Kristersson! It is one of NATO's most important countries that is now attacking northern Syria. Turkey has NATO's second largest military power. They're running civilians. There are already very troubling pictures of actual war crimes involving the execution of civilians on the streets of northern Syria. In practice, the most powerful NATO country in the United States gave the green light to this assault on those who have fought the Islamic State. The Moderates belong to those parties that would like to join the same military alliance as Turkey and the United States, that is to say NATO. Why is it so urgent for the Moderates that Sweden will become part of the same military alliance as Erdo中an and Trump?
i-0fa63402d782d892-195	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to condemning Turkey's actions, we are in agreement in Sweden, we are in agreement in the European Union, and we have also taken consequence decisions with regard to Turkey. It is in every way reprehensible policy. This is a completely different matter from how Sweden guarantees our military capabilities in the long term. We have been saying for a very long time that we will not survive alone in the event of conflict in our part of the world. Instead, this government opts for unilateral cooperation with the United States alone in order to resolve this. We think that's the wrong way to go. We believe that the reciprocity that lies in NATO cooperation is much more important. In practice, Sweden cooperates with NATO, but we want to do it a little bit without taking the step fully. We believe that Sweden needs friends and allies for long-term security, and we believe that NATO is the organisation that remains to create that security.
i-0fa63402d782d892-199	Mr President, I would like to Of course, what NATO countries are doing cannot be distinguished from what NATO is doing. NATO is made up of the countries. It is not possible to distinguish the policy of NATO leaders from the military alliance that they feel they want to join. There is only one NATO, and that is the real one, in reality existing NATO. That is what we are discussing, and that is what we are taking a position on. At least the Moderates have used to point out in the past that this is a community of values. These are countries with which we have a relationship. That is where we belong, that is, in NATO. But do we? In what way does Sweden have a community of values with Erdo中an's Turkey today? It must nevertheless be possible to answer this question if it is for the sake of a community of values that one should enter into a military alliance.
i-0fa63402d782d892-202	Mr President, I would like to So now it is not NATO that is committing abuse, but Turkey that is pursuing bad policies in every way. There's an important difference. As far as Turkey is concerned, they are now making sure that the historic hopes that Turkey will one day qualify as a full member of the European Union are dashed. Turkey is condemned around the world. What we are saying is that it is better that Sweden is part of a joint association that guarantees each other's security than that Sweden should unilaterally trust the USA and instead of speaking plain text about our need for others to work individually with a single country. That is why NATO is a better ally than single NATO countries.
i-0fa63402d782d892-205	Mr President, I would like to There are over 60 million people on the run in our world. We Liberals share much of the analysis that the Moderates make – that it is difficult to help all people in Sweden. We also believe that we need to continue to have a tight migration policy compared to before and focus on the right to asylum. Having said that, it is important for us liberals to help people on the ground so that we make the world a better place to live. That is why we think that aid is a good idea. It has done much good and helped millions – perhaps billions – of people out of poverty in the long term. It has played a role. The Moderates have a party meeting this week. There is a proposal for substantial reductions. Do the Moderates believe that this helps in a complex world where we must help people on the ground? Does it contribute to better world development, or is it likely to deteriorate?
i-0fa63402d782d892-208	Mr President, I would like to I agree with most of what Johan Pehrson says except possibly the conclusion that there are severe cuts. What we have said is that we do not believe that we should have a single area of expenditure, as we say in parliamentary bureaucracy, which is beyond traditional control and assessment or strictly link it to just 1% of bnp or bni without evaluating how much money is going to go to exactly what each year. In five years, the aid has increased by SEK 13 billion. It's doubled, tripled, in 20 years. Today, therefore, it is twice as large as the allocation to the police. Is it a reasonable overall priority for Swedish public funds? We don't think so. We believe that we should use the same planning as for other long-term things such as research and infrastructure and establish a four-year plan for what we want to achieve with what resources. With our policy, we would still be the third largest contributor in the OECD, but we would not be the biggest. I think it is a wise use of tax revenue.
i-0fa63402d782d892-213	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Of course, the level cannot be the only determining factor. What we do in Sweden in our trade, our diplomacy and our migration policy also plays a role in how we – a fairly small country in the world – can affect world development. But for us Liberals, aid is important. We had an alliance government together for a number of years that was successful. Among other things, because it was successful, aid has increased. The better it goes for Sweden, the higher the level of aid. For us, it is a moral obligation. We look out over the world and think away... yes, in a previous line shift it was about coffee ropes and so on. The world is in many ways a terrible place, and we have a duty. That is why, as a Liberal, I think it is important and fun that the economic prize winners this year are people who focus on how to make aid more effective and make the world better, because it is a responsibility we have and an issue with which the Liberals are strongly associated and want to continue to pursue.
i-0fa63402d782d892-216	Mr President, I would like to I usually say something like this: Sweden as a rich country has a shared responsibility with others to help in a broken world. It is a responsibility that we take on, and we do so with pride. At the same time, we have full responsibility for how things go in Sweden. This is one of the many reasons why we must bear in mind that if people come to Sweden, integration must also work. We also need to think about how best we spend our tax money. I think that a little too often there are too many signs that, because of our eagerness to reach the 1% target, aid funds are not being used in the way our taxpayers are entitled to demand. That doesn't mean cheapness. It doesn't mean ignorance. It just means turning every penny around, even the money we want to benefit in poor parts of the world.
i-0fa63402d782d892-219	Mr President, I would like to I just want to start by mentioning that Sweden has never had as much electricity surplus as the first half of this year. We export electricity to Finland, for example, which is not finished with the nuclear power plant that was decided almost 20 years ago and which is more than twice as expensive as was originally planned. But I want to talk about something else. In 2017, Sweden's parliamentary parties signed and the Moderates agreed that we should be down on net zero emissions in 2045. It is an agreement that obliges, Ulf Kristersson. In the napkin budget last year, you slaughtered the environmental budget and abolished the airline tax. Now you go even further and want to reduce the tax on petrol by EUR 7 billion, by the way, as much as you cut aid. How, Ulf Kristersson, will you deliver on the Climate Act if you make it cheaper to release and benefit motorists in big cities and oil companies?
i-0fa63402d782d892-223	Mr President, I would like to Let me pick up the glove that Isabella Lövin threw first: the electricity surplus. It's great that we have a large electricity surplus, measured in six months nationally. Call Pågen and say: You have no problem – we have an electricity surplus! Call Ystad and say: You have no problem with your chemical production – we have an electricity surplus! Call all the companies that today cannot invest and say: If you just move elsewhere, we have no problem! I thought that Sweden was a country where you could expect the energy supply to work even if you are going to expand a business. If you are to digitise for environmental reasons and need large server halls, you need energy. If it is to be clean, production capacity is required. I cannot understand how one can be so frivolous that today it is Swedish companies and Swedish municipalities that are calling for a shortage of available electricity only because there is electricity surplus nationally and semi-annually.
i-0fa63402d782d892-227	Mr President, I would like to I notice that the Moderates applaud very much that the leader of the party did not mention in one word why you, as a party, are spending 7 billion on reducing petrol and diesel taxes when we are in the midst of a burning climate crisis. How do the Moderates intend to reduce emissions when the most effective means of doing so is the CO2 tax? The Institute of Economics and the Swedish National Audit Office and all the other efforts that you usually refer to when you talk about effective climate policy say that the carbon tax is the most important instrument. In addition, in your budget, you are removing the support that we want to give to assisted areas 1 and 2, to rural areas, to compensate for the needs of taking the car to work or football training and for all the special circumstances in rural areas. Instead, you are making a large investment of 7 billion, which primarily benefits the big cities and those who drive a car to work from Danderyd and Täby. Can you explain, Ulf Kristersson, how this is effective climate policy?
i-0fa63402d782d892-230	Mr President, I would like to Since I received three questions – about the energy supply, about the conversion and about the petrol tax – and had one minute to answer, I gave an answer to one of the questions. Let's talk conversion and gas tax! The first thing I want to talk about is that the conversion should work, so we should go from coal and oil to pure Swedish electricity. This requires that we produce pure Swedish electricity. That's why I'm a little obsessed with the idea not to phase out Swedish nuclear power and replace it with dirtier electricity because Sweden has the world's second cleanest electricity generation. The second is that I think that the climate change requires that all of Sweden is on the boat, even the people who live in places in Sweden where the car is indispensable for two who are going to work and who have several children. For them there is not the option to take the subway to the factory a few miles away, but the only option is car. They don't enjoy driving their car, they don't have any options. There'll be less money left for other things. The whole of Sweden is going on this trip, not just those who have their own subway.
i-0fa63402d782d892-234	Mr President, I would like to The very first words of today's debate came from the Prime Minister. He devoted them to talking about how many people go to work, and there are so many, according to the Prime Minister. And there are a lot of people in Sweden who go to work every day. Unfortunately, however, fewer people do so in relation to the population. Unemployment is rising again. Stefan Löfven and the left-wing liberal parties are keen to highlight all the good that they feel they have achieved. Everything is peace and joy, and everything is getting better. But why, Mr President, is this not true? Why isn't it getting better? You've had five years. Has the care queues become shorter? Has gang crime been broken? Do we have the EU's lowest unemployment rate? Reducing emissions? Is segregation reduced? Are People Safer? Have school results improved? To be honest, Mr President, the Stefan Lövven government has not actually succeeded in any of the things it has set out – absolutely nothing. A totally irresponsible policy has been pursued. Then the costs are shoveled over at the municipalities. It boasts of lowering public debt to historically low levels while not allowing municipalities to do the same, but increasing local government debt. Mr President, I would like to We need a new government.
i-0fa63402d782d892-239	Mr President, I would like to Knowledge results are increasing in the Swedish school – that's good. We have many challenges left, but we will continue along that path. On September 16, this year, a man fell from a roof and died. On September 25, a man fell into a pond and died, and on September 27, a man got a pole over him and died. People who have died at work never return home to their family or friends. Jimmie Åkesson sometimes wants to sound like he represents ordinary people. In reality, the Swedish Democrats always fail those who work. You want to abolish the regional safety ombudsmen and, in addition, undermine the safety ombudsmen in Swedish workplaces – precisely those who will stand up for people who work not to have to suffer accidents and deaths. With your policy, you risk the health of hundreds of thousands of people. Why are the Swedish Democrats against Swedish employees?
i-0fa63402d782d892-243	Mr President, I would like to Many noted the Social Democrats' rather absurd attack on the Swedish Democrats the other night, probably with the aim of moving the focus away from yet another of their own failures. It is claimed that we want to remove the safety representatives. What we are proposing, Mr President, is that the health and safety representatives in the workplace should be appointed by the employees, and that the union – not infrequently Stefan Lövven's close friends in LO – should no longer have the right to appoint the regional safety representatives, but that they should be transferred to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. I have to ask Stefan Löfven: Why should only social democrats be regional safety representatives? Does this benefit all workers?
i-0fa63402d782d892-246	Mr President, I would like to The question can be put back: can you not be a social democrat if you are a safety representative? The trade unions are made up of employees. It is the employees who enter their trade union organisation, and it is the trade union organisation that appoints its representatives. The 1 700 regional safety representatives that the Swedish Democrats want to remove make around 50 000 workplace visits every year. Now I am talking about small businesses, where there are no safety representatives. There, the Regional Safety Officers are making a huge effort to prevent accidents and prevent injuries. The Swedish Democrats will remove to put in some officials. These safety representatives, Jimmie Åkesson, know the risks at the workplace. They know what this is about because they themselves work in the same type of workplace. You want to remove them, and you're going to put in some officials. That's not good. Why do the Swedish Democrats oppose work environment management, which is so important?
i-0fa63402d782d892-250	Mr President, I would like to We do not oppose work environment work. We oppose the influence of the Social Democratic Party on people working around our country today. Stefan Löfven asked the question: Can you be a social democrat? Yes, of course you have to be. But is it possible today to be a Swedish democrat and regional safety representative? Is it possible to be a Christian Democrat and regional safety representative? No, you must not, because Stefan Lövven's close friends, not least in the LO-Associations, make sure that it is only partisan with the right party book that is appointed. I think it is wrong, because they primarily represent Stefan Löfven and the government, not those in the workplace. Therefore, I cannot see the slightest problem with this being transferred to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. We can raise skills, and we ensure that all employees at their respective workplaces are represented, not just those who have the right party book.
i-0fa63402d782d892-253	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats have recently talked about how they want to strengthen municipalities and protect welfare. There's nothing wrong with that-- I fully share that ambition. The problem arises when you combine this with the Swedish Democrats' migration policy. Åkesson's party wants to stop all asylum reception, pause all quota reception and speed up the return of those people who have been allowed to stay in Sweden for one reason or another. At the same time, we know that 80 000 nurses, nurses, doctors and other health workers will be required over the next five years to meet the challenge of welfare, which is already dependent on the work of foreign-born people. My question to Jimmie Åkesson is therefore very simple: Where will he, who claims to protect welfare, find these people if the Swedish Democrats at the same time make their own migration policy a reality?
i-0fa63402d782d892-257	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats' migration policy is based on common sense and responsibility, unlike, for example, the Center Party's migration policy, which is based on Sweden being an alleman's country where everyone can come. There could be 30 million immigrants and so on. I don't think so. I believe that it impairs Sweden and not least the possibility of maintaining welfare, which Annie Lööf holds so high. It is not, Mr President, primarily people with asylum immigration as their background or their relatives who will save welfare. The fact is – this is all agreed, and Annie Lööf should also understand it – that these as a group are burdening welfare today and will do so for a very long time to come. Ask center party councillors around the country or anyone who is responsible for welfare today. You are shoveling the costs of this to the municipalities, which are now being forced into tax increases, cuts or major deficits. It's not responsible politics.
i-0fa63402d782d892-260	Mr President, I would like to Now the Center Party is responsible for regulated immigration with a focus on both order and humanism, and we want to steer towards more legal ways. We in Sweden cannot differ significantly from other European countries. But the question remains: Where will Jimmie Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats find these 80 000 people who will work as nurses, nurses and doctors over the next five years to meet the needs that exist? At the same time, he wants to make a reality of his migration policy, which is aimed at stopping people from coming here and also sending home those who are already here. We know that the municipalities are facing major challenges. The Center Party has been fighting for higher general government subsidies for decades. We are also implementing it in the budget that is set. We have been involved in strengthening the finances of municipalities and will do so through a cost compensation system now at the turn of the year. But now there was another challenge that I was talking about, namely the supply of skills and staffing in welfare. Feel free to answer that! 80,000 people – where will Jimmie Åkesson find them?
i-0fa63402d782d892-263	Mr President, I would like to It is true that welfare has enormous challenges. It was also one of the major issues in the election movement a year ago: How are we going to cope with the supply of skills in welfare? There's no answer from the government. Rather, the government's response has been that we should continue to increase our population so that there are additional needs in welfare. We want to do exactly the opposite. If people have come to our country and have no reason to be here – if they do not have a reason for asylum or a need for protection – the activities of the Finnish Immigration Service must be aimed at ensuring that they can return to their home countries in an orderly and humane manner. We will create the conditions for that. Rather, it will reduce needs. What the government and Annie Lööf are doing is increasing the needs of welfare by further increasing immigration and having a complete lack of interest in people who should not or need to be here being able to return. It's bad politics.
i-0fa63402d782d892-266	Mr President, I would like to During this debate, Jimmie Åkesson has repeatedly pointed out how it is cut in the municipalities and how to remove things that are important for people in their everyday lives. That is quite right, but I would like to remind you, Jimmie Åkesson, that the budget that now affects the municipalities is the budget for this year that you voted through in Parliament. It is therefore the policy of the Swedish Democrats that is now breaking through, with cuts in care for the elderly, school and preschool around Sweden, and there is a direct responsibility on the part of those who voted for it, i.e. at Jimmie Åkesson. The Swedish Democrats are also a party that likes private companies to take advantage of the money that would have gone to the elderly and to schools. In Jimmie Åkesson's own municipality of residence Sölvesborg, working municipal care for the elderly is discontinued, while infamous Frösunda, who has been thrown out of several municipalities after neglect, will take over important parts of elderly care in Sölvesborg. Why is it so important for Jimmie Åkesson that money that would have gone to the elderly should go to private companies instead?
i-0fa63402d782d892-268	Mr President, I would like to Now I don't run in Sölvesborg. In Jonas Sjöstedt's world it may be that the man in the family rules over the woman, but that is not the case in my family.
i-0fa63402d782d892-269	I'll answer by asking a counter-question. Why is Jonas Sjöstedt so obsessed with who is carrying out the welfare mission? Why do you get hung up on this? Isn't it most important what and what quality you get out of each bet crown? It's a guide for me. If a municipality estimates that it is a private company that can do it better at the same or lower cost, I have no problem with it at all. This is what distinguishes an extreme left-wing party from a person who fundamentally believes in a market economy and that competition is something that develops activities, not destroys activities.
i-0fa63402d782d892-271	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats usually talk about good care for the elderly. It is therefore interesting to see what the Swedish Democrats do in practice when they are allowed to run a municipality. The residents and relatives protest when Ängsgården's dementia housing in Sölvesborg is closed. But the money will go to Frösunda, which will open a new home. Why is that bad? Because they are notorious for taking money that would have gone to the residents and to the staff and putting it in their own pocket. Then the manning will be lower, and it will be harder to make it. Maybe that's why they were thrown out of Sundbyberg. Maybe that's why they got the whites in Lomma. Perhaps that is why an elderly person at Frösunda in Sollentuna had to lie down for 19 hours without getting out of bed. It's connected to the prize hunt. When it comes to the right, the Swedish Democrats always choose right-wing politics and lower taxes for the rich before welfare. In the case of private companies, profits are more important than ensuring that nurses have enough co-workers.
i-0fa63402d782d892-274	Mr President, I would like to I do not question the fact that there are problems in the care of the elderly around the country. There are probably problems even in Sölvesborg. However, as Jonas Sjöstedt probably knows, there are open comparisons. There you compare municipalities in different ways. Sölvesborg spends more money than comparable municipalities on the elderly. I think that's good. I think that is a reasonable priority. I have fought throughout my political life to give priority not least to the elderly in our society over people from all corners of the world who have no reason to be here or to those who do not put duty and diligence before being entitled to, for example, subsidies and other things. I think it's good politics. I am aware that Jonas Sjöstedt does not think so, but we belong to different parties and have completely different voters. I'm fine with it. It's democracy.
i-0fa63402d782d892-278	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson was a bit into this that we as politicians can be wrong. That could be the case. I haven't always been right either, but almost. I'm kidding. After all, the European Union is an extremely important organisation for the development of peace and prosperity in our part of the world. I understand that the Swedish Democrats now have a positive attitude towards the European Union continuing to develop and focus on the right things. I have also heard Jimmie Åkesson say that nuclear research together in the European Union is good. It's an opinion I really share. The Liberals share the opinion of the Swedish Democrats there. But I have some concerns: do you really support European cooperation? Another area where we need to reinforce this is the fight against crime. No matter how much police officers we can get in Sweden and how hard penalties we can get when it comes to serious crime, we must cooperate with Danish, Finnish, German and Dutch police to fight crime. Do the Swedish Democrats want to develop this cooperation?
i-0fa63402d782d892-281	Mr President, I would like to I was politically committed to the fact that we voted for membership of the European Union. I have been incredibly critical of Swedish membership ever since. I still am. However, I have come to realise that Sweden would benefit from the fact that we too have a more constructive input into European cooperation, see the benefits, try to develop them and, within the framework of European policy, work to remove what we think is bad. Yes, in that sense, we are behind it. One of the things to cooperate even more about in Europe is precisely the fight against crime, in particular the fight against international organised crime. We have also voted in favour of and put forward proposals for the development of greater border protection and the like. On the other hand, we are not prepared to support anything similar to the FBI in Europe. That's going way too far. On the other hand, we know that the Liberals would like that. I think it's a bad idea.
i-0fa63402d782d892-284	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the answer, Jimmie Åkesson! Yes, that's correct. We do not share this view. We Liberals believe that more police cooperation is necessary in order to crack down on the serious crime that is well organised. There are stretches from parts of Europe to Sweden and also in the other direction. If we are to face this, we need operational cooperation between the police in the various countries. The Swedish Democrats say no to this. I'm more worried about German felons than about German police, actually. We must have the courage to cooperate. The same applies to the prosecution's cooperation. Schengen cooperation needs to be developed so that we can better exchange information. If you think this is doubtful, you should look at Britain, where they are incredibly worried right now about a lot of things, also how they should cooperate policely. The borders will not be closed in the UK, but they will find it difficult to act and cooperate on security issues, both internal and external security. This would be the wrong way to go, and I think that the Swedish Democrats should acknowledge that they have been wrong here and want to deepen cooperation in the police field.
i-0fa63402d782d892-288	Mr President, I would like to I can admit when I'm wrong, but in this case I don't think I've been wrong. However, I have always talked about the importance of deepening cooperation, but it should be done in the right way. If you watch American crime films or comics, you notice quite often that someone has been murdered. You get to see a crime scene, and there's a couple of cops digging around and trying to figure out the crime. Then the tough guys come in jackets where the FBI is on their backs and say they're taking over. I don't want it that way in Sweden. I don't want it to come from Bulgarian or Romanian FBI agents and tell Swedish police officers at a crime scene to get out of there and now the agents are going to take over because it's a federal matter. On the other hand, we will deepen our cooperation with our neighbours Denmark and Norway in particular, who are not members of the EU – it is perfectly possible – and Finland. If we sat down and talked about this, I think we could come up with something constructive, but I don't want any FBI agents in Sweden.
i-0fa63402d782d892-291	Madam President, I would like In the last few days and in the last week we've all seen the TV pictures of bleeding children, crying mothers and injured in truck bodies in Syria. According to the UN, 160 000 have been forced to leave and flee their homes in the last week. At the same time, we have over 60 million people on the run today, more than ever since World War II. They are on the run from war, oppression and disasters. Unfortunately, the future looks even darker if we do not prevent the climate crisis, which could lead to hundreds of millions of people being forced to flee areas that become uninhabitable. And then, Madam President, just then, Jimmie Åkesson's party decides to cut aid by EUR 16 billion, at the same time slaughtering the climate budget and wanting to stop the reception of asylum in Sweden. I wonder, Jimmie Åkesson: Is it your intention that we who are rich have no human responsibility for those who are poor and forced to flee for their lives?
i-0fa63402d782d892-294	Madam President, I would like Let us just say this: yes, we are cutting back on aid. Swedish aid, I mean, is very largely ineffective. It can be improved, and we can get better aid with lower costs. I would also like to say, Madam President, that when we see Swedish municipalities on their knees, how the elderly cannot eat hot food, how the temperature is lowered in retirement homes, how the care queues never seem to stop growing and how people die on the streets because we cannot manage the security mission or maintain the monopoly of violence in the way we should do, it is not unreasonable to make a different priority than before. Our aid budget is 0.7% of GDP. It is quite much lower than the one that Isabella Lövin and the government represent, but it is still one of the world's largest aid budgets. Sweden remains one of the world's leading aid countries. I think we should be, but we must also give priority to our own.
i-0fa63402d782d892-297	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the clarification, Jimmie Åkesson! You bet 7 billion on reducing petrol tax while cutting 16 billion from support to the poorest. We have a one-percent target for aid in Sweden, and now SD is committed to making a substantial shift. I note that, unfortunately, the Moderates seem to be heading in the same direction. At the same time, we in the world are seeing an increasing need for help. Women and children need help with medical care, for SRHR and for vaccinations. We also need to adjust to cope with the climate crisis. Is it correct to understand that Jimmie Åkesson thinks that the most sensible way to act is to let people fend for themselves in the poor part of the world and that we should not open the door to those who knock or help on the ground? Is this the ideology that the Swedish Democrats stand for?
i-0fa63402d782d892-301	Madam President, I would like I do not deny that there are enormous sorrows and sorrows in the world. We can all see that, as Isabella Lövin rightly pointed out initially. But just because we see it on TV, it's nothing new. The figure of 65 million refugees around the world has been around for quite a long time now, and it is growing all the time. It's scary. Sweden, even with our budget, gives an incredible amount of money in help. We direct our aid money, for example, to refugee work through the UN and to work to enable children to attend school even in refugee camps and the like. Even with our budget, it will be more than almost every other country in the world gives. So no, it's not like we're taking everything away. But we also have problems in Sweden, and these are growing because you are unable to do things better. Then we must prioritise a little differently from what we have done so far.
i-0fa63402d782d892-303	Madam President, I would like Now we have been debating for two hours, and women's health and gender equality have barely been lifted up. Another issue that divides the country is the availability of good maternal and maternity care. If we are to create a closer and safer maternity care, we must listen to the women. Today, the contrasts are too great. Many women around Sweden get a very good treatment and go through both pregnancy and childbirth with bright memories. However, regional differences in healthcare and accessibility are still too wide. We can't have that. It is not enough simply to spend more money on maternity care and hope for the best, but smart reforms are needed. Childbirth care needs to be more equal. That is why we want to establish which care is entitled to through national clear guidelines. We also need to solve the challenge of staff shortages and centralisation, which put women at risk of having children in cars in some places, while at the same time in others they face a shortage of space. That's why we want more midwife-led clinics. It is a complement to our larger maternity clinics and increases accessibility, not least in rural areas. We know that similar clinics in Europe have produced good results and have a high level of patient safety. Women who have given birth in midwife-led clinics are not only more satisfied with their birth but also have fewer complications. We also want to enable more women to have a midwife through pregnancy and childbirth as well as the important aftercare. This both increases women's security and gives the midwife a better working environment and work situation. In order to lower the threshold for more women to talk about their own health, both birth injuries and menopause, the Center Party also wants to give women the opportunity to volunteer healthy health during cell sampling. We need to take women's voice and health seriously, and that is why we are continuing our work towards closer care and a new security throughout the country.
i-0fa63402d782d892-309	Madam President, I would like Annie Lööf often chooses to talk about the whole of Sweden – that all of Sweden should live and that we should have a well-functioning welfare. She gave examples of it now. But the fact is that today the Center Party is running in many places and doing exactly the opposite. In Leksand, Dalarna, the Center Party chose to have education throughout the municipality. After that, Djura school has been shut down. In Kiruna, for once, the Center Party has come to power. Student assistants disappear from school, and you don't know how to meet pupils' special needs. In Haninge, care for the elderly is cut quite brutally. Children's and adolescents' psychiatric clinic in Lidköping has been closed down. The Center is in charge of the region. The list is long on what is actually happening. What is Annie Lööf's message to those who are now affected by the real policy of the Center Party?
i-0fa63402d782d892-312	Madam President, I would like Many municipalities are on their knees. It is a tough economic situation, and it has been for a number of years. These include demographics with an increasing number of older people but also an increasing number of younger ones going to school. At the same time, we get fewer in the working-age population that pays taxes. If we are to have a high level of prosperity in this country, we must have more people who pay taxes, that is, more people who work. The Left seems to think you can conjure up resources for welfare. But Abrakadabra does not work in practice, it requires a good and growth-friendly policy with more companies hiring and paying taxes and more people having the opportunity to work and pay taxes. To this we, as national politicians, can prioritise and distribute these tax revenues, so that we can invest more in general state subsidies, which are important, but also, for example, decide on a more equal system of equalisation that enables these municipalities – often small municipalities in sparsely populated areas – to cope with good and equal care and well-being for all.
i-0fa63402d782d892-315	Madam President, I would like No, it's not Annie Lööf, it's not Annie Lööf. It's not like I can do magic. But we can both prioritise. When we negotiated the budget, welfare came first, and then equality reforms came first. We made sure that when municipalities were having a tough time they got more supplements. We know that the needs are enormous in the future, and we know that what you are allocating in the budget is not enough. There's a wave of contractions waiting. Almost every municipality is going to cut back at school. The elderly care in many places is on their knees. Operating village schools are being closed down, not least in center-controlled municipalities, because the Center Party is prioritising something else. It's about cutting taxes on rich men in our big cities. Where you're already good, you're better off. It is also a question of reducing employers' contributions which have very little impact on investment and employment. That's where the money goes. Then you stand there with village schools closing down, bus lines closing down and health centers that are understaffed. That's the Center Party policy.
i-0fa63402d782d892-318	Madam President, I would like Jonas Sjöstedt is not credible. Jonas Sjöstedt's Left Party has governed the national budget in recent years. This is where we see the results. Jonas Sjöstedt's Left Party prioritised targeted small state grants to municipalities, not general state grants. These small rural municipalities cannot apply for these targeted state grants. They have neither human nor financial resources to do so. They've been screaming for general government grants. Now they get it. In order for us as national politicians to have the opportunity to prioritise and give general state subsidies to the municipalities, people who work and pay taxes are required. The money doesn't fall from the sky. It is only when the tax revenue has come in that Jonas Sjöstedt and I can prioritise and distribute. Now we are doing so, both through general state subsidies and through a growth-friendly policy that allows us to have small businesses that create jobs and tax revenues across rural communities throughout the country. It is a good and important centre policy.
i-0fa63402d782d892-320	Madam President, I would like The Center Party and the Christian Democrats have, as a rule, agreed on the main features of parental insurance. It should be generous both for the children and for the parents. The distribution should be a matter for the families, not for the government. In December 2017, an investigation suggested both that the quota of parental days should increase and that parental allowance should be used more concentrated during the child's early years. The last thing I mean is new language for it to be shortened and for children's time with their parents to be reduced. Your budget states that this is being prepared in the Government Office, which means that work on these deteriorations is now under way. Madam President, I would like That is why I wonder: will the Center Party contribute to shorter and tighter parental insurance?
i-0fa63402d782d892-324	Madam President, I would like Parental insurance is not included in the January contract. You write in a budget that preparation is ongoing when you have had an investigation. Then you analyze this investigation. It's perfectly normal in the Swedish government. Let me tell you what the Center Party thinks about parental insurance. We have been in the same line for many years. Among other things, we want to encourage gender equality, but we do not believe in regulated quotas. We think that the division that exists today is good. That is why, among other things, we voted against a third father month. However, we want more carrots to increase equality. These include the gender equality bonus that the Alliance jointly implemented to encourage it. My husband and I had an equal distribution because we could have it, and I think it is something that should be encouraged. We also want parental insurance to be better adapted to star families and modernised. These are some important parts that we in the Center Party want in parental insurance.
i-0fa63402d782d892-327	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats and the Center Party, as I have said, share many crucial points on this particular issue. It is important that parents have the opportunity to be present and connect with their children when they are young and that it is possible to adapt to this particular situation. Families are different, and children are different. Our line is clear. We do not want any quota at all. We want a completely free parental insurance policy. It is important when there are more star families, and it is important that families and parents in the country have so different conditions. Madam President, I would like On the basis of Annie Lööf's reply, however, I feel that the Center Party will not contribute to the shortening of parental insurance or to an additional quota of parental insurance.
i-0fa63402d782d892-330	Madam President, I would like The entrance of the Center Party to these issues has been clear for many years. We have laid down our policies in our voices for a long number of years. It's about us believing in more carrots and fewer whips. But we're also completely committed to gender equality. We see that there are more and more mothers than fathers who take parenting days. We also see an even more skewed distribution in terms of days. In order for women not to fall behind in terms of income and pensions, and in view of the increase in ill-health that affects women during early childhood years, it is important that we encourage a more equal set-aside. We will continue to work for that.
i-0fa63402d782d892-331	Madam President, I would like We have an emergency for the climate. We have a few years to reduce emissions to try to prevent and slow down climate change. The Swedish government has a fairly high profile on the climate issue. I think that's good. But emissions are not decreasing. We are only doing a small part of what we have to do to do our part in order to reduce emissions. Major and more radical changes are needed. The Left Party is presenting a series of proposals that would further reduce climate emissions in Sweden. It's about controlling investment. There are 100 companies that account for 70% of global emissions. Then you have to have the courage to say no to new refineries and expanded airports. Then you have to deduct the money that is in our pension funds that is invested in companies with fossil fuel operations. Then we will also help those companies that want to get rid of fossil dependence by creating a green investment bank that Swedish steelworks and paper mills can use to reset. It is also necessary to make it easier for ordinary people – for ordinary men and women – to actually contribute. Then it does not keep that public transport becomes more expensive and more expensive, as it becomes in many places in Sweden. On the contrary, it must be able to be free of charge in more places. Then it must be easier for those living in rural Sweden to be able to use biogas or electricity for their car. It's kind of hard today if you live in the wrong place. It must then be possible, with good support, to put solar panels on the roof and to make themselves independent of the energy companies. We have a climate budget that means that we invest SEK 10 billion more than the government in this type of investment. It takes more if we're going to get through the climate.
i-0fa63402d782d892-336	Madam President, I would like An urgent issue that Jonas Sjöstedt has raised at some point in the debate is that on which we will take a position later, namely the increased retirement age. I would just like to emphasise that the Swedish Democrats are not in favour of this proposal either. Although Jonas Sjöstedt often lumps together the so-called right-wing parties in some kind of joint group, we are not in this case. We certainly need to work more, and we need to work more hours in one life. But it's not just about the end of life, it's about the whole working life. It is also a question of establishing ourselves in the labour market. We need to get to work sooner than we do today. The bill that we will consider also includes other things, such as improvements for those who want and can and who themselves choose to work longer. Why is the Left Party opposed to them? Why should it get worse for those who choose to work longer if they want and can?
i-0fa63402d782d892-339	Madam President, I would like No, I have not pointed out the Swedish Democrats on this issue. Perhaps Åkesson feels hit when I talk about right-wing parties, but Jimmie Åkesson must decide for himself. I also agree that it is good that people work more hours. I also believe that many of us will work further up in our age. Hopefully we'll live longer and get healthier. But this must happen because people can do it, not because they are forced to do it. People who are worn out must be able to receive a reasonable pension. That is why I have also proposed amendments to the sickness allowance, which would provide flexibility so that even the worn-out construction worker or assistant nurse can receive a reasonable pension. We are not against changing the regulations that exist, such as social security, so that it will be easier for those who work further up the age to do so. It can be positive and reasonable for the regulatory framework to follow up with age. But the main purpose of the bill is to raise the retirement age. That is why we are calling for the whole proposal to be rejected because we do not want to increase the retirement age.
i-0fa63402d782d892-342	Madam President, I would like Regardless of what Jonas Sjöstedt says, it is a fact that it will vote against improvements even for those who choose to work longer. I think it is strange, given what Jonas Sjöstedt says. Many people can no longer work, and that is why we agree that the retirement age should not be increased. On the other hand, many people will want to work longer. Why are you against them having it about as good as those who work during a previous part of their lives? It's about SGI, annuity and some other things. It is strange that the Left Party wants to make it worse for those who still choose to work longer in life.
i-0fa63402d782d892-344	Madam President, I would like As I pointed out earlier, those security systems can change. But the very purpose of the bill, the purpose of the bill, is to raise the retirement age. We do not want to do that, and we are calling for the bill to be rejected in its entirety. I think it is more consistent than saying that we should go in and meek a little bit. Then we're in and we're working on what's supposed to allow for an increased retirement age. We don't want it, and then we vote no.
i-0fa63402d782d892-347	Madam President, I would like The RUT reform, which the Center Party was the driving force in getting in place, has been a great success. As recently as last summer, Growth Analysis presented an evaluation showing that reforms have created, at least, around 8 500 new jobs and that the survival rate of RUTs is higher than for comparable companies. We know from the past that the deduction is most common in women, and it is also women who run the companies offering RUT services to a large extent. The draft budget of the Left Party – for which time I do not know – includes once again the abolition of the RUT deduction. Why is the Left Party so obsessed with demolishing a success reform for employment, for integration, for entrepreneurship in general, for women's entrepreneurship in particular and for people's opportunities to get their life puzzles together more easily?
i-0fa63402d782d892-349	Madam President, I would like There are several reasons why we have different priorities. It's expensive. It's ineffective. It's not fair. And it also doesn't give very many jobs to newcomers, who were said to be one of the main reasons. You always have to weigh different costs against each other in a budget. We choose to invest in welfare. This is not done in the January budget. We use the money for the welfare. It is more important today that there is education for the elderly, that there is a good home care service and that there is an investment in health care, than that people who preferably – but not only – have a high income can receive support for home cleaning. They can purchase the services without subsidy. Above all, raising the ceiling, as the Center Party has insisted, is a measure which, like many other things, really only benefits extremely high-paid people in Sweden.
i-0fa63402d782d892-352	Madam President, I would like All the foreign-born women who have got their first job in the RUT sector, their first salary, have the opportunity to learn Swedish, have received security, pension points and the like, probably does not see this as an ugly and incorrect job. Jonas Sjöstedt said in a debate a few years ago that they can well get a real job. What's so ugly about this business? It is important to highlight an industry which creates jobs, not least for those whom we know today have the most difficulty in entering the labour market, i.e. foreign-born people who often lack upper secondary education. We also see that the use of these services is increasing far from the big city. They increased most last year in Jämtland, Västernorrland, Blekinge and Jonas Sjöstedt's own Västerbotten. It is a reform that makes black money white, creates greater security for these people who work there and gives many people a first important foot into the labour market. Why is it more important to destroy such a sector of success on ideological grounds?
i-0fa63402d782d892-356	Madam President, I would like Our assessment is that it would create many more jobs if we instead allowed resources to go to welfare in particular. There is good evidence that precarious employment is widely used in the RUT sector. We can see that it is intertwined with black economy; black and white missions go over each other. Those who use these services very much are high-income earners. So it is a redistribution from rural home care to subsidise housekeeping for wealthy people in Stockholm suburbs – a little crudely put. We think it is a bad distribution policy. I think Annie Lööf should consider that there will be an acute shortage of labour. Lots of people need to be educated for Swedish welfare. Why, then, should you invest in people cleaning in rich people's homes instead of ensuring that more people can be educated for Swedish welfare?
i-0fa63402d782d892-359	Madam President, I would like The world is in many ways unpleasant. I am pleased that the Left Party, together with the Liberals, was able to take the initiative quickly to discuss actions and measures against Turkish aggression. But that is not the only problem that exists. Russia is increasingly aggressive. A new authority for psychological defence must be established in Sweden. China is directly unpleasant and behaves in a completely unacceptable way; in Sweden partly and in the world. Now I heard Jonas Sjöstedt calling for the United States to make efforts, now that the country is withdrawing. That's what you want primarily, but unfortunately the U.S. President has chosen to go a path that few like, even in his own country. How does the Left Party view its own cooperation with countries such as Venezuela? Is it all good there? When is the Left Party going to highlight the situation in Venezuela and for Venezuela's democrats?
i-0fa63402d782d892-362	Madam President, I would like I think that Liberals and left-wing parties together did a good job of pushing the government towards Turkey. I share Johan Pehrson's view of Russia. I recently visited a number of opposition groups and human rights organisations in Russia, which are under severe pressure. They deserve more support. The Left Party has been one of the parties most committed to Gui Minhai and to the lack of human rights in China. I think we should do this together when it is possible. I also share your view that the United States has failed those who defeated IS in Syria. But then, frankly, I don't understand what you mean by bringing up Venezuela. We have no contact with Venezuela at all.
i-0fa63402d782d892-365	Madam President, I would like It's a little bit about the selective selection The Left Party tends to do when it comes to criticizing imperfect regimes – not to say dictatorships – around the world. It is not so long ago that the Left Party celebrated both the former leadership, Chávez, and now Maduro. Where is the line where you feel that just because it is a socialist government you do not dare to express criticism of all the people who have their lives ruined, even in Latin America? We are talking about thousands of people who are imprisoned and about an inflation of 130 000 %, or whatever it is. We have a situation where people are suffering massively. Would the Left Party like to join the Liberals in a work of criticising the Venezuelan dictatorship?
i-0fa63402d782d892-367	Madam President, I would like One advice is to google before a party leader debate, Johan Pehrson. Googla. Jonas Sjöstedt and Venezuela and see what I've written! Then you can see that I'm saying that I think it's a decomposition and that it's gross mismanagement. I say that there are serious democratic shortcomings, that the elections in which Mr Maduro was elected were not legitimate and that there should be a new election in which the people of Venezuela can elect a new government. I say that it is the Venezuelan Government that is responsible both for the very bad humanitarian situation in the country, where people are actually starving and have no access to healthcare, and for the very bad political situation, where people are imprisoned because of their political beliefs and where the independence of the judiciary cannot be guaranteed. If you want to write that article with me, I do it every day of the week, Johan Pehrson!
i-f15c42661424dfd0-0	Good! )
i-0fa63402d782d892-369	Madam President, I would like The January agreement has made the difference between what we can call rich politics and party politics visible. What does my party need? ......................................................................................................................................................................................... .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Parties will always have different views, and when our democracy works at its best, different parties will compete with their ideas. Opinions are broken in free debate where the starting point is a common goal of doing what is best for all. With the January agreement, however, we have moved away from the common goal, I mean, and moved towards more of the narrowed party interest. This is so well reflected in the budget that the government has just presented. There are no wise priorities based on the major societal problems that we are now facing. That is why I hope that someone today will want to debate an issue that really is of national concern to me: how can we shorten the care queues and improve care throughout the country? We propose, among other things, an updated patient law that prohibits county councils from rationing care when there are caregivers who want and can treat more. We want to introduce the right to an own, present midwife throughout the birth process, and we want to implement the gradual abolition of county councils. They're obsolete and they don't work. It's time to stop defending them. I hope to hear some of your proposals in the area of health care, because we need more rich politics and less party politics in this House.
i-0fa63402d782d892-373	Madam President, I would like With regard to waiting times in healthcare, we agree that cooperation must be established in order for us to be able to really shorten waiting times. Among other things, the primary care reform is such cooperation. However, one issue in which we are far apart is the security that people who actually get sick should feel. The Christian Democrats, like the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, want to reintroduce a backlog in health insurance so that sick people are thrown out of health insurance and are forced to go to the municipality's social office. In addition, the Moderates want those affected by illness to receive lower compensation and another withdrawal day, and there is much to suggest that the Christian Democrats would agree to that in a negotiation. However, my question to Ebba Busch Thor is another. The four parties in the Alliance wrote in their reform agenda for Sweden: What did the Christian Democrats mean by that? Can we develop that reasoning?
i-0fa63402d782d892-376	Madam President, I would like The Prime Minister chooses three different tracks during his 60 seconds of speaking time. I choose to answer the last part. The Christian Democrats felt that the best thing for Sweden was a bourgeois government that had clearly announced in advance what political reforms and what policies we wanted to pursue jointly in Sweden – what we thought would do the best for Sweden. We strongly criticised the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party for not agreeing with their policies, and we did not want to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats on the policies they stood for. Instead, we wanted to form government with each other. Then, as you know, it did not happen, Madam President, and that is why Stefan Löfven continues to be Prime Minister in Sweden – despite historically long care queues and despite the fact that he does not have a single political proposal to shorten those who are not a Christian Democratic proposal.
i-0fa63402d782d892-379	Madam President, I would like It is nevertheless interesting that the four parties stated that the Swedish Democrats wanted to bring Sweden on an unknown and dangerous course. It was done as late as January in the offer then made to the Centre Party and the Liberals. Is the analysis different now, or is the same analysis still there?
i-0fa63402d782d892-380	Madam President, I would like It was a historically ludicrous question from the Prime Minister in this round. No, I still stick to the analysis that a great deal of the policy of the Swedish Democrats is difficult to implement in reality, and I do not share the view of a great deal of their policy. However, I think that respect in this House can be asked for the Prime Minister to ask him the questions that should be addressed to Jimmie Åkesson and for the Prime Minister to ask me the questions that should be addressed to me. Then it will be a better debate.
i-0fa63402d782d892-381	Madam President, I would like Halade pride flags, restrictions on home language teaching, cleansing among library children's books in languages other than Swedish, prohibition of free art and refusal to accept asylum seekers – the effects of Sweden's democrat influence in Sölvesborg appear on the spot. Since Ebba Busch Thors's party in Sölvesborg cooperates with the Swedish Democrats on these points in the so-called co-government, I would like to ask how Ebba Busch Thor views the development in that municipality.
i-0fa63402d782d892-382	Madam President, I would like As usual, there are a lot of political decisions that are carried out at local level. Some agree, and some disagree. I think that in an issue such as cultural policy at local level – for example, which principles should apply to the purchase of art and so on – it is perfectly reasonable to have the right to decide on it at local level. This is not an issue to be decided on in the Swedish Parliament.
i-0fa63402d782d892-383	Madam President, I would like Now I did not ask about the principle of subsidiarity, but I asked what Ebba Busch Thor, as party leader of his party, thinks that local Christian Democrats are involved in writing – and also want to implement – points on, for example, slippery Pride flags, restrictions on native language teaching, cleansing among libraries' children's books in languages other than Swedish and refusal to accept asylum seekers. Cooperation is about concrete policy on substance, but it is also about values and human views. This is an obvious basis both for the Christian Democrats and for the Center Party. What we now see when Sweden Democrats are given influence in Sölvesborg is how they want to fundamentally change society. Jimmie Åkesson has even said that it will counteract social disintegration. Bring in that word! It should worry all of us, both Christian Democrats and center parties, who hold decency, human dignity and transparency high. Is Ebba Busch Thor not concerned about the consequences of Sweden's democratic values having an impact at national level, just as it has in Sölvesborg?
i-0fa63402d782d892-386	Madam President, I would like We stand where we've always stood. You do not need to think about where you have Christian Democrats on fundamental values; we will continue to stand up for the equal value of all people in all parts. This does not mean, however, that there is an exact formula for the principle for the purchase of art by an individual municipality. It has also long been customary in many municipalities to lift only one flag, namely Sweden's flag, or to have had a very restrictive view of which flags you lift. I'm happy to lift the rainbow flag and have no problem with it. However, I have respect for the fact that other municipalities choose to have different arrangements, just as it has been for many years and as it is in many other municipalities.
i-0fa63402d782d892-388	Madam President, I would like One of the biggest challenges we face in terms of health care and care for the elderly is to get enough people who want to work there to take care of our sick and our elderly. Getting good working conditions, enough co-workers and decent wages is probably an absolute must if we are to do this in the future. It also includes getting a good pension and being able to receive the pension on the day you are no longer able to work. But this afternoon the Christian Democrats will vote in favour of an increased retirement age. We know that one of the groups that will be most affected by this is the members of Kommunal, who do the important work in welfare for us. Many of them do not even have the energy to retire today, and now they are suffering a marked deterioration. How can you attract people to take care of our elderly people when you start by reducing their pension conditions?
i-0fa63402d782d892-391	Madam President, I would like There are several parts to this, but I will begin by responding to precisely what concerns the changes in pension conditions, which Jonas Sjöstedt asked about. In essence, we think it is reasonable to retire slightly later when people live much longer and when we are gradually working to improve working conditions all the time. But it's an incredibly important question– if I am widening it a little bit to keep it bearing – that we make sure that we get more hands and more colleagues in our retirement homes, hospitals and health centres, so that people actually can cope. Now we have a women-dominated industry, which care still is, where there has not been at all the same good wage development or working conditions development as in male-dominated industries. It is an important issue for gender equality to push for further improvements in working conditions and wage developments there.
i-0fa63402d782d892-394	Madam President, I would like I agree with the last thing Ebba Busch Thor said. We also made a significant commitment to care for the elderly during the last parliamentary term, and we would like to see it continue. But it is also a question of knowing that you will not be a poor pensioner the day you have finished your work. That is exactly where the problem lies with the increase in the retirement age that you intend to vote through this afternoon, Ebba Busch Thor. Many of Kommunal's members will suffer from it because they are unable to work to the increased age of guidance. We have proposed making it easier to receive sickness benefit when you actually cannot cope and can work later until the day you receive a pension, and then your pension will also be higher. I have not seen a corresponding proposal from the Christian Democrats. I believe that raising the retirement age in the manner in which it is done strikes the workers of welfare – against those who do this heavy job. In fact, it is the opposite of protecting these people and ensuring that they have good working conditions and a reasonable economy.
i-0fa63402d782d892-398	Madam President, I would like It should be clear that the limit is first raised by a year. This is not unreasonable, given that we live longer. However, as many people today have jobs where they simply cannot last indefinitely, we must also continue to push for improved working conditions. That is why we have said that municipalities should be rewarded and given additional resources if they can consistently show that they improve working conditions, increase continuity and increase access between staff and managers in care for the elderly. Compared to the January parties and the budget supported by Jonas Sjöstedt, we are not cutting back on the elderly, as the January parties are actually doing in this budget. It was we Christian Democrats who ensured that the tax was reduced five times for pensioners when we were in government. It is we in the Pensions Group who have pushed for further tax cuts and, above all, for improvements and increases in the guarantee pension, despite the fact that the Social Democrats were against. I think we can work together here, but we're giving results here.
i-0fa63402d782d892-403	Madam President, I would like I was going to talk a little bit about taxes with the Christian Democrats – it's a dear subject. You have to have a principle of tax collection. A liberal principle is that you should not charge more tax than is really needed. Another is that taxes should be levied so that it does not harm the wealth-creating forces, that is, so that we have a dynamic in our economy. Then the tax revenue could grow. A third principle is that you should have half left. We Liberals think it is reasonable that a person who invests heavily in education, takes a great deal of responsibility and helps to make Sweden grow and who gets a wage increase retains half of this wage increase. This leads to increased dynamism and a growing economy and, according to all known estimates, is self-financing in such a way that it leads to more hours worked and to the growth of the economy. Thus it is very good for Sweden and for the long-term welfare. Why are the Christian Democrats against this?
i-0fa63402d782d892-407	Madam President, I would like Reduced tax is also welfare. Having a little more left in your wallet at the end of the month is also welfare, because it's a kind of security. This is a principle that we continue to work on. I also think it is reasonable that you should not have to pay more than 50% of your salary in tax. That is why, in principle, we have felt that the defence tax is partly immoral in its form and has no problem in removing it in the long term. The starting point of the Christian Democrats is that it should always pay more to work than not to. But it should also be the case that Christian-democratic tax policy serves everyone – everyone gets reduced tax. The tax policy now being implemented with the January parties means that the Prime Minister gets reduced tax but that a nurse does not get it. It's not morally defensible.
i-0fa63402d782d892-411	Madam President, I would like You have to look at tax policy over time. The current year saw the introduction of a new job tax deduction. We Liberals thought this to be quite reasonable, and it was part of the budget that the Moderates and Christian Democrats put together. It's good to have a reduced tax rate for ordinary people. Now we are further lowering taxes on pensioners. We are taking a step to close the gap between previously earned income and today's income; we also think that is morally right and the right step to take. But then there are taxes that hurt our economy a lot. One of these was the inheritance tax, which the Social Democrats courageously removed. Another was the wealth tax, which the alliance government took away. It was important for the economy to function better. It is also the case that social democratic governments have previously removed taxes in the hundreds of billions class. The Alliance did the same, and every time the tax revenue has increased. This has led to more jobs in Sweden, increased welfare and more money in your wallet. Make sure we still have a 50 percent morale!
i-0fa63402d782d892-416	Madam President, I would like However, not everything can be done at the same time, and it becomes clear here. Liberals went to elections at the school first, but there was a abolition of military tax first. It was ensured that there was a very little further improvement in money in terms of school, but otherwise it was chosen to prioritise reduced tax rates for those who earn the most. I have no problem with the Prime Minister getting a tax cut. If you work hard, you should have the opportunity to have more left. My concern is that we have a crisis in health care, in care for the elderly and in the police force and that none of these professions receive reduced tax. The police are not allowed to reduce taxes. Nurses must not be allowed to reduce taxes. Care workers in elderly care must not be allowed to reduce taxes. That's a strange priority. I think, Madam President, that Johan Pehrson is well aware that it may pay off in the long term – in the 10 – 15 years' time – but that is not what drives the economy when you are about to enter a recession. This is the wrong time.
i-0fa63402d782d892-421	Madam President, I would like Ebba Busch Thor! As Minister for the Environment, it has been my responsibility to prepare the Government's case on how Sweden's nuclear waste will be safely disposed of over the next 100 000 years. In a meeting after a meeting I am currently sitting with Sweden's top experts in the field. The question I repeat during these meetings is: can we guarantee that the waste will not cause damage to people and the environment over the next 100 000 years? The answers differ. Some feel that it is safe, while others certainly cannot vouch for it. Ebba Busch Thor, you who now want to expand nuclear power and create even more radioactive waste, can you tell me what no expert has been able to tell me, namely how I guarantee a safe disposal of nuclear radioactive waste that will not harm our children over the next 100, 1 000 or 100 000 years?
i-0fa63402d782d892-423	Madam President, I would like We have come incredibly far in Sweden when it comes to raising the safety standards of our nuclear power plants. They are at the absolute peak in Sweden. We have also come a very long way when it comes to the question of disposals, but it is not in port. If the question is whether I can answer what the experts do not yet fully agree on, the answer is no.
i-EGAdXVbpb3jjbZz2XKCYV3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ebba Busch Thor, for your answer! I think the Christian principle of stewardship is good – perhaps Ebba Busch Thor also thinks – namely to take care of the earth and not hand over irreparable damage to all future generations. But what do you choose today if you are allowed to choose between the wind power that is currently being built in Sweden on market grounds with 80 billion in investments and that will correspond to 30 percent of Sweden's electricity needs within a few years, or to do as in Finland and try to get companies like Russian Rosatom to invest 80 billion in nuclear power, which, when it is completed in maybe 15–20 years, will produce about half of what wind power produces but is twice as expensive as wind power? What do you choose, Ebba Busch Thor, and what do you think is best for your children, grandchildren and grandchildren and all future generations?
i-0fa63402d782d892-426	Madam President, I would like The answer is, if I am going to try to answer the question, none of them, because it is a false claim that it would only be the two options you have to choose from. We need to continue to take the issue of disposal very seriously. That is why it is so important that the experts should now look at this issue and give the last word on where we can guarantee a good and safe disposal. The idea of stewardship is a guiding principle of Christian democracy in Sweden. That is why we are now involved in spending over 10 billion in our budget on investments in better climate and environment here at home in Sweden. And we are increasing the support for climate aid more than the January parties. What I still hope the government is prepared to address is the issue of rapid processing of the issue of climate change for industry. We know that companies that currently account for a large proportion of emissions in Sweden could significantly reduce emissions, but this requires rapid processing.
i-0fa63402d782d892-430	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be the country of opportunity for all. It can be said that social policy is handled in a large and small way. As I said, we are going to decide this afternoon on the Swedish pension system. It's not always fat. But it is sustainable, unlike the systems we have had in the past. We will also discuss a first step in the change of LSS. For us liberals, it is important that people who, for various reasons, cannot realize their own dreams of life, but must have the help of society, have a good chance of doing so by making up a little for the injustices of being born with a severe disability. We will give tools to those people to improve their lives and reach some dreams. Therefore, the restoration of functions in LSS is very important. We are now taking the first step that means that breathing should be counted as a basic need and be able to form the basis for personal assistance. It sounds almost strange to have to say it, but we are going to decide on this today. It's taken time, but now we're taking the first step. The government has recently issued legislative changes to ensure that the entire need for help with breathing and probe feeding will become assistant foundation. It will, but it also takes time for it to be investigated. This is a very important step. The next step that is under way and also needs to be investigated, which should be completed in a few years' time, is to restore the right to self-care assistance. It strengthens the right to assistance in case of need of supervision and narrows the definition of parental responsibility. The last step that we Liberals want to see is a review of the headship itself. We think it is the state that should be responsible instead of the municipalities. Madam President, I would like The January Agreement is an important arena of compromise. But this is one of the most important steps forward.
i-0fa63402d782d892-438	Madam President, I would like I am addressing the issue of the LSS. During the last parliamentary term, the Liberals, together with the Christian Democrats, acted to save personal assistance. As Johan Pehrson himself points out, assistance is not a luxury business. It aims to enable some of society's most vulnerable to lead a dignified life. Yet these people are treated quite mercilessly by the government of Löfven. Selma, a six - year - old girl with an innate brain malformation, got rid of her assistance after a judgment in the Supreme Administrative Court, even for probe feeding. Now the Liberals have contributed to a budget that continues to disappoint those who need assistance, we think. I heard at the outset that in practice the Liberals have changed their minds on the issue of assistance, but this is not apparent in the autumn budget.
i-0fa63402d782d892-442	Madam President, I would like I can only underline my frustration that this takes time and goes too slowly, but that is what it looks like. We have negotiated a proposal which is now taking this in three steps. The goal is to restore the assistance. I hope that, in the end, we will also achieve a change of headship. I hope that we can have the full support of the Christian Democrats for this. But it takes time. I am calling and we are calling our partners on this issue, because this was a central part of the January agreement for the government to take office, and they are working as ferrets to deliver. But it takes time. It should be prepared, you should find investigators and it should be referred. Of course we would like it to go even faster. Don't doubt it! But the resources are there, and it will be implemented. By 2021, at least full stage two shall be completed.
i-0fa63402d782d892-444	Madam President, I would like I have no doubt about the good will. On the contrary, I am pleased that we are in agreement here. However, in matters where the Government of Löfven, S and MPs, wants to get things done, for example, the issue of a special high school team to give amnesty to asylum seekers in particular who have been refused their asylum application, it suddenly goes very quickly. Then you can deliver, but you haven't done that in this area. I would also like to add that the work on getting breathing and feeding classified as basic needs was already started in the KD-M budget. Another aspect of the LSS issue, if you leave what is going on here, is the increase in the compensation for assistance, which in this budget is 1.5%, not 2.2% as we propose and which corresponds to the contractual wage initiatives. My question is this: were there not everything, among other things, equality authorities and the abolition of military taxes, the money needed to increase the compensation of assistance?
i-0fa63402d782d892-448	Madam President, I would like As I said, the collaboration that has enabled this government to take office is based on the fact that we have achieved important liberal reforms for a stronger economy, rebuilt Swedish defence and more police efforts than ever in real life – there is always an opposition that wants more. We are also receiving demands for the restoration of the LSS. This is part of the agreement. Then budget negotiations are another part. It is also a arena of compromise. However, I would like to emphasise that all governments in the last 40 years have actually been compromise arenas. You can't get everything through. I think we might have been able to fight even harder. We have got a list, but of course there is a risk of further erosion of the assistance if there are not enough staff for the users who need help and support. The assistance companies will have to drive even harder and slump already heavily slim organizations, and it is not entirely certain that it will benefit the user.
i-0fa63402d782d892-451	Madam President, I would like Author Amos Oz has described that there are three ways to act when you see that there is a fire. Either you can look away and run away or go home and write an insignia that it is terrible that no one has taken responsibility to extinguish the fire or get a bucket of water and start extinguishing. If you don't have a bucket, you take something else. Even a teaspoon is something. If all people take a teaspoon and start pouring water, all fires can be extinguished," says Amos Oz. Madam President, I would like I'm in politics to make a difference. I'm not here to complain. I definitely wouldn't be here if my instinct was to run and hide. I am here with my teaspoon, my bucket or preferably a fire hose to extinguish a dangerous fire while building something better – a better world for my children. I want to give hope for a future to long for, not be afraid of, as so many children are today. The Green Party is the party that has always stood up for those who do not have a voice: children, animals and future generations. Never before in history have these voices needed to be heard more than now. The Green Party is in the government because the climate cannot wait. Last week the government could therefore announce that we say no to tying up Sweden for 40 years of fossil gas dependence. Soon we will present Sweden's first climate action plan where we will review how industry, transport, agriculture and consumption, yes, the whole society, can become long-term independent of fossil fuels. Step by step, day by day we are now building the green and sustainable society. It's not a threat, it's a hope for the future.
i-0fa63402d782d892-455	Madam President, I would like I have also been in a government and know that in governments parties must compromise. Sometimes one feels a little different but lands in a common position. Various ministers must also have some freedom to express the government's overall policy in a slightly different way but with the same meaning. Ultimately, the responsible Minister and ultimately Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister must set the course if there is uncertainty. My question is therefore quite simple: does the government want to reduce or increase immigration to Sweden?
i-0fa63402d782d892-457	Madam President, I would like Ulf Kristersson's question is strange. I believe that we share the view that labour migration is necessary and good for Sweden when there is a shortage of labour in, for example, the construction sector and health care. Then perhaps we need to increase qualified labour migration. When it comes to the right of asylum, the government stands up for Sweden to respect the international right of asylum. We also call on other countries, not least within the EU, to assume their joint and several responsibilities. According to the UN, 160 000 people have fled their homes in northern Syria in the last week, and then, of course, the outside world must help the children, women and injured people who need help.
i-0fa63402d782d892-459	Madam President, I would like I did not seem to hear a crystal clear position on the matter. I am of course asking the question because the Prime Minister expressed a position on Swedish immigration which the Deputy Prime Minister then objected to. This is not a trivial issue where the government can have a little bit of any opinion, but it is a rather central part of Swedish debate how we should relate to the fact that we have received many immigrants and have a poorly functioning integration. Many Swedes probably want to know whether the government has an opinion at all on whether immigration should increase or decrease. The issue is also particularly topical given that we have a migration investigation to establish a long-term policy. Then one must probably have a position on this issue. My question remains: Does the Deputy Prime Minister think that the government's position is that immigration into Sweden should increase or decrease?
i-0fa63402d782d892-463	Madam President, I would like Ulf Kristersson is deliberately asking a roughly simplified question. Ulf Kristersson's party has long expressed the view that we should stand up for the right of asylum, and I hope that Ulf Kristersson's party continues to do so. The government is pushing for the EU Member States to assume joint and several responsibility for all the people on the run. That is the government's position. It can sometimes be difficult to distinguish between what are immigrants in the sense of labour immigrants and refugees, i.e. those who flee for their lives, have nothing and need protection in order not to be persecuted or killed by bombs in the countries from which they come. Here we cannot put a number and say that we do not accept that last person who is threatened to his life. Someone must take this responsibility, and we demand that the whole of Europe stand up for the right of asylum and assume its joint and several responsibilities.
i-0fa63402d782d892-466	Madam President, I would like I got started a bit when Isabella Lövin brought up the disposal of the nuclear waste. It is not only about an environmental party being responsible for what we are going to do with nuclear waste for 100 000 years, but also about the fact that the Green Party is perhaps the most anti-nuclear party we have in this House. The Swedish democrats believe in keeping the current nuclear power with older technology as long as possible and also want research to develop nuclear energy in the meantime. For example, we want a fourth-generation nuclear research reactor in Oskarshamn and to be part of European cooperation in this research. Then we will be able to use the nuclear fuel. My question to Minister of the Environment Isabella Lövin is therefore: Why is it better to bury nuclear waste for 100,000 years than to use it and then only have to bury it for a few hundred years?
i-0fa63402d782d892-469	Madam President, I would like I thank Jimmie Åkesson for what I suppose is an honest question. The so-called fourth generation reactors and the new technology that the Swedish Democrats and Jimmie Åkesson believe in are not new, but they have been talking about this for 30 to 40 years. But in the United States, Japan, and other countries, the attempts have been stopped even though they long believed that they could use the waste to produce new nuclear power. Nuclear waste is a safety risk, and I hope the Swedish Democrats will agree with that. We also need to monitor it, not only for ten years against terrorists and others who may want to manufacture nuclear weapons from the material, but for 100 000 years, which is a delicate and responsible task for this generation. Then it is good that there are parties in the Swedish parliament that continue to be critical and really ensures security.
i-0fa63402d782d892-472	Madam President, I would like I am not one of those who are tech pessimists like the Green Party, but I think this is possible. There is a broad research base that shows that it is possible to use the existing nuclear fuel instead of, as the Green Party wants, burying it for 100 000 years. I am aware that this is a safety risk. Why, then, does the Green Party so infernally hate the proposals for research that, instead of burying nuclear fuel, we can use it and not bury it for 100 000 years and then just, until we have invented additional technology, have to bury it for a few hundred years? It is reasonably easier to find safe custody for a few hundred years than for 100,000 years. Why is the Green Party so strongly opposed to this?
i-0fa63402d782d892-474	Madam President, I would like Today, there is no clear research that says that we are nearing a breakthrough for the fourth generation of nuclear power. I know that it is market forces that determine the way forward for energy supply and supply in Sweden and other countries. Sweden is currently exporting renewable electricity to Finland. Their nuclear power plants, with the new safety rules that apply after Fukushima, have been so enormously delayed and so hugely more expensive. Once completed, the electricity they produce will be two or three times more expensive than new wind power from Swedish wind turbines. The industry is now investing 80 billion in wind power in Sweden. There is no market idea of investing in nuclear energy that does not exist and is much more expensive if you do not believe in the planned economy.
i-0fa63402d782d892-477	Madam President, I would like Climate policy, economic distribution and equality are linked, Isabella Lövin. People who are rich cause much more emissions than people who have little money. If you increase their consumption, emissions increase. If you spend money on common welfare or public transport, emissions tend not to increase at all in the same way, or they can even decrease instead. The problem is that the budget of the Green Party and the government means increasing the private consumption of those with the highest income when you remove the military tax. This will increase their emissions while rolling over the costs of the regions. For example, the Green Party sits in West Sweden and in Stockholm and faces substantial increases in the price of public transport. It will be both less equality and probably more difficult to get rid of climate emissions because of it. Is that really wise climate policy?
i-0fa63402d782d892-479	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Sjöstedt, for an important question! I am very proud that the Green Party has fought for every climate reform that we have pushed through in the last five years. We've fought hard. We had to fight hard for the airline tax when, unfortunately, the Left Party was not helpful when we worked to get it through, and there were other parties here in the Swedish Parliament who wanted to convict ministers because we pushed it through. We have stood up for and got a broad support behind a climate law. There, as usual, the Left Party would reserve certain elements of the Climate Act. It is a prerequisite for us really changing the whole of society. I agree with Jonas Sjöstedt that we need to expand public transport and make it cheaper. It should be more expensive to let out. I also note that, in Jonas Sjöstedt's budget, you are not investing in any increased environmental taxes, but are investing in other reforms. You have to do both, Jonas Sjöstedt.
i-0fa63402d782d892-483	Madam President, I would like It is true that we have sometimes had a more ambitious policy than the government in the field of climate change. In the budget, we spend 10 billion more on the climate and, among other things, 6 billion on being able to have lower prices and better service in public transport. That is a complete contrast to what the Green Party is doing. In the Västra Götaland region, you have increased the price of public transport by 40 per cent. It's a huge increase. You sit in Stockholm with the bourgeois parties and also raise the price of the monthly card. It is a bad climate policy, and it is a very bad distribution policy. Then you take away the war tax for rich men in the big cities who can go on a weekend trip to or buy another car for the money. It is also bad climate policy. Equality and climate are interrelated. I believe that the Green Party, with its economic policy, is an obstacle to making the most of the resources we have.
i-0fa63402d782d892-486	Madam President, I would like I believe that Jonas Sjöstedt knows just as well as I do that the Green Party barely passed the parliamentary ban at the last elections. We are still in the government because we are souled by one thing, and that is to convert Sweden to fossil freedom. It has meant compromises. But it's about us wanting to make a workshop and make a real difference. No, we do not think that all parts of the January agreement are just as we would have liked them. But we also had just over 4 percent of the votes. At the same time, we have been behind and got through a historic investment on rail. We've got it through. We're still running a flight tax. We have the largest environmental and climate budget ever. I note that, when we worked with the Left Party, you put together what reforms you were most proud of, and there were over a hundred of them. At the time, almost no one at all except public transport was concerned with the environment or climate. That shows the difference between our two parties.
i-0fa63402d782d892-489	Madam President, I would like There is a clear and clear gap between city and country in some issues. There is a difference in perspective that partly results from different conditions that exist in different places, so it is no wonder. A concrete example of this is predatory policy. People living and working in parts of the country where the predators are growing often experience an almost contemptible response from some political representatives to the problems. Last week, the European Court of Justice made two points. Firstly, the Swedish and Finnish forms of licence hunting for predators are fully legal. Secondly, Sweden and other countries have the right to take account of the situation locally and regionally when deciding how to manage predators.
i-0fa63402d782d892-493	Madam President, I would like I can begin by saying that biodiversity worldwide is under extreme threat. The UN Panel on Biological Diversity came in the spring with a report that was an alarm report. We are now seeing an extinction of species that is quite exceptional in human history. In Sweden we want to protect tigers, leopards, lions and other exotic wild animals that we see in other parts of the world. But when it comes to our own predators, it sounds completely different. I am very pleased that we in the Swedish Parliament have agreed on a minimum stock level of wolves in Sweden. I am also very pleased that we have European directives saying that we should have favourable conservation status for our predators. This is exactly what the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is set to manage and the county administrative boards can decide on. This applies to both hunting and protective hunting. That is the administration we have.
i-0fa63402d782d892-497	Madam President, I would like What I am looking for is whether the Green Party will continue to discourage greater consideration of the local situation. Wolf and other predators are a real problem for many people living in predatory areas. Animal owners and hunters are constantly affected by new attacks. Understandably, some parents no longer dare to let their children sleep in the stroller in some of the areas where wolves are now stroking around the knot. Almost 50 per cent of the Swedish wolves are affected by Värmland. There have been earlier statements by the Green Party that have meant that this should not be taken into account in such cases. Sweden needs a responsible and sustainable predator policy that takes into account the people who live and work in those areas. It is not in contradiction to the fact that the strains should of course be genetically viable.
i-0fa63402d782d892-501	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by underlining very strongly that it is not the Green Party that decides on predatory policy. It is decided here in the Swedish Parliament. We have an agreement on a minimum tribe that is favorable conservation status for the wolf. It is our authorities that decide and the county boards ultimately decide on protection hunting, for example. It is clear that for the occasional predators who appear threatening or attack domestic animals, there is an opportunity to decide on a protection hunt. The Green Party is behind this. But we also support the need to live together with our wild animals. We can also note that if you compare how many wolves there are in Sweden or Scandinavia, there are far fewer than you live with in Spain, Romania or other countries in Europe. We also need to find coexistence.
i-0fa63402d782d892-505	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that there are more people in the gallery listening to the sprints in the debate than there are in the Chamber. Thank you for being here and listening today! I was a little worried when Isabella Lövin started talking about the percentage and the state of public opinion. It costs you to cooperate. You don't get exactly what you want all the time. I could ask for a reply on the subject of nuclear power, which we Liberals think is very good. We have a feeling that the energy agreement that exists is kind of like a hotel in California; if you have checked in, you can never check out. There will be a question for some in here: Can't you check out sometime so that we can get on with it? But this doesn't like Isabella Lövin and the Green Party, because you don't like Swedish nuclear energy very much. My question concerns the effect. Does the government feel that they are aware of the effect, that is, how we are to distribute energy throughout our country? It is correct that we produce more than we spend, but we must also have electricity in the right place at the right time. You can't just have the 7-Eleven open on Fridays when people have to big deal, right? Were you in on the parable?
i-0fa63402d782d892-509	Madam President, I would like Thank you for addressing this important issue by Johan Pehrson. I feel it is important that the Swedish people now understand the difference between power shortages and power shortages. We have no power shortage. We have an electricity surplus. We export to Finland. We have never had as much electricity surpluses in Sweden as we have right now. The lack of power is something else. It is about the fact that there are not enough electric cables going exactly to the places where some industries have asked if they can establish themselves. Then it is the energy companies that have not drawn enough electricity lines in the meantime. They charge large fees to their customers, but they haven't invested. We're working on behalf of the government to get this started. We are conducting a dialogue with the industry but also with the counties and county boards on how we can get a plan for the cables to be expanded. Then the problems will be solved, and both 7-Eleven and Ica Maxi will have electricity.
i-0fa63402d782d892-512	Madam President, I would like My illustration at the end got a little forced. But the point was that when many people have to shop, start the toaster or washing machine, shower hot or whatever it may be, it takes a lot of electricity. When the machines in the industries in Laxå and Pajala are to be started, a lot of electricity is needed. Then the electricity must be in place. As to whether the effect is affected, I would like to come back to this a little anxiety-charged with the fact that we are actually cooperating, because I think that perhaps we have contributed a little unnecessarily to this by imposing various forms of taxation on cogeneration. Is there anything that the Green Party could consider revising its opinion on? It could have an effect. The electricity surplus will decrease when we shut down Ringhals 1 and Ringhals 2. We build other things, but it's still production. But it can't affect the effect, because it's in the wrong place. Other measures are needed to ensure effectiveness. We Liberals really want to electrify Sweden, even the motorways. If we are to do this, we need an impact and an enormous amount of production capacity in the future, and then nuclear power plays a role.
i-0fa63402d782d892-516	Madam President, I would like That doesn't make any sense. Ringnecks 1 and 2 are closed because they are obsolete and because there is no economy in upgrading them. It is confirmed by the CEO of Vattenfall, so it is not political decisions that determine this. When this is done, we will still have an electricity surplus, because wind power is currently being built out at a huge rate. It's a Klondyke for wind energy investors right now with 80 billion in wind power. Wind power will account for 30 per cent of Sweden's electricity production within just a couple of years. Solar power is also coming up. Ikea soon sells solar panels in flat packs. Solar power has a potential of 10 percent. We will not have a shortage of electricity. If we are to invest in new nuclear power, we must subsidise it. There is no market; there are no companies that want to invest in nuclear power. But we have a problem when it comes to power transmission, and of course the government is working on this. It is insanely much cheaper than investing in new nuclear power, which is ready in 20 years' time and not within the few years we have left if we are to cope with the climate crisis.
i-BMc9WY9Zt1yyvUBwMbggst	Madam President, I would like I support our reservation in the SfU5 report under paragraph 2 on the age limit for increased pensions and adherence to a longer life. The government's proposal to introduce a general increase in the retirement age is not well thought out. As everyone knows, older people are not a homogeneous group, and the state of health is obviously very different depending on, for example, the occupational group and gender. There can be a huge difference in health between the one who has had a physical or psychologically burdensome job, perhaps for many years, and the one who has not. Unfortunately, the Swedes as a group have to work longer; it is true. But that does not mean that we should force nurses, carers, construction workers or plumbers, for example, who have often worked since they were teenagers, to work longer than they might be able to. The retirement age should therefore be characterised by a much greater degree of flexibility and it should be possible to work part-time, while maintaining employment protection, for those who wish to work longer. This would, on the one hand, increase the individual's pension income and, on the other hand, lead to more hours worked in the economy as a whole and, on the other hand, allow companies to retain the skills of the year-long workforce. There should be a fiscally very favourable pension saving that is not only aimed at those with higher incomes. This should, by extension, give the individual the opportunity to either retire earlier or to supplement the regular old-age pension. Of course, there must be this possibility for those who want and can save their own pensions in order to prolong their retirement life and enjoy their hobbies, and perhaps grandchildren, before their health is too bad for them to do so. Madam President, I would like It is positive that the age of the right to remain in employment will be raised to 68 years from 2020. The proposals on the possibility of an extension of the occupational injury rate and SGI-protection, i.e. sickness benefit-based income, during this period are therefore supported. It is negative to raise the age limit for when municipal services may be provided without prior needs testing, as the government is now proposing. Of course, this should not be done as it would mean a deterioration for those who need this service. The government's priorities speak for themselves. Instead of older people enjoying their pension after a long and often hard working life, the government would rather spend taxpayers' money on abolishing the military tax. Instead of the older people who are most vulnerable being sure to get safe and secure care when they need to, the government would rather spend taxpayers' money on those who are the most wealthy in our society. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats advocate volunteering and increased incentives for older people who want to remain in work to be able to do so. In this way we get an increased retirement age on average, without forcing people with worn-out bodies to work longer than they can. Then more older people who have the strength and willingness to continue working can contribute with the important skills and experience that would otherwise have been lost. In our Sweden, you should be able to retire safely after a long working life when age and body so require – or, by all means, choose to remain in the labour market if you want to and are able to do so.
i-0fa63402d782d892-532	Madam President, I would like For many who had planned to retire in the near future, today's announcement of an increased retirement age will be a cold shower. At the same time, the Social Democratic Government is choosing to lower the tax for rich men in Danderyd. When the military tax is removed, the most wealthy people, those who have already fixed a safe pension, get even more money. And it also happens after the current budget, which the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats voted for and which has already meant tax cuts to the rich and less to the welfare and all of us. It's a scandal. The Left Party is therefore opposed to the proposal to increase the retirement age. And we're far from alone. People can't even work for retirement today! The bodies run out. Unreasonably, as Bygg and Kommunal jointly called the proposal as late as yesterday. ♪ Let the last sweet years be the best in our lives ♪ does not apply to everyone. Madam President, I would like The gaps in working life are growing dramatically. We're getting older, they say, but it doesn't apply to everyone. The large class gaps have led to even a decline in the life expectancy of short-term educated women. For women who work in the care sector, for example, increased retirement age only means that they are allowed to work even longer of their shorter lives. It's not working! Dissatisfaction with current pension systems is already high. Every fourth person gets anxiety from getting home the orange envelope, and 13-year-olds feel they have to start saving money for their pension. That is a legitimate concern. Those who retire today will receive half their salary in retirement. The 70-talists will see their pensions fall below 45%, and the millennium generation will see their pensions fall below 40% of their pay. Madam President, I would like I'm sorry, but now I'm quoting, what the fuck do I get for the money? as former CEO of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise Leif Östling said the same year he earned over 36 million. Now, to say the least, he has been heard. The Social Democratic Government, with its co-operative colleagues, has arranged a substantial pocket money. Together with Volvo's CEO Martin Lundstedt, who will receive a tax reduction of 2 1⁄2 million a year, he can now be counted as the winner's side when the military tax is removed. But what do the rest of us get? What does my grandmother get after the years at the laundry? What does Göran get, who has worn out his body on the building? What does Ayla get, which has broken both the back and the hip with heavy lifting in the care? What's going to happen to my daughter and other people's daughters I'm afraid to think about. This is what it is all about. This is what lies in the balance. It is we who built the country who will pay when those who have already got more. It's shameful. Today we Swedes work the longest throughout Europe. At the same time, we are at the bottom of the issue of the level of pensions. We have the largest share of poor pensioners in the Nordic countries. Nearly half of all women who are old-age pensioners today have some guarantee pensions, i.e. the lowest state minimum. The increase in retirement age is claimed to result in higher pensions, but the increase is marginal. For people with regular wages, the extra years will hardly be noticed in the wallet. According to Kommunal's calculations, each individual worked year after the age of 66 gives only about SEK 150 more in the wallet for their members. Madam President, I would like The government wants to introduce a target age for pensions aimed at automatically adjusting pension ages. It's not a good road. Large differences in service life between different groups mean that an average increase or decrease in service life cannot automatically give an unpolitical verdict on the pension age we should have. The decision should normally be made here in the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like Let us say as it is: how can it even be on the map today to raise the retirement age? It is unrealistic to focus on raising the retirement age. There are too many of the population who are not in a position to work so far up in their ages. The trend is today, on the contrary, that working life is becoming increasingly tougher and that more people choose to retire earlier, despite the fact that it is economically very unfavorable. Then it is difficult to understand why the government does not choose to address that question instead. In a previous survey of 1,168 construction workers over the age of 55, nine out of ten say no to increased retirement age. More than every other person is unable to work until the new minimum retirement age. Eight out of ten have aches in their bodies. Göran Månsson, vvs-monter and trade union shop steward in Buildings, says in the article: A large part will not be able to work until the pension but may still go prematurely and go on guarantee pension, housing allowance and subsistence support even though they have worked a whole life. I've been working for 40 years, and there's a maximum of ten of them that's gone out of time," he says. The majority of municipalities today have part of their pension in the form of guarantee pension. In a survey conducted by Kommunal, you can read testimony from women who have retired early: My body is starting to hurt. It's a heavy job. A lot of lifts. The root of the problem of the pension system is that it is underfunded. That is the main reason why pensions are so low. It has a significantly greater impact than the retirement age. That's why you can work a whole life and still get a pension that's not more than half your salary. The Left Party believes that contributions to the pension system itself must be increased so that more people can receive an increased pension. The tax must also be equal regardless of where the income comes from. The tax gap between workers and pensioners should therefore be eliminated. It must be possible to live on your pension after an entire working life. Health insurance also needs to be improved, especially for the elderly. Today, Sweden has the toughest rules throughout the OECD. The Left Party is therefore of the opinion that a special age factor should be included in the sickness benefit, what was previously called a disability pension, which makes it easier to receive sickness benefit and that you do not have to take out your income pension early. For those who are forced to end their working life prematurely, there must be strong financial protection that does not reduce the future pension. We have also proposed an increase in the basis of the sickness and activity benefit of just over SEK 1 150 per month. Madam President, I would like The government justifies its proposals because the higher life expectancy poses challenges for welfare. The Left Party agrees that welfare has major problems but believes that it is best managed through increased spending on welfare, financial redistribution and extensive joint investment in future needs. The government's own calculations also point to very small effects of the proposals. The municipal sector does not seem to be affected at all, and the state budget is expected to receive an increase of between SEK 200 and 500 million per year between 2020 and 2022. When these modest contributions to the state budget are compared with the billion-dollar tax cuts that the government is going to bring to those who earn the most, it is difficult to see how the deficiencies in welfare can be addressed during this term of office. Madam President, I would like It was also Building and the Chairman of the Municipal Council who yesterday went out in a joint petition in Aftonbladet for today's debate in the Chamber. Together they represent over 600 000 members, and the average retirement age for them is 63 years. An increased retirement age for them does not mean that they can work longer but only that they become poorer. I became a disability pensioner before I was 65, had a worn - out body. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like We need to raise pensions, not retirement age. Parliament should therefore reject the bill. I commend our reservation.
i-0fa63402d782d892-555	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal in the committee's report and, therefore, for the government proposal. I meet a lot of people who have views on either their own pension, their future pension or on the pension system as such. The comments are about low pensions, a frustration about how to keep working all the way to retirement age or a fear that there will be no money in the system on the day you retire. I often respond to this by trying to explain how we think and how the system works, but I also agree with them. When I agree with them that they have too low pensions and that it should pay better, I also try to explain that there is a way forward. The system that we have for pensions is not destined to deliver poorer pensions all the time. We can change that. I think many people have too low a pension. In particular, people who have worked their whole lives in ordinary occupations that we heard are listed here before. You may have worked in health care or care as a nurse or assistant, and when you retire you receive a very low pension. I think those people have too low a pension. I also understand all those people who feel that they are unable to work until the 61st anniversary, which is today the day when they have the opportunity to retire. I understand the feeling and the concerns they have about their inability to work for further years. I understand that, especially when it comes to physical and psychologically exhausting work. I am not surprised that a lot of people are frustrated as we now make age adjustments to the pension system. I would have been, too, if this was all we did. If we in the Pensions Group had decided to raise the retirement age and nothing else and thought that everything about the pension system had been resolved by it, I would also have been worried. But this is not the only thing we do. And it is also the case that if we do not do this, it does not mean that it will work out and be good. The Swedish Democrats' reservation and speech argued that there are no homogeneous groups and that it needs to be a flexible retirement age. So are these decisions. But the fact is that if we do nothing, the system itself will mean that we receive lower and lower pensions because we live longer. We must dare to deal with this issue, because otherwise people will receive lower and lower pensions without doing anything here in Parliament. What we need to do and which is important for us Social Democrats is to attack what is at the root of the fact that pensions are too low, namely that we have an unequal and unequal working life. We cannot believe that we can go through the entire working life and accept the differences that exist and accept lots of work n where you get burned out prematurely and then believe that everything will work out when you reach retirement age. That's not gonna happen. The system is based on making money for your pension. Then we must also ensure that people have the opportunity to make money for their pension. It is a policy that we conduct in a government position that provides more money and more resources to municipalities and regions so that you can get more colleagues in health care and childcare and feel that you are enough and not stressed out at work. It is a question of having a conscious strategy for the health and safety at work that ensures that we attack the inaccuracies that exist in the workplace so that we deal with all the injustices that exist. That is why we are adding EUR 5 billion in the budget to the local government sector, for example. But we also have to do other things besides that. In addition to having a more sustainable working life, in addition to increasing equality in society and, in addition to tackling gender inequalities, we also need to do things about the pension system itself. We must do so in a way that both tackles the inequalities that exist in today's pension systems and also secures a pension system for the future. In the next debate, my fellow Member, Erica Nådin, will describe what we are doing with regard to basic pension protection, which is an important part that we are doing combined with this. We also want to move forward with other measures which, in the long term, will make it a more stable system. Ida Gabrielsson mentioned one of the, I would say, most important measures, namely increasing contributions to the pension system as such. On the side of the Social Democrats, we are also pushing this issue. But it does not replace age increases. The risk would have been that we would have had a situation where we would take action and increase the payments, but those who retire would see that there would be nothing extra. We have to do both. We must increase the guarantee pension and increase the payments to the scheme, but we must also say that if you live longer, you must also work more years to earn your pension. That is the foundation of our entire pension system. I think that sometimes in the debates it is like fooling people when one does not recognise this problem that exists, that is, if we have fewer years to earn money for our pension, the pension will also be smaller because we have more years to take it out on. We must recognise that logic, and we must have the courage to make decisions. The report contains two reservations which I would like to comment on. The first one is from the Left Party. I shall say that I sympathise very much with that reservation, and I do so because it talks about what is at the heart of this, that is to say, working life. As long as we have an unequal and unequal working life, we will see unequal and unequal pensions. We need to focus more on getting the money into welfare and making sure that there are more colleagues and more decent working environments and that we have health insurance that allows people to quickly get back to work and avoid long periods of sick leave. With regard to the second part, which is about not having a rich age according to the model now proposed, I share the government's assessment. I think we need such a rich age, and I think we can actually say that we have such a rich age today but that we do not really tell about it. There is actually an age when you can retire and still get a good pension for the rest of your life. If you retire too early, your pension will be too low, but we don't really tell people that. It is more honest to tell people that this will be the case, especially if we live longer. The advantage of a rich age according to this model is that we are also based on the other insurance schemes linked to the guidelines age so that the Employment Protection Act and other schemes follow the guidelines age. Then we increase the security of those who work higher up in their ages. There is another reservation, which comes from the Swedish Democrats, which makes me a little more worried about. There is some reasoning, which is also contained in the Left's reservation, that it is not a homogeneous group and that health is divided. There's a point to that. However, it should be clear that the negative effects are also evident today. If nothing is done about it, there are still differences between those who retire. The part of the Swedish Democrats' reservation that worries me more is that they are beginning to talk about part-time work. I understand that in the reservation it is a question of working part-time after you have retired and that this will enable you to supplement. However, I believe that part-time work and the norm that part-time work has almost become in female occupations are a major part of the problem. I rather think that we should move towards full time being the norm in the Swedish labour market. This has been the case for a long time in all classically large male-dominated professions. But in some way it has been said for women-dominated occupational groups that this part-time thing is probably okay. It turns out in the pensions. The more part-time you work, the worse the outcome of your pension. We need to get to grips with that. Otherwise, we will again lock women in a situation where later in life they will have to pay for the responsibility they have taken for their homes and children. For us Social Democrats, it is important that pension can be a good part of life and not something one looks forward to with concern or horror. That is why it is one of our top priorities. That is why we have gradually removed the unfair pension tax. That is why we are raising the basic level of protection for pensioners. That is why we want to raise pensions for those who have worked a whole life in ordinary working professions or who are in slightly lower income groups. That is why we also want to increase the provision for pensions, so that future pensioners will receive a much better pension than today's. Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-0fa63402d782d892-576	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Rikard Larsson. What Rikard Larsson described is important. We must have a stable working life with secure employment and the opportunity to work and to work full-time. We must have a working life that works for everyone, no matter where you are and whether you work as a cleaning lady or are the CEO of Volvo Trucks. I'd like to ask Rikard Larsson if they don't start at the wrong end. We see that the government's policy today means that the Employment Service is basically no longer in existence and that the government has agreed to loosen labour law. We do not see any proposals for the right to full-time, to overcome the split tours or to increase employment in welfare. Instead, the government has invested twice as much as we do in our budget in lowering or removing the defence tax for the very richest. Instead, we are investing in giving pensioners who have at least one thousand more a month. So the question is: Has Rikard Larsson not started in the wrong order?
i-0fa63402d782d892-580	Madam President, I would like No, I haven't started in the wrong order. I have begun, my party has begun and the Pensions Group has begun. The worst thing we could have done is not to start. This would not have meant that pensions would have improved. This would have meant that, while life expectancy would have increased, we would have eroded the pensions that people receive, whether they retire at 62, 63, 64 or 65 years of age. Sitting still on this issue would be the worst option. It's supposed to be boring the pensions. When it comes to what to start with and what you would like to start with, there are a lot of things. It's about job security. During the last parliamentary term, we took initiatives on temporary employment, precarious employment and hourly employment. There's a lot of things we'd like to get away from there. With regard to the defence tax, I think Ida Gabrielsson knows that my party, the Social Democrats, is not a big supporter of removing it. But we made the same assessment as the Left Party; we also made the assessment that a January agreement was a better option than that the Moderates and Christian Democrats had to form a government with the support of the Swedish Democrats. We Social Democrats made that choice. When the Left Party had seen the January Agreement and what that policy would mean, the Left Party, if we are to be honest, also made the assessment that it was better to release a government that had concluded the January Agreement than the alternative. I would have liked the budget we are now presenting not to have contained the removal of the military tax and instead to have put that money on something else. But when agreements are made and agreements reached, it is important to stick to them. Otherwise, your credibility in future collaborations disappears.
i-0fa63402d782d892-584	Madam President, I would like As Rikard Larsson probably knows, part of the agreement meant that the Left Party is not in it. The Left Party therefore feels that we are free to put forward a budget in which we retain the defence tax, so that we can invest in increasing pensions for the most deprived and the welfare. The question is why the Social Democrats and the Pensions Group do not go forward with raising contributions to the pension system. A simple example of calculation is: If you were to ensure that pension contributions above the income ceiling went straight into the common pension collective, it could add about SEK 900 more a month for all who earn less than 40,000. With the proposal to raise the retirement age, it was probably around the dog ring for those who had regular jobs. My question, however, is: Is it not a bit too strong to say to municipal workers and construction workers that today we are starting to raise the retirement age, before we have fixed the decent working lives, looked at how we can get more money into the system as a whole and how we can distribute the money that is in the system more equally?
i-0fa63402d782d892-587	Madam President, I would like I've been trying to explain that we don't either. We do both. But we have to do it at the same time. To sit still and wait for some other kind of solution to emerge would have meant that pensions would have deteriorated. The number of calls I receive on pensions had increased from people who had realised that the more life expectancy is increasing, the more we lose out on pensions for future pensioners. It had been discovered. That's why we need to do both. I'm not saying Ida Gabrielsson is wrong. She's right. I think that these measures should be taken. That is why we will also lift the proposal for increased charges – it is part of our policy – along with strengthened basic protection. We want a higher pension for those who have worked their whole lives, as nurses and carers, which we also discuss in the Pensions Group. So it's not either or. We have to do both. I do not mean that the Left Party should not present its own draft budget. I really think that the Left Party should present its own draft budget. It is great that the Left Party raises difficult issues where we might want to go in a different direction but where, because of the majority in this House, it does not look that way. I simply note that we probably came to the same conclusion: that the alternative to the government we have now was worse.
i-0fa63402d782d892-590	Madam President, I would like Either Mr Larsson has not read our reservation in the report properly, or he chooses to slip the truth that so often happens when the Social Democrats are in the pulpit. If you are going to stick to reality, as we Swedish democrats are interested in doing, the part-time that the honourable Member refers to when you want to degress into working life when you are at retirement age but still want to work. This is what our reservation is about, nothing else. Full time as the norm is not affected at all in the reservation. It should be known to the Social Democrats and the Member in question what line we in the Swedish Democrats are in. Let us look at the pension system as a whole. It can be seen as a sad child. We are now in a situation where people will work longer so that more people who have not contributed themselves can get a piece of the cake.
i-0fa63402d782d892-593	Madam President, I would like The last thing that was raised is not really true. The pension system doesn't work that way. It works in such a way that you earn into your own pension. It's in relation to what you've earned. The attempt to argue that the pension is lower because we give money to someone else, I don't buy. It is about a group that for many is diffuse, but for the Swedish Democrats it is often clear which group they are talking about. I think the reasoning is a little dishonest. I also made it clear in my speech that I do not believe that the Swedish democrats mean part-time work, but after working life. I have been working on these issues on the employers' side of health care for a long time. And my point was that I have seen how we have discussed everything from the desired employment rate to how to get an offer to get up on time. In my experience, we have had too long part-time as a concept in women-dominated occupations. Now they bake it into the time after retirement and say that it should be possible to work part-time, and I think it signals that part-time workers are part of the solution in the pension system. It is possible that it could be in the long term, but in my view it is important that we clearly say that part-time is a problem for the pension system. Let us deal with this issue first, for we have not quite done so yet. The first point raised by the honourable Member was that I or we should slip on the truth. I should like to ask: at what point does the honourable Member think I have been basking on the truth?
i-0fa63402d782d892-597	Madam President, I would like I said in my previous speech that it was about the Social Democrats as a whole, and I referred mainly to today's recent party leader debate. As far as pension credits are concerned, today we have a system in which points can be credited and years in which we have not even been in our country at all. So not a single crown has been contributed to this system. It is an underfunded system, as we and the Social Democrats know. Fewer people should work longer so that more people can take part of the cake. I understand that people are worried and worried about the rise in age. Today it is an increase from 61 to 62 years. But, Madam President, the increase does not stop with it, it is a gradual increase that will last for years to come. It does not stop at the age of 62, but it will continue to rise as and when.
i-0fa63402d782d892-600	Madam President, I would like I would point out that I would probably not have had the truth, and I think it would be good if we stick to the debates we are holding here. Of course we can debate something else or take up after other debates, but I think these issues are important enough for us to focus on them now. Let's do it together. As I suspected, the Swedish Democrats wanted to come up with a specific question and what it is about: those who take the money from pensioners. However, the so-called refugee exemption does not automatically raise the pension for others. The removal of the refugee derogation does not mean that the assistant nurse receives a higher pension. It would do so if you chose to reallocate the money, but the system does not work so that you either have a refugee exemption and give guarantee pension to those who have fled from war and misery and have come here, or the assistant nurse receives a higher pension. That's not how the pension system works. If we are to tackle the problems that we have in the pension system, we must take concrete decisions. You can either increase the contributions, add an extra supplement, raise the retirement age, introduce a rich age or increase the guarantee pensions, or you do as we Social Democrats want and combine all of this. Then we'll get better pensions for everyone, no matter where you were born, if you've run away or if you've worked here all your life. It's important that we don't start sifting out people.
i-0fa63402d782d892-603	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. Pensions are a constant topic of debate among both younger and older people. You can be worried about yourself. Is the money going to be enough? You can be worried about your children. What's their pension gonna be? Many do not understand that it is work and only work that makes it possible to get a higher and better pension. The more years you are in work, the higher your pension will be. A long-known fact is that ever-increasing average life expectancy leads to lower pensions if we continue to have an unchanged retirement age. The pension rights earned would be paid for a longer period of time. I would like to pay tribute to the previous speaker who has just stressed the need to work longer. I am therefore pleased that we have now reached the important decision that we are going to take today. An unknown fact is that if you wait to withdraw your pension from, for example, 61 to 64 years of age, your pension will be 18 percent higher throughout your life. This is 5 – 7 per cent per year as the pension is now developing. In addition, if you work during these years and even longer you get even higher pensions. Another fact is that Sweden needs the skills available in the age groups that are now retiring. It screams for teachers, nurses, nurses, engineers, doctors, carpenters, and plumbers. In all these professions there is a shortage. Encouraging healthy and alert seniors to continue working a little more is one of our most important challenges. Then, of course, we must also remove the obstacles so that they can actually work. It is said that today's 70-year-olds are yesterday's 50-year-olds. I'm sure there's something to it. Reducing taxes on the person who works is making it cheaper to hire a senior. It would be an incentive to make more people want to work well up in the years. With more left in your wallet, you can also have a richer old age. In addition, more and more seniors are working beyond the pension limit. In the 21st century, the number of senior workers in work has doubled. I am talking about those who are 65-plus. There are even those who claim that it is actually better for health to work when you are older than to retire prematurely. The remaining life expectancy after the age of 65 was in 1994 when the current pension system was introduced, on average 18 years for men and women. You thought it would be like that and then flatten out, but it hasn't. The actual increase is much faster than ever expected. Today we live on average ten years longer than we did in the 1950s. Population development is going very fast in this way. In 2035, in only 16 years, women's average life expectancy is expected to be 88 years. We are becoming more and more old, and that curve continues upwards. In just a few years' time, the number of people aged 80 to 89 is expected to be 60 percent higher than today. It is the large children's groups from the 40s and 50s that then come up in that age. You live and have good health longer and longer. Madam President, I would like In order to maintain pension levels, we Moderates have long maintained the need to work longer. It was never intended from the beginning when a general pension was introduced that you should work 40 – 50 years and then live 30 – 35 years on pension. Indeed, when the general pension was introduced, the average life expectancy was lower than the retirement age. It is gratifying that we have managed to get together in the Pensions Group and agree that working life must be extended in line with increased life expectancy. I think that Rikard Larsson made this very well in his speech. This is of course important not only for the pension system, but also for the entire welfare system and society as a whole. That is why it is of course also crucial that we have a working environment and working conditions that enable the elderly to cope and continue working. We need to get rid of age discrimination. We also need to change our attitude towards older people at work. You don't want older people. You'd rather hire a new one. We can't have that if we're going to keep working anymore. In fact, there is a great need for the skills and experience that go home when people retire. You may not be able to work full time. You may not be able to work in the same way with the same tasks. We have heard here before that it is described that there are jobs where it is very hard to work. But then let us make sure that you can get other jobs but remain in work. That's the most important thing. It is important that employers, trade unions and others ensure that we can have a much more flexible working life, especially when we get older. It is also important to point out that the majority of those who have retired at the age of 61 continue to work. They charge the general pension to supplement their finances. In fact, at the age of 63, two thirds of those who have retired at the age of 61 continue to work. However, it is not only the end of working life that is crucial to the way pensions are made, although it is very important. It's also a question of when you get into work. Sweden has exceptionally high age of establishment when we compare internationally. If we can get the young people to start working some year earlier and finish their studies some year earlier is very much won at the end. In conclusion, today we are going to decide on the pension agreement. The decision was made in December 2017: We raise our retirement age according to a stairway. We also raise the age of guidance, which should automatically follow the average age. I think that is a very clever way to avoid having these discussions every year about the age we should have for retirement. As far as the right to remain in work is concerned, it is very important to raise the age of LAS. Increasing the retirement age is a necessary development when we live ever longer and become healthier in the early years. We know that there are many people who want to work but who today are prevented from working. In municipalities and in the state, you have to go home at the age of 67 as it stands today. We want everyone who wants and can work to continue to do so.
i-0fa63402d782d892-620	Madam President, I would like My questions to the Moderates and Katarina Brännström are: What do you have to say to the people who are in the category I described, where life expectancy is falling? What equality measures will Katarina Brännström and the Moderates come up with that make their retirement time a good time, so that they not only survive but also live?
i-0fa63402d782d892-621	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. That question should be asked today. We can see that there are such problems. There are people who don't have the energy to work as long as we expected them to. We have not solved this with the current retirement age, and it will probably not be resolved if you raise the retirement age either. These are completely different measures, which have to do with health, public health and help in the meantime at work. Quitting smoking is an important reason why we are getting older and healthier. Unfortunately, in some groups, smoking, for example, means that you do not have the energy to continue working as long as you should. It is very important that business health, employers, trade unions and everyone else who can influence the working life also do so and that it is designed in a way that makes it easier for everyone to work. Today it is not the elderly who are most sick, but the younger ones. It is the mental diagnoses and stress that make a lot of people unable to stay at work. That is why we need to look at working life all the way. It's really important. There it has broken so far, and there will be no quick fix in the future either.
i-0fa63402d782d892-623	Madam President, I would like Eight out of ten have aches in their bodies. Katarina Brännström talks about smoking. The Left Party believes that this is about the workplace and work throughout life. You have been younger if you then get older. If you have worked at a laundry as my grandmother or as a cleaning lady as my grandmother, there are reasons why you are worn out at an earlier age than if you, for example, have worked in the Riksdag or as CEO of Volvo Trucks. I would like to ask Katarina Brännström: If Katarina herself sees that these measures will not lead to that group getting better, why not supplement with other things? After all, an increased retirement age will only make this group poorer and increasingly worn out. Will Katarina Brännström and the Moderates put forward efforts on increased guarantee pensions and a more equal distribution within the pension system, or will Katarina Brännström do like everyone else – remove the defence tax for those who already have and ignore those who have had long working lives but have not even managed to work to the retirement age that we have today and therefore become poor pensioners or have relatives and friends in that situation?
i-0fa63402d782d892-625	Madam President, I would like What Ida Gabrielsson talks about has nothing to do with an increased retirement age. If people are ill, have pain in the body and are unable to work during their working life, that is to say before retirement, there must of course be many measures already today. This is particularly true of mental illness. That is what I said in my last speech. The fact remains – we are living longer and longer. Maybe we're the healthiest people in the world if we take it out on the whole. We must have a pension system that goes with what concerns the large group. The fact that we then have people who are sick is an issue we have to solve separately. Helping those people to get healthy and to be able to work as much as they can work is also important. Maybe you can't do the same things. You may not be able to work as long or full time, but you might be at work doing something. For those people, it is only work that leads to higher pensions. Otherwise, we'll have to talk about another supply system. This concerns us in a later case today regarding increased basic protection. But then we also risk that those who work and have worked will not get much more than those who have not worked. This is also a matter for us in here to take a position on. This applies to the so-called distance of respect, and it is important to remember in this context. It must pay more to work, and it must also be so that you can get help to work as long as possible.
i-0fa63402d782d892-628	Madam President, I would like Higher retirement age is something we have been discussing for a very long time. You have already heard what it means to increase the retirement age and the rules that apply to it. Many people feel – and express – that this comes up. They have not got used to this or known that we are going to raise the retirement age. That's why I'm going to take you on a story so you can understand that this isn't going to come as a sneeze. It was on 14 April 2011 that we in the Pensions Group appointed the Pension Age Investigation, whose report forms the basis for what we are about to decide on. Quite exactly two years later, the investigation was completed. The report was entitled Measures for a longer working life. The proposals were clear. Life expectancy increased, as we have heard here several times. Then the pension would be paid out for a much longer period of time. That was the reason for this. The current Pensions Group assumed responsibility for managing the pension system implemented in 1994, as we have also heard in the past. We formally took it over in 2008. Then we got something that we call a will on how to manage and develop our pension system so that it is consistent with the needs that exist now and in the future. Already in 2008, the so-called will stated that the retirement age needed to be higher – the age of retirement. We in the Pensions Group appointed several investigations and developed knowledge about why and how to increase the retirement age but also how to strengthen the pension system in other ways. Based on these various studies and this knowledge, it was concluded that improvements were needed in the so-called balancing process. We needed to see improvements in AP funds' ability to get more returns. The same was true of the premium pension scheme. How could it get better and give more money? And how could we contribute to a longer working life? In addition, the programme on these points that we presented in 2014 stated that we would have a dialogue with the parties – and now I am addressing the Left Party in particular – so that they would help people to have a longer working life. In any case, these points were further developed. It was in December 2017 that we presented the nine-point programme on how to improve our pension system. There was also the retirement age. In this context, I would like to say, we also presented the need to increase the guarantee pension. We'll deal with that a little later, as I said. We've fixed the balance. The AP funds and the returns of premium pensions will soon be proposed, which we will decide on here in Parliament. There is dialogue with the parties and they are, of course, willing and interested to participate. Then one might wonder: Why do we need to contribute to raising the retirement age? There are some who believe that we need to review the pension system in general. Then I hope they have listened to what I have said. We have looked at this backwards and forwards and upside down. We have done everything we can to find out what we can do, and this will continue. It's taken 11 years from thought to action. It took that time before we decided to raise the retirement age. Is that good or bad, Madam President? I and the Center Party are proud that we can present this proposal today. More people need to work. We need to make use of the skills of the elderly – we have heard this here. Above all, this is a way of strengthening our pension system, so that in the long term we can continue to have between 60% and 70% of our salary. I am surprised that the Left Party, as I understand it, still wants to maintain that the pension system we have today is not good. The Left Party rejects the committee's proposal in the report on the increase in retirement age and age. Instead, they want to invest in the welfare system where that money is to be taken from. It is not said that it is from the Treasury, that is, the money that we spend on child benefit, sickness benefit, parental benefit, assistance allowance – yes, what is our financial security system. After all, these allowances change depending on which government there is. But our pension system cannot be changing year after year. Let me be clear! We need to know that pension systems will operate for a long time. It's supposed to give us some security, so that we know that the day we stop working, we get a pension. In addition, everyone who works collectively contributes to a better pension. Our joint provisions from our working life go to retirement. It's so easy to work part-time you get less. Of course, you work full time. If you work longer, you will also get more money for the system and for our common pensions. It's as simple as that. Madam President, I would like Today's decision to raise the retirement age in the way we have proposed is by far the best decision we can take. I therefore call for reservations to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved in the report.
i-0fa63402d782d892-641	Madam President, I would like My question to Solveig Zander is whether she believes that what has been highlighted by, for example, the parties Kommunal and Building are not true. Municipal has calculated that an extra job year after the age of 66 would only give their members a few hundred crowns more a month. Does Solveig Zander mean that it is a wrong conclusion, or how does Solveig Zander want to see it? Then I can calm Solveig Zanders's concerns. There will be no money from sick people, LSS or anything like that for pensions. We can afford to finance a fair and fair LSS and health care while at the same time being able to have decent and reasonable pensions. The Left Party does not intend to remove the military tax, which is twice as expensive as the Left Party's proposal for increased guarantee pensions in this year's budget. My thinking to Solveig Zander is whether she would consider increasing equality in the system by, for example, examining the possibility of using pension contributions that are above the income ceiling and allowing them to enter the pension collective and, if so, perhaps you would consider reintroducing the military tax. I would also like to ask Solveig Zander if she thinks that raising payments to the system itself might have been preferable to further poor pensioners because the group we are talking about is not going to be able to work anymore. They are already unable to work until retirement. How does Solveig Zander respond to that?
i-0fa63402d782d892-645	Madam President, I would like There were many questions from Ida Gabrielsson and the Left Party. I'll do the best I can to answer them. When LO says it would mean SEK 100 more per month if you worked a year longer, I wonder what part of the pension they mean. Is it the general pension or the occupational pension? Or is it about how to withdraw your pension, for example under five years of age or life-long? I would like to look a little more constructively at what is said by LO before I answer that question, because I do not think that is true. Then there was the matter of not taking from tax money, from LSS and from child benefits and things that Ida Gabrielsson said I claimed. If I am not mistaken, the Left Party, together with the Social Democrats, ruled when the possibilities for people to get assistance were reduced. It was during the last parliamentary term and not during this, so as far as that part is concerned, I think you should look at your own house before you say anything. When it comes to more money for the system, it is an interesting part, because of course you can do that in many different ways. You can make it possible to pay more if you have crossed the border, so to speak. But you can also reinforce it in other ways, and I thought that I made it very clear when I said that we should help us get more money out of our AP funds, where our pension money is placed, and also get more money out of the premium pension, where we also invest our money.
i-0fa63402d782d892-649	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Solveig Zander! Perhaps we can start by ensuring that the premium pension is not lost, so we have a good start of 150 million or something. The system that we have today and which you are all defending is, of course, a system that gives the least to those who have the worst. What I told you about was that Kommunal has looked at what it would give their members. Already today, a large proportion of them are partly on guarantee pension even though they have worked their whole lives as health care workers and nurses. It is they who would earn only a few hundred quid if they were able to work extra years after the age of 66, which this group does not. That is why it would only mean even more poor pensions for large groups in our labour market, and I think that is completely unreasonable. The claim that the Left Party would have done one or the other in the previous period is not true at all. We were one of those who most clearly fought for the LSS, and we also say in the draft budget we have today that we think that the investigation should be scrapped and that we are prepared to finance a very large reconstruction of the LSS if necessary. What it's all about is if you think that money should go to those who are already doing well. Volvo's CEO, who already has a very large salary, receives 2 1⁄2 million extra per year with the draft budget that you are presenting. Why, Solveig Zander, is that money not being used instead to strengthen for the pensioners who have the worst? Why do you only go forward with an increased retirement age and not an improved pension for pensioners?
i-0fa63402d782d892-653	Madam President, I would like I apologize for saying LO and not Kommunal in the last reply to the Left Party. But in order for people who have a low salary and are no longer able to work to receive a higher pension, it is important that more people who can work longer do so, because our system is collective. Even if you only have a guarantee pension, and that is a low amount, you actually get, if you have worked, part of what others have been involved in paying in. That more people who can work longer should do so is therefore the basis for everyone to get a better pension. When it comes to losing the premium pension, no human being in our country wants to have criminal forces in the fund square, as it is said. We took immediate action there a couple of three years ago when this came to light. We stopped this and re-established the regulatory framework, and in a few months' time, a major study will be made of how premium pensions will be even stronger. There should be fewer funds, there should be the possibility of placing the money in a different way and there should also be checks on how it is managed. I have to apologize if I miss answering something here. However, I would like to suggest that the Left Party and Ida Gabrielsson read about our pension system. Because it is much better and contains far more positive things than those you have missed.
i-0fa63402d782d892-656	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to approve the proposal on the raising of age limits for earnings-related old-age pensions and the introduction of the concept of a target age for pensions. This bill is based on an agreement that we met in the Pensions Group. Now I have heard the new minister say that this is about the January agreement, and earlier I even heard the Prime Minister stumble and say that all of what we are now going to decide on today is thanks to the January agreement. This is not the case; it is in the Pensions Group, where all parties except the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats are represented, that the agreements have been made for so many years, as Solveig Zander could clearly say. We are living longer and that is a problem when it comes to making pensions adequate. They should not only be enough but also give us all that level that we actually expected would be the day we retire. I have three boys. Two of them have moved out and started working. The long-term perspective, I would say, is one of the strongest reasons why I am pleased that we are making this decision today. We must have a pension system that is not only good when I retire in perhaps 20 years' time, but also for my three boys when they retire. It must be sustainable in the long term. This is why we need to raise age. That is why we also have a rich age so that we can compensate for this. If we do nothing, every generation will receive ever lower pensions. Then there is a battery with other measures that we will also take. Rikard Larsson has also shown in a fine way that this is not the only question, but it is a number of different decisions that are now being put forward here today. In the near future, further decisions will be taken. Madam President, I would like There is an old myth– I have met it in the last few weeks until today's decision– claiming, despite the lack of evidence for it, that the elderly stand in the way of the younger, i.e. that if the elderly remain in work, it becomes more difficult for young people to enter the labour market. That's not true. The truth is rather the opposite. Studies carried out among OECD countries and US states show that where there is a high employment rate among older people, the employment rate among younger people is also higher. Trying to maintain senior workers with all the experience there is something we should strive for. But the number of jobs is not, and will never be, static. I am still very pleased that the Moderates and Christian Democrats put forward a proposal to remove the special salary tax for the elderly, and the proposal won the support of the Riksdag thanks to the Swedish Democrats. On 1 July this year, the special wage tax was passed on to the history books, and I hope it will never return. The truth is, we need to do better to keep senior workers. It should not be more expensive to retain experience and knowledge. We know today that although unemployment is rising, during a boom, there is at the same time a shortage of labour. Maintaining senior workers is crucial to solving that equation. We Christian Democrats are also putting forward a proposal that will encourage even more by increasing the tax credit for those over 69 years of age who want, can and can remain in work. Several speakers have said that it is important that when we talk about raising the age limit – the age limit – not for a moment forget that in parallel we must work to ensure that the working environment and working conditions are as good as possible. The possibility of working further up the years should not be available only for a particular group of people or for certain professions – because we know that some professions are more vulnerable. The aim must be that when we make the adjustments to the pension system, we keep the working environment and working conditions under cover and make them even better. I support the committee's proposal.
i-0fa63402d782d892-669	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the proposal in the report. Then I would like to mention the important point that Mr Zander outlined, namely the history, how this proposal has emerged. This increases our understanding of why we are where we are today. There are many who criticise that there has been a lack of transparency in the process, and I think it is important for this process to be marketed. I also believe that it is important to back down even further in history to understand the problems and issues that exist today. Let us remember that when the pension system was introduced in 1913, no one thought that today we would live a quarter of a century longer. Then we said that we could afford to pay a pension to 2% of the population. If we had thought that we would live a quarter of a century longer today, we would probably have put in an opportunity to adjust based on increasing life expectancy. But the realization that we are getting healthier and healthier was not even in 1976 when we lowered the retirement age from 67 to 65 years. Nevertheless, we had experienced childbirth in the 1940s, and we should have seen in the crystal ball that age will be a problem in the future. The awakening took place in the 80s, when we realized that the ATP system would fail. The decision-making anxiety was fundamental from various quarters. But it was only in 1991 with the then alliance government that an investigation was set up, which landed in parliamentary decisions in 1998. We saw that we had to raise the retirement age from 65 to 67 years. We were then able to enjoy a financially stable pension system. But it is not financially stable for the individual. This has proved to be the case in future when the brake has struck that it was not an eternal growth we had ahead of us in the Swedish economy. Then, as Mr Solveig has explained, the issue was taken seriously. I'm not gonna go into that right now. Rich age is excellent. Then people know what will happen in the future, and they can plan for this in good time. But it is important that the pension system is on the school schedule. They need a degree of knowledge of how it works with the general pension, with the premium pension and with the occupational pension. They're going to see the whole package. What we are discussing today is about what the state and parliament are over. It is important for young people to plan and do the right thing when they leave school. Many have no idea – I can tell when I ask my own family. The criticism that is being raised here is about how everyone who is not able to work until 61 or, as it is now, to 62 years of age. That, of course, is a problem. Here it is a question of changing the working environment and that there must be training and education opportunities for people in heavy jobs who need to shift to something where they are able to work higher up the age range. We need to strengthen occupational health care, and we need to raise the status of occupational medicine. There are a number of such things that have to be done but which are outside the pension system itself. As far as heavy jobs are concerned, all the technologies that are being developed must start to be used. Last Friday there was a fantastic seminar in the First Chamber of Parliament on technology in elderly care. I believe that here we can facilitate the work of those who work in home care and home care and make it safer and better for those who need the efforts and their relatives. Here we have to keep up with and evaluate what is good and detach what is less good. It will be a win-win situation, and there are opportunities here that we must seize. The Senior Labour Delegation produces one report after another. The latest is about the change in working life for people who continue to work after the age of 67. The proportion is increasing significantly. In agriculture four-fifths continue to work. The worst is in the state, but it is better in the business sector as well as in municipalities and county councils. I would, of course, like the state to be a forerunner by opening up working life to more 67-plusers, as a model and thereby also combating the ageism and discrimination that we see here. There are many things we can do here in the future, and I think we should take care of them and open up for light in the tunnel. At the same time, we should not forget that there are almost 300 000 people who are so-called EU-poor pensioners and that somewhere around two thirds of them are women. But these are old sins, and we will describe in the next debate how we are gradually trying to improve the economic situation for them. That being said, although there is much to be said on this issue, I think I am rounding it off.
i-0fa63402d782d892-682	Madam President, I would like The proposal proposes, among other things, that the basic level of the guarantee pension be increased by up to SEK 200 per month and that the housing cost ceiling in the housing supplement to pensioners be raised from SEK 5 600 to SEK 7 000 per month. The Left Party welcomes the improvement in basic protection for pensioners, but at the same time sees that these proposals are insufficient to provide the security that Swedish pensioners need and deserve. The current pension system is unpredictable and creates insecurity for people. We believe that our common pension system should be designed in such a way that it provides financial conditions for a dignified life when working life is completed. The Left Party will come back with more suggestions on how to construct a fairer pension system. Madam President, I would like The Left Party has for a long time been pushing for an increased guarantee pension. The gaps in Sweden are growing as a result of an economic policy that benefits a few at the expense of all of us. The pension system is part of that policy. Over 300 000 Swedish pensioners are at risk of falling below the EU poverty line. Every other woman who has worked her entire career receives such a low pension that she is forced to apply for a guarantee pension. The guarantee pension is now designed so that those who live on it have fallen behind the rest of the population. Since it was introduced in 2003, pensioners with guarantee pensions have on average had a real income increase of 15% compared with 45% for those who work. Madam President, I would like These are people we are talking about, and most of them are women. In Expressen a while ago, some of these women described their everyday life. I can't afford to eat fish," says Jeniffer, 66. I only buy Christmas gifts for my grandchildren every five years," says Eva, 76. I wish I could have a little more fun for my savings than just survive," says Kerstin, 66. Madam President, I would like To fill the large gaps between those living on guarantee pensions and the rest of the population, a substantial increase in guarantee pensions is required. The Left Party believes that pensioners should not have to risk poverty and that the income development of the whole group must in the long term keep pace with the general wage trend. We propose an increase in the guarantee pension of SEK 1 000 per month as a first step. Madam President, I would like The government is creating greater inequality, because, while doing far too little for pensioners, it is lowering taxes for the already rich. In the budget, the removal of the military tax costs just over 6 billion per year. For just over half that amount, we could have accepted our proposal today and given substantial increases in pensions to those who built up our country. But the seniors get a couple hundred bucks. The government therefore prefers, for example, to give Volvo's CEO Martin Lundstedt a tax reduction of 2.5 million per year. The Minister of Finance himself will earn 45 000 a year and will then win hardly before the defenseman of the military tax abolition number one, Nyamko Sabuni, who receives 43 000 in reduced tax. This also happens after the current budget voted by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, which has meant major tax cuts for the rich and less for the welfare and all of us. Instead, the money could have gone to the point that at least someone could have given their grandson a Christmas present, had to eat a little better food, had to live and not just survive. But what is said — each one is closest to himself? To sum up, Madam President, the Left Party wants to raise pensions, not retirement age. Today, the general pension contribution is about 17% on wages below 40,000 a month. Higher incomes are often higher insured with contributions of 30% through a contract pension. It is therefore reasonable that the contribution, and hence the pension, should be increased primarily for those with wages below 40 000. In order to increase the equality of systems, we want to examine the possibility of using pension contributions above the income ceiling. They should be able to go back to the collective pension collective. As I said earlier, a quick example of calculation shows that what we are proposing today could raise pensions further by an average of SEK 900 a month for all those who earn less than 40 000. We want to cover for the coincidences of life. In order not to lose from being unemployed, caring for children or being ill, pension rights should be counted on the underlying salary rather than on the benefits. The tax must be equal regardless of whether you work or are retired. The tax gap between workers, sick people and pensioners is to be eliminated. The ceiling of the housing allowance for pensioners should be increased and should also include those with sickness and activity benefits. According to our draft budget, the basis of the sickness and activity allowance, what is called a disability pension, is to be increased by more than SEK 1 150 per month. We want to increase the guarantee pension by SEK 1 000 per month already this year. It will primarily benefit working women. Madam President, I would like Pensioners deserve better. I therefore support our reservation 1 in paragraph 1.
i-0fa63402d782d892-702	Madam President, I would like At last, what we have long been waiting for is happening: substantial investment in our country's pensioners. Now more and more pensioners will have an increase that will make a difference in everyday life, thanks to a Social Democratic Government and the Pensions Group. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal in the Government's proposal for improved basic protection for pensioners. Almost a month ago, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson presented the budget bill for 2020. Fortunately, Sweden's pensioners are the winners of that budget. A total of 830 000 people will receive increased basic protection in retirement. The people who are the worst off today will have more money in their wallets, and that is not a day too soon. Last Sunday, our Prime Minister wrote this in a debate article in Aftonbladet: 中 Pensions should be increased. Those who have done their duty should also be able to claim their right. During the last term of office, pensioners received an average of SEK 1,600 more in their wallet each month. In the 2020 budget, we are improving the economy of those with the lowest pensions and continuing the abolition of the pensioner's tax. But we need to do more. In 2021, we will raise the pensions of those who have worked for a full working life and in the long term we want to raise the total pension to 70% of the final salary. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like The government's objectives are therefore very clear. Pensions are a priority, not least for our newly appointed Minister of Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi. Ardalan is also very clear about what is needed. An increased guarantee pension is necessary for those with the lowest incomes. At the same time, there is a problem. The difference in pensions between those who have worked and those who have not worked is too small. The government's focus will thus be on increasing that difference and ensuring that more people get into work. That is why we should not just increase the guarantee pension. Improved basic protection also means an increased ceiling for the housing supplement; it is now raised from SEK 5 600 to SEK 7 000. The increase in the ceiling means that the housing supplement better covers current housing costs and at the same time can make it easier for pensioners who want to move to an adapted home. However, a change in the housing supplement places higher pressure on the authority that handles this. Therefore, the government will also allocate more money to the Pension Agency to enable it to deal with housing supplement matters more quickly. Madam President, I would like The Swedish pension system is based on the principle of living income: Varje individual's pension is based on his/her earned income throughout his/her life. So we politicians cannot influence a larger part of the pension because it is based on occupational pensions, premium pensions and own savings. However, the guarantee pension, which deviates from the principle of living income, can be affected by political decisions in the Riksdag. We'll do that now. The guarantee pension allows older people who have not had the same opportunity to earn a sufficient pension of their own to obtain a reasonable financial standard. It is good to compensate for unequal and low wages, sick leave, precarious employment or unequal parental leave. On the other hand, we cannot allow people who have not paid enough pensions to benefit from the same level of basic protection as other workers are entitled to. The distance of respect in our pension system must be preserved in order for it to always pay off working. For us Social Democrats, this is a matter of course. Otherwise, the legitimacy of our pension system falls. Incentives are also weaker if we allow people who have not worked to benefit from a guarantee pension as high as everyone else. An increased income pension, on the other hand, is the goal. That should be the top priority for all the social partners to ensure the distance between those who have worked and those who have not worked. The government's investment in pensioners is part of a comprehensive package – we do several things at the same time. Our citizens who have worked a full working life should feel secure when they retire. Pensions are deferred pay, as we all know, but there are still inequalities that we need to correct through political change. While raising the age of guidance in the pension system, investing in the welfare professions for improved working environment and ensuring a more equal parental insurance, we will increase the guarantee pension and remove the unfair tax differential between pensioners and employees. All parts are important for everyone to get a good pension. Our goal is for everyone to have 70% of the final salary when you retire. Women are the group that benefits from government proposals. Women account for 80 per cent of pensioners who currently have guaranteed pensions. It is deeply unfair that the average difference between a man's pension and a woman's pension is 6 000 kronor. Of course, that gender gap should be countered in every way we can. It is therefore gratifying that women in particular will receive a monthly increase in their pension from 1 January next year. Madam President, I would like It is good that we in Sweden have a long-term and stable agreement on our pension system. This is needed in a troubled environment where short-term solutions risk creating inequality and economic losses for the individual. I am pleased to represent a party whose objectives in the area of pensions are clear and sustainable. Together, we are creating change.
i-0fa63402d782d892-719	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erica Nådin! My question to Erica is: do the Social Democrats think it is enough to increase the guarantee pension by a few hundred SEK? Is this a sufficient measure in the situation of a growing proportion of pensioners that we have in Sweden today? A large proportion of those taking part in the guarantee pension are also people who have been in work. As I told you earlier, many municipal workers who have worked their whole lives still benefit from the guarantee pension. Does Erica Nådin think 200 bucks is a reasonable increase for today's poor pensioners?
i-0fa63402d782d892-721	Madam President, I would like It is obvious that everyone should have an increase in income. Of course, 200 kroner is not enough for everyone, but just as I said in my speech, we are doing several things at the same time. The 200 - dollar increase is certainly not the only thing we do. This is a comprehensive package, in which we both eliminate the tax gap between pensioners and wage earners, raise the ceiling of the housing supplement enormously and make sure to create a better working life so that more people can get more money when they retire. I think that we need to attack inequalities from different sides, especially when it comes to equal work, and it is about parental insurance, precarious employment or part-time work. There are several things we need to do, but 200 is a good start.
i-0fa63402d782d892-723	Madam President, I would like It is certainly better with 200 than with nothing, although I have to say once again that it is well-intentioned to present this from a Social Democratic government, while, for example, the Minister for Finance receives an increase in income of 45 000 per year through tax incentives. I feel that with the distance of respect, of course, this is very important. But the point is not that we should have as low a pension as possible so that everyone is absolutely at the bottom and the only way to maintain a respect distance is that those who have very little get even less? Instead, the Left Party has told us about our proposals to increase payments to the system and make it more equal. For example, it is a matter of ensuring that the general pension contributions are increased and that we can use the money directly for the pension collective. Is this something that Erica Nådin and the Social Democrats could look at, or is it only the 200 SEK increase that those of Sweden's pensioners who have the absolute worst value should be pleased with today? At the same time, you are making them poorer by raising the retirement age so that they will not be able to work as long as necessary to obtain a fair and reasonable pension.
i-0fa63402d782d892-726	Madam President, I would like As I said, this is not just about an increase of SEK 200. We also raise the housing supplement from SEK 5 600 to SEK 7 000, and this will really make it easier for pensioners who find it difficult to get the rent together and get the money to cover the whole month. If you get more money to pay for your home, you also get more money to spend on everything else you need every month. I do not agree that it is fair to abolish the military tax. As Mr Rikard said earlier, it is not something we Social Democrats are for, but we have agreed to it so that we can do much else in government. Then you have to compensate for this in another way. We think that more people should get into work and thus get a better pension than those who have not worked. There must be a difference so that those who have worked for 40 years in the end don't still earn as much as those who haven't. There must be some kind of difference in between so that it becomes fair. While we are, as I said, raising the guarantee pension, we are trying to push the issue of increased payments and increased housing allowances. It is an overall package, and this is just a start. Ardalan Shekarabi is very clear that we will do several things during the term of office.
i-0fa63402d782d892-730	Madam President, I would like The main principle is that the pension should be based on earned income throughout life. Pensions reflect, in principle, the differences in income between men and women during working life. But let us remember that the pension system is gender neutral. Women often have lower pensions than men because they have also had lower incomes during their lives. Women have worked more in low-wage jobs and also more often than men worked part-time. That's why their pensions are getting lower. It's common knowledge. Many of today's older people, especially women, have worked part-time and been at home when the children were young and thus receive low pensions. Few thought about this or saw it as a women's trap during the 60s, 70s and 80s when it was common for women to take a big responsibility for the family and the home. Perhaps many never came back to work. Perhaps those who came back did so part - time or in jobs that never gave the high wages. Many of them have also stopped working before the age of 65. This group currently has a guarantee pension and housing allowance. This is something that is taken from the state budget; it is not in the pension system. It is intended to fill up so that you can get a reasonable economy, but still a single woman with a small income pension and guarantee pension can have as little as about SEK 11,000 – SEK 12 000 a month. Then it is certainly not easy to manage your finances. Sadly, among today's pensioners, four times more women than men receive guaranteed pensions. Of all women who retire, more than half receive a guarantee pension. They are also entitled to housing allowance, but unfortunately not everyone is looking for it. A lot of people just miss that addition. The basic protection for pensioners, which we are improving today, is necessary for a reasonable financial standard for those who have not been able to earn an adequate pension. The proposals we are making today improve the economic standard for some 800 000 pensioners. It's a very large group. In this context, I would also like to add that we moderates in our budget motion lower taxes on all pensioners. The government doesn't. We lower the tax for twice as many, and we lower it twice as much. This is very important for the very group of women who have these low pensions. The reduced tax gives a couple of hundred crowns more a month. We Moderates have always pointed out that working should pay off, and it should also pay off having worked. Here there is a conflict between basic protection and income pension, where some individuals do not receive a higher pension than the guarantee pension even though they have worked their whole lives. It is the low salary and other things that govern it. At the same time, it is important to point out that those who only live on a guarantee pension have not contributed in any way to the pension system or the welfare system and should not be able to expect the same financial standards as those who have actually worked and worked their whole lives. It will be difficult morally to maintain the will and demands to work and support oneself if the difference becomes too small or completely disappears. It is therefore strange that, as the Swedish Democrats, they are putting forward a proposal that increases the guarantee pension very much. That means that it is those who have not worked who will get more, not those who have worked. Ultimately, confidence in the entire pension system becomes worrying. We say – and we always will – that it has to pay more to work than not to. Madam President, I would like The development of basic protection is therefore a difficult balance between protecting the so-called distance of respect, i.e. for those who have worked and those who have not worked, and also protecting the most economically vulnerable, mostly older women. To increase the basic level of the guarantee pension by SEK 200 per month is the Pensions Group's proposal. This is a proposal on which we in the Pensions Group agree. It has nothing to do with the January agreement, nor is it just the Government's proposal. Sometimes it is presented in the debate as if that were the case. We also agree that the ceiling of the housing supplement will be raised from SEK 5 600 to SEK 7 000, due to rent increases and increased living expenses. This is important to point out. I would also like to point out that we can work together 24 000, i.e. about SEK 2 000 a month, and still be able to receive old people's support. As it is today, the marginal effect is just 100% – for every hundred you earn, you get less in support. We want work to pay off there too. That is something we will always fight for. We support the increase in basic protection, and I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-0fa63402d782d892-743	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are not part of the Pensions Group. However, I have no other claim. However, I would like to highlight our specific opinion in the report, which reads as follows: In recent years, the economic situation of the most vulnerable pensioners has deteriorated. More elderly people than in the past are now at risk of poverty. We believe that the trend needs to be reversed. In order to reach the most deprived elderly, we believe that the guarantee pension should be strengthened. The Government's increase of SEK 200 per month is therefore a step in the right direction that we support, but we do not think it is sufficient. In the 2020 budget, we therefore propose that the guarantee pension be increased by an additional SEK 800 per month. This gives a total increase of SEK 1 000 per month. At this stage, we therefore support the Government's proposal in this proposal. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like For the Swedish Democrats, it is important that every person who reaches retirement age should not have to live on the poverty line and constantly worry about how, for example, the last week before the next pension payment should be handled due to an economically strained situation. Let us try for a moment to get into the situation and imagine what it can be like to be a poor pensioner who has to turn every penny around. What do you think? What am I supposed to eat? How am I supposed to put food on the table today? I think it's enough to have a meal today. How am I supposed to congratulate my beloved child, who's always this year's birthday? Or, Gud forbid: How should I afford a hospital stay and new medications if I become seriously ill? It is no wonder that the loneliness and mental illness of the elderly are increasing. The situation and standard of living for many Swedish pensioners is alarming. Nearly 700 000 older people over 65 years of age could receive a guarantee pension in some form in 2018. And the fact that more than 300 000 pensioners are already living below the poverty line is a disgrace and not worthy of a welfare country like Sweden. However, the proposed action aims not only to strengthen socio-economically weak groups among older people but also to bring about gender equality reform. Among older women, approximately every other woman receives a guarantee pension, while for older men the corresponding figure is more modest 15 per cent. Today we have a situation where many people who live on their guarantee pension can barely afford as basic needs as medicines and to go to the dentist, something we were just talking about. There are more examples. To indulge in the luxury of traveling a bit to visit your grandchildren and perhaps give them a little gift on their birthday or for Christmas is out of the question. Instead of strengthening and improving the everyday lives of these elderly people, who are the most vulnerable in our society today, the government is prioritising the abolition of the military tax. As shown in our special opinion, we do not believe that the Government's increase of SEK 200 per month is sufficient, so we propose that the guarantee pension be increased by an additional SEK 800 and thus end up at a total amount of SEK 1 000 per month. At the same time, there is a very long-term problem because the entire pension system is underfunded and not adapted to demographic developments. For example, the forecast for an average 80-talist entering the labour market at the age of 25 and working up to 67 years with a final salary of approximately 30 000 SEK per month, in current monetary value, is an income pension of only 13 600 SEK. Thus, the problem of pensions calls for both short-term and long-term measures. We therefore want to explore a solution that involves higher pension provision and that can eventually contribute to higher pensions. Madam President, I would like For the Swedish Democrats, it is a priority to ensure that the safety nets are so comprehensive that the concept of poor pensioners no longer exists. In our Sweden, all people must have the right to a dignified existence throughout their lives. Therefore, the government's increase in the guarantee pension, albeit insufficient, is a step in the right direction. But, as I said, the aim must be that the concept of poor pensioners should no longer exist in our country.
i-0fa63402d782d892-753	Madam President, I would like Finally, I say, we're going to raise the pension for everyone who has the absolute lowest pension. It warms my heart as a center woman and of course as a center party that we have come there. It's been a long road, but now we're there. As I said, the Pensions Group has worked out the proposal, and we heard from Katarina Brännström that this is something that we have agreed on. No one has hesitated that way. The most important thing for us has been that the basic and guarantee pension should increase, and this should be done in a accurate way. That is why we have helped to ensure that the housing supplement is also included in the increase. The increase in the guarantee pension, together with the housing supplement, means that pensioners with the lowest pension receive an increase of just over SEK 1 000 per month. I want this to sink in, because apparently some people haven't understood it. It is above all about the women who have worked their whole lives without getting a single crown. It is women who have taken care of children, worked in agriculture, for example, or cared for sick parents or other relatives who have needed their help. They've probably been responsible for the economy of a company the man had. The women have not been paid, but the husband has been able to make money for the household. It is these women who are now given the opportunity at the age of 65, as it is today – soon it is 66, given the rise in retirement age – to have their own income for the first time. They receive a pension, and then it is important that it is reasonable. When we talk about how our system is constructed – that we have a guarantee pension for everyone who has not worked and a general pension with an occupational pension and a pension scheme for those who have worked – it is important to know that even people who have worked but who have had a low income get part of the guarantee pension, because there should always be some kind of qualification distance between not having worked and having worked. Katarina Brännström put this, which is very important: It should always pay to have worked. With the increase in the guarantee pension, this means that 800 000 people will benefit from the increase, some less, some more. Now that we mention this with the fact that the housing supplement, which is very accurate and one of the most expensive costs we have and also one of the most important when it comes to roofs over the head, I really want to take this opportunity to say: anyone who can apply for housing supplement. There are far more people who are entitled to this than are seeking it. We will now make it easier to figure out if you are entitled to housing allowance. It is not a right but an obligation to receive housing allowance in order to fill out the pension. So now I take this opportunity to say: Search for housing allowances, everyone who can! You get help from the Pension Agency and the Social Insurance Agency to do this, so do it! Even if you live in your own house, you have an expense for your accommodation and can be eligible for the housing allowance. As has been said, a high price in the bank does not mean that you are not justified, but vice versa. And it is not an almighty thing to get housing allowance, but it is a right you have. I have been clear now and said: Apply for housing supplement! That was the primary thing for me when I went up into the speaker's chair today. I am proud that we are now going to increase the guarantee pension, and I am proud that women are going to receive most of this. The housing allowance is important. Madam President, I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-0fa63402d782d892-761	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal. It is an important decision that we are making here today to increase the guarantee pension and to raise the ceiling of the housing supplement. As a Christian Democrat, I am very proud that we have to do this today. These are issues that we have pursued in the pension group where we sit. Today, approximately 290 000 pensioners receive BTP, the housing allowance for pensioners. It is an addition to the general pension, the guarantee pension and the old-age supply allowance. That is part of what we call basic protection for pensioners. It is therefore not an almighty act; it is aimed at all pensioners with the smallest economic margins. The problem that Solveig Zander highlighted and which I intend to highlight and which I see as a huge problem is the misconception that I believe is at the root: that it would be alms. The housing allowance is intended to be applied for by those entitled to it. We now know from the Swedish National Audit Office that 129 000 pensioners who are entitled to housing allowance do not apply for it. It would be hugely important if we could get them to realize that the amendment is theirs. It makes a huge difference to their economy. As a result of the rise in household income and low interest rates and a high housing shortage, housing prices have risen sharply in Sweden, and this has also been true of rents. These may not have risen at the same rate, but they have risen considerably. This means that it is now high time that we looked at the housing supplement, because it has not followed this trend. The Christian Democrats have been the driving force in reducing taxes on pensioners. During the alliance governments 2006 – 2014 we negotiated a tax reduction five times. We also raised the housing allowance three times during these years. In the post-budget budget since we came into opposition, we Christian Democrats have been exercising to raise the housing supplement. We believe that it is not only right and proper, but also a very good way of reaching those who have the very worst. The improvements proposed today by the pension group, which the government has put forward in a bill and which a majority in the Social Security Committee wants us to say yes to when we make decisions here today, are that we raise the ceiling of the housing allowance to SEK 7 000. We Christian Democrats have financed in our budget an increase in this ceiling of another SEK 500 to SEK 7 500. In the post-budget budget, the Christian Democrats have been a clear vote in favour of reducing the tax on those who have the most deprived. We have financed, in the budget after budget, the elimination of the difference in taxation between pensions and salaries. We know that it plays a major role, not least for older women who have a small margin economy. It also makes it easier for people to move to an adapted home. Today, many are being forced into tough priorities. Four five weeks ago, an older woman stopped me at home in Örebro and said that she knew that I was working on pensions and that she was happy about it. But she told me that her finances were not enough to buy her grandchild's birthday present. It cuts your heart when you meet these people. They deserve better in old age. That is why, in the draft budget of the Christian Democrats, we have financed a further reduction for those pensioners who have low pensions. One could say that we are continuing the work that the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats began, in which we ensured that tax cuts were also directed at pensioners who had a pension of less than SEK 17 200 and not just to pensioners who had a pension of more than SEK 17 200. However, we want to go further and reduce tax a little further for those pensioners who have the lowest pensions. I mentioned the salary tax in my previous speech. It was also a direct consequence of the Moderate and Christian Democrats' budget that the special wage tax was removed for the elderly. These are a series of important measures to strengthen basic protection. Having said that, however, I would like to end by pointing out a challenge, which is so popularly referred to as the new political one, which we must tackle. This is a matter of respect. It should always pay off to work. That was the idea of the pension system once it was launched. It would be a pension system that offered income security. Today, we see that the general pension is becoming more and more like what we commonly call basic security. Now that we are making these improvements today, the distance of respect is being reduced a little further. The Director-General of the Pensions Authority has gone out saying that the link between pension and work has become increasingly weaker. It is up to us in the Pensions Group now to find solutions to ensure that this link is certainly not weakened but, on the contrary, strengthened. Having said that about the distance from respect, I would also like to say once again that these are some decisions that we are making today. There will be more decisions. More proposals will be put on Parliament's table for one thing, and that is to ensure that we have a pension system that lasts over time. I think it is fantastic to be able to sit with several parties that make up over the block line. In this way, we can also obtain a robust system that lasts over time regardless of who happens to sit on the taboos of power. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-0fa63402d782d892-776	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. On the issue of guarantee pensions, I was in the pension group from 1991 to 1994. At that time we discussed this intensively, because we found that there were so many women in Sweden who had worked in family businesses, such as agriculture, and who had never received any wages. The husband had not bought any pension insurance either. It was therefore necessary that this unpaid work should still be paid in the form of a pension. Then it was about the level. And you have already discussed this with respect distance here. With regard to the new pension system that we were about to launch, it was important that work should always pay off and that provisions from wage labour should be visible in retirement. There would be a difference between the guarantee pension and the general pension. So it was about the level. At what level would we lay the general pension? We ended up on the percentage of sales that is still stuck. It was in order that the provision for pension plus government tax, plus municipal tax and plus county council tax would not be higher than that the rest – what people were left with – could be lived on. All the time, then, there is a balance between different economic factors. I think they landed pretty well. Now we increase the guarantee pension with these 200 SEK. But the most accurate is the housing supplement. There it has long been that people have not sought it. Some have not done so for fear that the cottage or holiday home you have would mess it up. There is a regulatory framework here. It is clear that 129 000 people today have not applied but are eligible for housing allowance. In fact, the Authority can identify their financial situation and see that they are entitled to it. It must therefore be trumpeted that people should seek housing allowances. Here, the Pensions Authority should make it easier for people to see that they are entitled to this housing allowance. I therefore support this part and the increased housing allowance. The level of housing allowance can be discussed. This is something that we will have to follow in the future in view of developments in the housing market and the cost of housing. What you have not discussed here today is whether we can influence the expenditure side. Then I am thinking of what is perhaps the most heaviest thing that I have mentioned in this House several times before, namely that this is the generation that has large amalgam seals that have lasted a tremendously long time – perhaps 70 years. But now these seals are starting to crack. They age faster than the individual who has them in their mouths. Next year will be an investigation into dental care. Therefore, I would like to signal here that one should really look at how insurance should be designed when it comes to replacing lost teeth. Today we see people on whom the cheeks fall. It costs you to replace the incisors. But the molars, which may be needed even better to chew the food, cannot be afforded. I'm really looking forward to the investigation there.
i-0fa63402d782d892-782	Madam President, I would like Too many of Sweden's pensioners today need to turn every penny around at the end of each month. For many, the pension is never enough, even though the costs are at a minimum. There are those who need to go to relief organizations to cover their food needs, and we can share with them every week new stories that clearly testify to the enormous financial vulnerability of certain year-rich ones. There is also another picture – many pensioners in Sweden can live a good life in the autumn of their age. High incomes over a large part of life provide the conditions for an old age where every penny does not have to count. Today, however, we are not talking about them. The situation of many pensioners living on basic protection in Sweden is poor. In August, we were able to take part in media reporting that the number of poor pensioners is increasing and that more and more older people are in need of support for the elderly to make ends meet. Over the last 15 years, the poorest pensioners have almost doubled. Living as an elderly person in an extremely vulnerable economic situation creates difficult living conditions. As many of the debaters have previously noted, the possibility of participating in society in different ways is limited, and social life has to stand back. The consequences in terms of reduced quality of life are drastic, and the chances of getting out of the situation are small. A few weeks ago I met the group Pensioners in yellow vests. It is a group of older people who have come together to demand pensions that are viable. Over 2,400 signatures were handed over to us, testifying that the commitment is enormous. The call also testifies to what life looks like for many of the elderly who live with extremely small economic margins and what vulnerability it creates. It is good that civil society engages and pushes, and it is important that we listen to them and other similar organisations – and act together. The Green Party chose to increase the guarantee pensions, and for us the reforms for the groups with the worst off are priorities. We will continue to work to improve the living conditions of that group, which – as Mr Zander mentioned – is also a clear gender equality reform. It's about all the women who have worked in a whole life to develop this society being better. Now we are making a reality of the election promise of increased guarantee pensions. The pension and the money that older people receive through other support schemes should be able to live on, and no older person should be relegated to poverty. Improving the living conditions of those with the lowest pension is a priority for the government. No one should have to turn to nonprofit forces to be able to afford food during the last days of the month. The proposal now on the table also raises the ceiling of the housing supplement. This is because the rents have risen, and it is a necessary adjustment for the legislation to be adapted to the reality in which we live. By making this change, we are not only creating more housing opportunities for pensioners with the lowest incomes, but also giving them the opportunity to get more money over to other expenses. The new structure for the housing supplement is simply more accurate. It is also included that people with a guarantee pension should be able to improve their finances by working a little. For some, this condition already exists today, but it has made no difference at all to the economic situation. Now we are adjusting the legislation so that it becomes both possible and profitable for the individual, so that through a few extra hours worked you can get a little more money every month. The proposals we are now putting forward at Parliament's table are part of the ongoing work to enable more elderly people to have the opportunity to live a good life. The fact that many parties join forces and can make joint proposals is a strength for Sweden, and that it happens in matters such as this one is important for the long-term sustainability of this work. This is a first step, but more needs to be done. During the term of office, continued work to improve the conditions for Swedish pensioners will take place under the January agreement. The higher tax on income paid by pensioners today compared with other wage earners will be removed and the pension will be increased for ordinary wage earners. The work of the Pensions Group will also continue throughout its term of office and run on, in addition to the efforts made in the budget. All reforms together will improve the situation of many years-rich people around the country. Those who have worked in an entire life on laborious jobs with poor pay or taken care of the unpaid homework will now get a little more out of the wealth they have experienced building up. This is an important step among many. That is why I support the proposal in the report.
i-0fa63402d782d892-793	Madam President, I would like There were many warm and fine words about women with low pensions and about gender equality – yes, if all the good things the government wants to do to help people. But I wonder how these words are actually in line with the policy you are actually pursuing. The Green Party wants to introduce the so-called development year, which the rest of us call a free year. You also stand behind a family week. A brief question: how can any of these two reforms deliver higher pensions?
i-0fa63402d782d892-794	Madam President, I would like I understand that the year of development may be the one that the Moderates are most likely to see when it comes to the draft budget that the government has now presented. This is not about a free year, it is about development time. It is simply a reform that will help people who today have a job to be able to train themselves in order to continue working or take another job – this in order for people who are far from the labour market to be able to get a foothold in the labour market. I find the Moderates campaign against this period of development fascinating, but it is also shocking that they are trying to make it sound like a reform that it really is not. I do not know if Katarina Brännström is aware of this, but there are a lot of jobs in Sweden today that simply cannot be added because we do not have sufficient skilled staff. It is one of the things that this should remedy. Of course, it does not help just that, but it is an important step along the way. With regard to what I said about gender equality and that this reform is a clear gender equality reform – that is what we discussed today, with basic protection – there are several who have found that women are exposed to this, as we also see in the statistics. How to connect it with development time Katarina Brännström is happy to develop a little more, because I don't see how the two things have to do with each other.
i-0fa63402d782d892-797	Madam President, I would like Working less provides lower pensions; we all agree on that, don't we? This means that both the family week and the free year will give a lower pension. It also talks about gender equality and promises higher pensions. As far as equality is concerned, the government does not intend to reduce the tax on women with the lowest pensions, i.e. those with pensions below 17 000. We do so in our budget. One might wonder how much this is in keeping with the work on gender equality. And when it comes to promising higher pensions, is it in the January agreement or in the Pensions Group that this should happen? Because nothing has been decided. I think you should be a little careful with your words. There is a policy that does not actually create higher pensions or benefit women with the lowest pensions. Then the Green Party's Janine Alm Ericson stands here and speaks warmly both for these poor women and for gender equality. You act exactly the opposite when you are in a government position. Stand by for what you're doing! After all, there will be no more work if you do not work for a year or if you take out these family weeks. Most of them are women with low pensions. We are further lowering the tax for them, but you have chosen not to do so. The proposal we are now discussing on improving basic protection is something that we all support; it is not something that the government does. I think it was a little strange in the speech when, as a government party, you take credit, although you actually act exactly the opposite.
i-0fa63402d782d892-802	Madam President, I would like I feel that Katarina Brännström mixes apples and pears fresh. What I said in my speech was precisely what we are talking about here: how the improved basic protection for pensioners is also an important gender equality reform because we see that most people who will get more money and a better standard of living are actually women. These are the women who have been at home and who often accounted for the unpaid domestic work or for many other parts, which Solveig Zander mentioned. I did not try in any way to argue that this is a job that only we stand for or stand up for. I think it was good that there were several of us who raised the gender dimension and that there were several who mentioned that women are now getting better off. I would still like to say that it is not the case that development time – or family week, for that matter – will cause problems for pensions. I'm sure there's a lot more to it. I look forward to constructive work on these issues in the future, for a well-developed pension system both for the poorest pensioners and for others.
i-0fa63402d782d892-808	Madam President, I would like The Moderates have long been advocating stricter requirements and stricter penalties for benefit crimes, so we are finally saying a lot about the government's proposal to amend and tighten the benefit crime law. It is increasingly clear that aid offences are linked to serious organised crime. There are studies that say that it is up to 20 billion annually that are being wrongly paid out of our welfare systems. These are totally unacceptable sums that go to criminals instead of to welfare. We have long said that there is a need for strong action against the fraud of subsidies. It is not only a question of discovering it, but also of investigating it and of prosecuting and prosecuting those who have committed these crimes and thus tackling organised crime. The Alliance government already introduced a notification obligation in 2008 in the event of the mere suspicion of undue payments to private individuals. We think it is good that this should now be tightened up and extended to include municipalities and that it should also apply to pensions. This will allow more people to be arrested and convicted for this crime. We are also pleased that the government is proposing a penalty for six years. This was something that we Moderates went out with already a few years ago. It is good that the government follows, because as usual we Moderates go ahead and describe reality. We often face opposition, but then it turns out that reality is catching up. It is clear that fraud in subsidies must be detected and punished. We need a good deal of work here with all the authorities. Unfortunately, we do not have proper coordination. We have no good efficiency and, above all, no really good cooperation between the authorities to get to grips with all this subsidy fraud. After all, we all think that it is completely unreasonable for millions to end up with fraudsters who are deceiving society. It is important that we continue to work to combat the crime of grants and that we deepen this. I see today's proposal as a first step along that road. It is also important that we continue the work of those who depend on subsidies. If the development of subsidies is not slowed down, we risk that some people will end up in dependency and that this will be completely permanent. In this way, integration also fails. The drive to move from grants to jobs must be increased, and here the government has work to do. We want to tighten up the requirements for supply support. We want a grant ceiling, and we do not think that one should be able to slide straight into Swedish welfare and receive grants without having worked and contributed. What is a little strange is that the government in this proposal does not want to include the wage guarantee in the amendment of the grant crime law. The fact is that there are very clear signals from several quarters that the wage guarantee is the subject of fraud. You buy up a company and then give your family and friends or maybe just fictional names as employees. The company will then be declared bankrupt, and the state wage guarantee will expire. It's far too easy to fool the government into money. In connection with an assessment made a few years ago, it was mentioned that it was up to 200 million a year that was wrongly paid out in wage guarantees. Unfortunately, control is far too poor. It is lagging behind, and it is difficult to implement effectively. Here, too, new, tough moves are needed. We Moderates therefore want the government to come back with proposals on this and that the obligation to notify involves more actors than is stated in this proposal. This was proposed in the study on which the proposal we are talking about today is based, and it was also proposed by the Crime Prevention Council and by something called the Delegation for correct payments from welfare systems. All of these agreed that the wage guarantee should be included, but the government chose a different path. We also do not think that committed grant offences should be time-barred because of the length of the proceedings. In addition to extending the limitation period, we therefore propose that the government take substantial measures to shorten the processing times of the paying agencies, the paying agencies, the municipalities, the police and the prosecutors. I therefore support our reservations 1 and 2.
i-0fa63402d782d892-821	Madam President, I would like How much tax money is actually being paid out incorrectly? The main purpose of the grant crime law introduced in 2007 was to reduce the number of undue payments and to strengthen confidence in our welfare system. The proposal we are now considering has proposals that further strengthen the legal protection of the Swedish welfare system. This is something that we Swedish democrats have asked for. I am thinking of both benefit crime and crime at large. It is a growing problem in Sweden, and it takes a strong effort on all sides to make it clear that there should be tangible consequences for those who do not comply with law and order. The Swedish Democrats welcome the fact that the Act is strengthened and extended to include grants, support and compensations decided by Försäkringskassan, Arbetsförmedlingen or the municipality, which relate to an individual but are not paid directly to it. There is therefore little impact on the individual. It is primarily the company that is abusing the welfare system that will be affected by the sharper bill. I would also like to point out that individuals who inadvertently err do not suffer from either the old or the new law. In other words, what the amendment does is to cover, among other things, dental care allowance, labour market policy support and assistance compensation under the Social Services Act. Madam President, I would like We have in recent years been reached by several reports on how it is cheated with both assistance compensation and dental support. Last year, Försäkringskassan called back SEK 20 million for invented dental care. Only for this year are you up to SEK 30 million, and then we still have a quarter left. So it is SEK 50 million in just under two years for only one grant. This could be compared with the total cost of food per year for about 1,700 people or with a significant number of garbage lunches for our homeless or, for that matter, our pensioners. At the same time, as recently as last week, the delegation controlling outflows from the welfare system reported that it was estimated that around 18 billion were wrongly paid out in 2018 – something that the Minister of Finance commented with concern. Well, that's very mild of you to say. It is quite unreasonable sums that are wrongly burdening our welfare system, if the delegation's figures are correct. As we say, and as most members of the committee agree, respect for the welfare system must be great. It must be felt to be deliberately deceiving. The tougher proposals in the grant crime law are therefore a step in the right direction. Our unique welfare system is simply in place to support and support those people who, for various reasons, are entitled to financial support and financial benefits. From a political point of view, it should be everyone's concern that this money should be put in the right hands to the greatest extent and that the work to reduce subsidy fraud is strong. From 2015 to 2018, reported offences against the Swedish Social Insurance Agency have increased by 44 per cent, according to Brå. This is, to say the least, a worrying development we are seeing. With today's digitalisation, our welfare system should in some sense be so watertight that it should not be possible to cheat. For the most serious benefit crimes, the prison sentence is now rising from four to six years, which we welcome. Linked to these crimes, we suggest that it should also mean that, for a limited period to come, the right to the benefits that are convicted of having been falsely obtained should be waived. It should also be added that, in order to be convicted of serious benefit crime, it should be demonstrated that for a long period of time there has been systematic and organised crime against the welfare system and usually very large amounts of money. It is quite reasonable, then, that the contribution that has been passed on should be blocked for some time to come. Madam President, I would like The proposal also provides for more to be covered by the notification obligation, which is also positive and in some sense a prerequisite for making any subsidy fraud more visible, which also leads to more notifications. What should be taken into account, however, is the fact that the judiciary needs to have the necessary resources and that feedback to the authorities that report a crime is actually done, not least in cases where cases are closed. It'll be a bit of an element 22 if the law doesn't last all the way. As I said, the bill is necessary. As regards the Council's view that the control of wage guarantee payments should be developed and improved, I would like to mention that we support the proposal highlighted by the Moderates and Christian Democrats, that the law should also include the wage guarantee. We are well aware of how this benefit is used incorrectly and that it often leads to those who are genuinely entitled to the wage guarantee not receiving it. As with other crimes, we are absolutely convinced that this needs to be made more clearly and with a sense of touch, as we do in this proposal. We would have liked the wage guarantee to have been included and that even gross benefit breach would mean that the grant in question would have been blocked for some time to come. In answer to the question as to how much money may be paid out incorrectly, the answer is, in our view, simply SEK 0. We will never ever accept the disappearance of our tax money and end up in the wrong hands. Madam President, I would like I therefore support our Amendment No 3.
i-0fa63402d782d892-840	Madam President, I would like The Left Party mainly supports the proposals contained in the bill which are dealt with in today's report, a stronger protection of welfare systems. We would have liked to have seen some further measures which I would like to come back to in the speech, so I am already taking the opportunity to call for our reservation No 4. The Left Party has long pointed out the disproportionate and unbalanced fact that the so-called subsidy fraud law has not been applicable to the abuse of corporate compensation. Moreover, it is precisely this type of crime that really means that someone has set out to deceive society and the welfare system into big money for their own profit. The current situation has had both a practical and a kind of communicative list. A certain type of carelessness or cheating with payout has been worth having a very own team for, while other types of carelessness and cheating, which it should reasonably be viewed more seriously, have not qualified for that law. This is something that has been pointed out by both several reviews and parliamentary decisions over the years. It is therefore gratifying that there is now at last a proposal which at least partially tackles this bias. It is therefore good that we can now prosecute benefit offences in cases where Försäkringskassan, Arbetsförmedlingen or a municipality pays out support for one individual but via someone else. These are, for example, foam companies that collect support for employees but do not pay out what the papers say should go to the person for whom the aid is intended. We in the Left Party believe that the government should now have taken the opportunity to make a change that could make the handling of this law more effective in practice. It is a position that we share, among other things, with the Ecocrime Agency, which, in its referral to the underlying investigation, suggested that some of the less serious offences committed by the Grant Crimes Act should be decriminalised rather than lead to administrative sanctions by the authorities paying out. The reason for this is that the police and the prosecutor should be given more opportunities to focus on the more serious crimes, even in cases where companies are used as a crime tool. We know that this type of gross violation of welfare systems is taking place. Furthermore, we know that they often have links to other crime, including violent crime. It is therefore reasonable for legislation to make it easier for law enforcement authorities to give better priority and focus right. That is what we are calling for in our follow-up motion and which we are referring to in the reservation which I have already called for. However, while we are talking about irregularities in labour market policy support, I would like to mention a broader problem, which we also mention in our motion. It is a question of subsidised employment. Subsidised employment is, of course, a tool that can be very effective in getting people with disabilities or newly arrived with weak language skills into the regular labour market. But we also know that the current system has been fraught with some risks and problems. These include employers who put the use of these subsidies into schemes to the extent that in certain sectors and places it can be seen as a difficulty to get a job at all if you do not have a subsidy. It is clear that this should not work, because the result is an unhealthy competition and in many cases also the exploitation of vulnerable people. We believe that it is not possible to deal with these problems simply by punishing fraud afterwards, even if it also needs to be done, but there is a need for system changes to prevent one from ending up in such situations. In other contexts, the Left Party has suggested, among other things, that some kind of maximum limit should be introduced for the number of subsidised jobs per employer. It should not be possible to run a business where you expect to constantly replace one person for another and constantly get to take part in a subsidy and base your business idea on this. There should also be much better pre- and ex-post controls on employers receiving the subsidies. There, trade unions have a crucial role to play, as they are close to the business and know how the industry works and which companies have made a negative distinction. Unfortunately, however, we know that consultations between the Employment Service and the trade unions have been extremely inadequate. The Left Party believes that the Government should clarify that the opinions of trade unions should always be sought in these cases and carefully considered when deciding on workplace instructions. Several trade unions testify that the actual salary paid in these contexts is often below collective bargaining levels and that insurance may not be available. This is difficult to control because many information is confidential on the basis of business secrets. It is unreasonable in cases where public funds are handled in this way. The government has previously prepared a bill that would allow the Public Employment Service to request information from banks and insurance companies on what wages and insurances employers actually pay. According to statements by the government in the media, this proposal was to be submitted for consultation in August 2018, but since then nothing has happened in this matter – even if there has been quite a lot of other things in the world. It is regrettable and something that the government should be reminded of, preferably by the representatives of the government parties who are here. Unfortunately, we can see that the government has rather taken steps in the opposite direction because of the cooperation on the right in the January agreement. One such step is to abolish the requirement to comply with collective agreements when starting a new job. This makes it more difficult in practice to prosecute the abuses that are being attempted with this law and other laws. Finally, of course, there is the wandering elephant in the room, namely the ongoing breakdown in the privatisation of the Employment Service. Anyone can understand that an authority that has been put in such a chaotic state by this neoliberal experiment cannot simply be expected to take the lead in better cooperation and better controls in these cases that have been under discussion. Unfortunately, we will have to return to this problem many times in this House and elsewhere in the coming time.
i-QYfXh5yeBuzVweqvj2B5TK	Madam President, I would like I would like to express my support for reservation No 1. In our welfare systems, hundreds of billions of dollars are paid out annually. It is a lot of money, but it is money that we have decided to help our citizens at different stages of their lives. There is also a temptation here to usurp money that you are not really entitled to. We know that there are people who take advantage of this opportunity. We are talking about crimes committed on a computer, in peace and quiet in the office or at home in the TV sofa. The special thing about these crimes is that there are no direct victims, because the victims are all of us taxpayers. So it is an anonymous group of people who are affected. In addition, penalties have been low and control systems inadequate. The Christian Democrats have worked for a long time to ensure that a range of measures are taken aimed at getting this right and combating fraud against our common benefit systems. The ambition has been, on the one hand, to save millions of sums that would otherwise fall into the wrong hands, and, on the other hand, to preserve the legitimacy of our systems. That is why we welcome the proposals that are now being put on the table of Parliament. Nevertheless, we have found that we should reserve our reservations on this issue, and we do so for a reason. There is something missing from the proposal that the majority of the Social Security Committee has supported with regard to the proposal that has been put forward, and it is about the payment of the state wage guarantee. A number of studies and reports have concluded that this payment needs to be reviewed and that there is a need for it to be covered by the grant crime law. In the joint reservation that we Christian Democrats and Moderates have written, we point to the absence of this. In its proposal, which is based, among other things, on the Welfare Investigation, the Government has chosen not to go on the investigation's proposal. The committee justifies this by saying that there is a difference in crime. In the case of the wage guarantee, it is intentional, while in other cases it is a case of gross negligence or omission. There is also another argument in the reason why the wage guarantee is not included, and it is that it is not the individual or the employer who has submitted the information to the paying authority but the bankruptcy administrator, the administrator or the enforcement authority. Against these arguments are the conclusions of the Crime Prevention Council. In fact, the fact that several players are involved makes it more difficult to detect fraud. More importantly, Brå believes that those who work with wage guarantees would tighten up their control procedures if they were covered by the benefit crime law. We know that the number of darkness is great when it comes to how much money is involved. In one report, Sameb, an organization against financial crime, estimated it to be SEK 150 - 200 million annually for just the wage guarantee. The delegation for correct payments is in line with the views expressed by Brå and the Welfare Investigation and believes that the wage guarantee is an area to be covered by the Grant Crimes Act. The enforcement authority, constructors and receivers often find it difficult to see when these frauds occur. We Christian Democrats believe that there is reason to send the bill back. We believe that the law should also include breaches of wage guarantee payments.
i-0fa63402d782d892-866	Madam President, I would like We are in this House on the basis of the Government's proposal to tighten the penalties for serious crimes in the welfare system. This is based on two studies set up in 2015 and 2016 – this is just a small commentary on many comments about how long they have wanted to carry this out. Two major studies have been carried out, one in-depth, so that we can present these proposals to the House today. Let me begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. The Swedish model is based on the fact that everyone contributes. Everyone who can work should work, and everyone who lives in Sweden should take responsibility for our country and their own future. We need to take joint responsibility for our children's education, to increase security in streets and squares and to combat hate, racism and sexism so that Sweden is open to everyone. It's not up to anyone else. Someone else is out-of-date and inactive. It is together that we create the Sweden we want to live in. It therefore feels good after hearing today's speeches to realise that we are fairly in agreement on the importance of this bill. If everyone does their duty and demands their right, we have the opportunity to build the cohesive, sustainable and free front country that we know Sweden can be. In troubled times, we need to work even harder to strengthen cohesion and trust. This can never be achieved by tax cuts, cuts and cuts in wages or by pointing out scapegoats and burning distrust between people. Nor can we turn a blind eye to the cracks that arise in our common security systems. I would like to stress precisely what is common, because it is when we make joint investments in each other and in society that we build trust. It is an essential element for everyone to feel responsible for what we share and contribute to. Madam President, I would like It is important that those who do their best on the basis of their ability be able to rely on it to get the right help and that the resources we jointly allocate also go to what they were intended to serve. Trust therefore requires that we make sure that it works. That is why it is one of the measures that we, as Social Democrats, are safeguarding. For almost two terms of office, I have been working on these issues firmly in the Committee on Taxation, that is, on the revenue side. In the Committee on Taxation, one of the priority issues has been to tackle aggressive tax planning and tax evasion that undermines the basis that enables us to invest in things that are good for us together. It is good health care for everyone, education to meet labour market needs, but also to enable us to develop as people. These are major heavy infrastructure projects to make Sweden competitive. But it is also the authorities and the security systems for which this committee is responsible, such as health insurance, pension insurance and others. What we have jointly set aside to contribute to the common should also do so. You shouldn't get away because you happen to be creative and find ways around the system. This should not be done as an individual, not as a company or in the form of organised crime. We must all be able to rely on welfare systems. As times change and new decisions affect who can create loopholes and otherwise access the systems, we have a need to increase the protection of the welfare system. Since the introduction of the law, some things have happened. We have an enlarged market with private services and providers that have opened up to more people to use the systems. It has had the consequence that it is open to organised crime in a completely different way than before. It is a threat to the welfare system, which is an important part of the Swedish model. It hurts us. One and the most obvious is the economic aspect. We have heard several sums mentioned in the speaker's chair. We are getting an expense we simply do not intend to have. Just as the government has actively worked to stop tax evasion and aggressive tax planning, we also need to work on the expenditure side. The resources we take in will be used for what they are dedicated to. What is perhaps not the most obvious but the fact is that now that we have private operators in the systems, it is also a question of competitiveness neutrality. It should not be the case that it is the companies that have the least scruples that win out of this, but it should be those that have the best service or the best product. Above all, this damages trust. A modern welfare system is to be trusted. Therefore, the proposal provides for an increase in the payments covered by the law, which is why the maximum penalty is increased and the limitation period is extended. This is being done so that more people can be prosecuted for the crimes committed that attack trust in our common systems. The foundation should be: I contribute, and so does everyone else. I get help when I need it, and anyone who tries to exploit our goodwill to care for each other will be stopped and prosecuted. So we hold on to goodwill and trust in the common. Before closing my speech, I would like to mention the issue of the wage guarantee. It went through Hans Eklind excellently, so I'm not going to do that. If you continue to read in the proposal, the government says you want to come back here. It is not certain that it will end up in this legislation, but it needs to be addressed. With the two massive investigations, there needs to be more proposals. We are concerned about the use of the benefit system. I have also noted that there is concern about the dependence on subsidies. I would like to take this opportunity to say that the systems that we have designed include grants that make demands and are not passive. If you do not get part of the systems because you have not been able to contribute in one way or another, you will end up in a passive system that can really put you in an addiction.
i-0fa63402d782d892-883	Madam President, I would like Our welfare system is indeed something to be guarded. We in Sweden are well known for having a publicly funded welfare system, a security system. It should give us security and protection when we end up in a situation that was not calculated, when we want medical care or when we get education. It is through the treasury that we should feel that security. Because we pay our taxes, that's possible. There are three models that make up our welfare system. It is basic security, needs testing and income loss model. In addition, our welfare systems also provide age equalisation and income equalisation elements. This means that we must help to ensure that the money paid comes to those who most of all need it. That is why we must be able to trust our systems. We need to know that when we need it, we will also receive it. There are rules for when we will receive them and what conditions should prevail for money to be paid out. It's supposed to be rules that are the same for everyone. If someone receives money on an incorrect basis, that is, in a criminal way, it means, in short, taking money from those who really need it. There is no human being in this country who wants to be a part of it. With regard to financial crime, crime has become increasingly common and serious. For us in the Center Party, it is important that we counteract it in every way. If we don't, people are losing faith in our systems, and that's not right. That is why we need better intelligence, and we also need severe penalties. The proposal now on the table includes more stringent penalties, an extension of the limitation period and the inclusion of more bodies. We've already heard that here. There is a reservation, which the Center Party does not support. Nevertheless, I would like to say that this is about something that we think is important. That's the reservation from the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. It is about the government wage guarantee being included in the present proposal. In committee, we chose not to endorse it. It was on condition that the government is already reviewing how to deal with and counteract errors and cheating in the state wage guarantee. I can promise, Madam President, that we will follow the evaluation and the work done by the government. There may be reasons why we are helping quickly to change that regulatory framework as well. To date, however, we support the report that exists.
i-0fa63402d782d892-891	Madam President, I would like The Liberals support the report. Solveig Zander has thoroughly reviewed the principles of the various safety nets we have in society, so I do not go into the details of this. The safety nets are important, and they are the ones that make it possible for Sweden to really be seen as a welfare state that provides support when, for various reasons, you most need it. But this is also about a lot of money. It's tax money, and it has to be used right. The fraud of subsidies that we have seen is totally unacceptable. That is why it is so essential that we tighten the legislation as we do today. Unfortunately, when the issue of subsidy fraud arises, it also affects people's confidence in the systems more widely. We have seen, not least within LSS and LASS, that there has been discussion of the extent to which support should be given when the reports of cheating have appeared. It is extremely important that we get to grips with this problem. We'll have to comply with the law. I see this as an important issue for the Social Security Committee, and we have a responsibility in all committees to monitor the functioning of our legislation – positive and negative. With regard to the issue of the wage guarantee, it is also extremely important that the money is used correctly. We have had a discussion in the Liberals about how we stand about this. We support the work done in the government, because we are not sure that this law should be used. There may be other legislation to do, because this is a slightly different system from the various contributions we have discussed. As Mr Zander said, we will follow this closely, because it is equally important that wage subsidy money is used properly. Each crown shall receive its intended use.
