i-b24b017bd796ec4b-7	Mr President, I would like to Andreas Carlson has asked me when the government estimates to leave a bill proposing a ban on access to stores, swimming pools and libraries. The government takes seriously the crime mentioned by Andreas Carlson. Crime can be devastating for the victims, and it is of course particularly serious if it is a systematic action. Last year, I commissioned an investigator to consider a number of issues relating to arrest and access bans. The investigator has now, in accordance with his mandate, proposed a new law prohibiting access to shops, bathing facilities and libraries. The investigator's memo has been referred. However, I would like to clarify that the consultation period ended on 7 June 2019 and not on 23 March 2019 as stated in the interpellation. The investigator's memo shows that in stores the extent and consequences of theft are relatively well documented, including through the Swedish Council for Crime Prevention's statistics on criminal offences in stores. In other parts, the investigator notes that the extent and nature of the offences are partly unclear. Having said that, the intention is to come back with a bill this spring. In addition, the Council has taken a number of measures in this area. We are strengthening the Police Authority so that more police employees can fight crime and increase security. The government set itself the objective of increasing the number of police officers by 10,000 by 2024. From 1 January 2016 to October 2019, the number of police employees has increased by nearly 2,500. On 4 November 2019 515 new aspirants were employed around Sweden, and on 25 November 2019 they were joined by 546 police officers. So we are well on our way to almost 3 000 more police workers. It is important that people who commit crimes are confronted with a rapid and clear response from the judiciary. Since January 2018, there has been a trial in northern Stockholm with a rapid procedure in criminal matters. An interim evaluation by the Swedish Crime Prevention Council shows positive results, with shorter processing times and a higher proportion of prosecutions. R egeringen has therefore decided that the experimental activities will continue after the end of the year and in a first step be extended to the entire Stockholm region. The Government has also decided in February 2019 on a special experiment for young offenders under the age of 18. During the last term of office, we have also exchanged the crime prevention work, with both the addition of resources and a new national crime prevention programme. The crime prevention programme will be followed up with a new letter to the Riksdag, and recently 14 authorities reported a government commission on the efforts they have made in the field of crime prevention. Legislative measures have also been taken. A new Camera Protection Act entered into force on 1 August 2018, where the general authorisation requirement previously applied to camera surveillance has been abolished. The new law means that camera surveillance in stores, for example, can now be carried through without permission. In addition, several penalties have been imposed in respect of property offences and crimes against persons. The minimum penalty for, among other things, gross illegal threats and aggravated robbery was raised in 2017. At the same time, the scale of penalties for serious damage was tightened. It is important that the person who commits several crimes receives a penalty proportionate to the seriousness of crime. Crime should never pay off. During the last parliamentary term, the government carried out a reform that treats more acts as relapsing into crime and thus meets with a reinforced criminal justice response. So, Mr President, a large number of measures have been taken to increase security and combat crime.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-19	Mr President, I would like to I thank Morgan Johansson for the answer, although a large part of the answer concerned parts other than the cloun itself on the issue, which was when the introduction of a ban on access to shops, swimming pools and libraries came into place. The Swedish Commerce Federation spends 11 billion a year on its crime prevention security work. Traders therefore account for half a police budget only for the costs of the problems associated with disorder, theft and threats in stores. The cost of 11 billion does not include the cost of the actual crimes, such as robbery, vandalism and theft. Trade takes enormous responsibility, but increasingly feels that they are doing this alone. In fact, crime and insecurity have escalated so much in some places that some traders are forced to close down or are thinking about closing down. Many people are considering this. I've met several of them for the last two years when I've been out visiting. I know that Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson has done the same. This leads me to a supplementary question after the answer that Morgan Johansson has given us in this House. The Government notes that the investigator points to the extent and nature of the offences being partly unclear. Is it also the government's view that the scope and nature are unclear? This is a supplementary question to which I would like answers in the debate. The problem is much bigger than the investigation points to. It can also lead to the closure of stores. And it's not just about the shops. Not rarely is the grocery store in a center hub varicring other stores circuits. Can't Ica, Hemköp or Coop remain, then the customer data is left for a pharmacy, a kiosk or a flower shop? A deserted center becomes an insecure centre, and an insecure center becomes a place where the dark forces of society can take over. We are already seeing this in the particularly vulnerable areas where criminals exercise control over the local community. More measures are needed than a ban on access in stores to reverse security. Morgan Johansson looked at some of the measures that the government sees and has implemented. On the Christian Democrats' side, we also think it is important to put in place a system of police search zones, so that police officers can search in certain zones where there is an increased risk of crime, as well as a ban on the stay of locally-affiliated criminals, such as convicted persons in criminal networks that handle drug trafficking in specific places. Part of the penalty should then be that you are banned from that area. But a ban on access in stores would have a direct effect on traders and their employees. Their daily lives could be secured. That is why this is an extremely important piece of legislation. The investigation has been completed and referred. The proposed entry into force of the legislation is 1 January 2021. Now I hear Morgan Johansson say that the intention is to return with a bill in our When does the government intend to do so? Will the proposed time of entry into force of the investigation be possible? Should we consider this letter of intent a promise from Morgan Johansson and the government?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-26	Mr President, I would like to This debate concerns an issue that is important to many people. It is about traders who struggle to offer a safe environment for customers, employees and themselves. It is about trade personnel who need to have a safe working environment. It is about those who work in libraries and bathing facilities and who should be able to do their job without threats and violence. It is also about us ordinary people who should be able to shop, bathe and borrow books without the risk of being drawn into situations where violence and threats occur. It is time to ensure that the needs of these people are met. There is a need for the possibility of a ban on access as soon as possible. Mr President, I would like to In the previous post, the need for access bans has been highlighted. However, I would also like to highlight some of the views expressed by the consultation bodies in order to give a picture from those most closely affected by the situation. Among other things, Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils – or Swedish Municipalities and Regions, as they say these days – say that they are of the opinion that there are strong enough reasons for introducing a regulation that allows people to be excluded from shops, swimming facilities and libraries in the event of criminal liability. They say that the investigator has well explained the order and security problems that occur in municipal bathing facilities and libraries. It is about both visitors and staff being subjected to violence, threats and harassment, and municipal property being subjected to vandalism. The problems involve costs for the municipality and insecurity for staff and visitors. The Swedish Commerce Federation also highlights this: a growing number of cases such as theft offences in stores have increased by over 50 per cent since 2014. This is having ever more tangible consequences. This makes recruitment difficult, restricts supply and opening hours and prevents citizens from visiting public places at any time they wish. The Swedish Commerce Federation also writes that the main purpose of an access ban is to ensure that the approximately 500 000 employees working in the trade can be guaranteed a safe working environment. Moving on to the Trade Union also raises the need for a ban on access. It considers that the concrete proposal of the investigation for a ban on access – – – is well balanced and can therefore be implemented. It says that a majority of those who work in shops are happy with their jobs. But there are problems with customers or other individuals who have free access to the store being able to behave in a way that disturbs and causes concern among employees. This is a health and safety problem that the employer must be able to deal with and address by law. Trade is also of the opinion that there is a legal certainty in dealing with police and judicial matters and that this is in itself a defence against possible abuse of freedom of movement. Trade believes it is important that the process of access bans should be able to take place urgently. Finally, I would also like to point out that the police are bringing forward the need for a ban on access. They write, among other things, the following: a development in society where insecurity and disorder of order make it impossible for public places to be used as intended is not acceptable. This underlines the need for a ban on access. I would therefore like to ask Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson: Is not the views of the consultation bodies important to meet and also the wishes of them for rapid handling? What exactly does the objective mean? Does proposal in our proposal in March or May? One might wonder why it is almost a year after the response of the referral bodies.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-34	Mr President, I would like to I will go first to the question and the wording of what is unclear or not unclear that Andreas Carlson raises. I think Andreas Carlson read both the interpellation response and the investigation poorly. In the interpellation response, we say that there is good evidence and is well documented that there is a need to impose entry bans on shops. When it comes to swimming pools and libraries, the investigation says that there the need and evidence are somewhat more unclear. That is what we are talking about in essence. There is also a stronger criticism of those parts with both swimming pools and libraries than there is for the shops. However, with regard to the need to implement access bans for shops, I would like to say that this is well documented. Both Ingemar Kihlström and Andreas Carlson can be completely calm in that part. We will proceed with a ban on access to stores. We'll do it this spring. I therefore see no problem with being able to keep the entry into force date until 1 January 2021, and that is our objective. Then you should know that we are doing what the Alliance government did not dare, did not want and did not have the strength to go forward with. That's it. The Alliance government also investigated this issue in a special investigation called the Property Protection Investigation where there was a report in 2012. But then you fumbled with the ball. You didn't run that investigation. You did not commission that investigation to make proposals for a ban on access. When the investigation that looked at the matter came, it did not propose a ban on access. Then, after 2012, you chose simply to put it in the drawer and not to move on with it. You lost your appetite on this matter. It could not have been because the condition was better then when it came to shoplifting, shoplifting, phone theft, robbery or burglary than it is now. All the relevant statistics we have show that it was worse ten years ago than it is now in this part. I'm looking at the numbers for shoplifting and shoplifting. The number of registered shoplifting and shoplifting ten years ago was nearly 70 000 in one year. The latest figure in 2018 is 42,000. I look at the numbers when it comes to burglary in stores, when you actually break into the store. There was the figure ten years ago 6,400. The latest figure from 2018 is 2,600, i.e. more than a half. I can look at the number for the store robbery. With regard to both burglaries and store robberies, the propensity for registration is probably considerably higher than it is for shoplifting and shoplifting. After all, with regard to store robbery, we have a much more qualified and serious crime and therefore also a higher propensity to report. Ten years ago, in 2009, we had 1 100 store robberies. The latest figure for 2018 is 515. So it's a halve in terms of the number of reported robberies. If we look at the number of reported robberies where firearms have been used, in ten years they have decreased by three quarters. You should know that, too. That is not to say that there is no need today to impose a ban on access, because I think there is. But perhaps it would have been wise for the then government to proceed with the proposal in view of what it looked like at the time. We will now. What you did not deliver, we will deliver in ours. I look forward to being able to go first to the Law Council and then to the Riksdag with such a proposal. We need to have sharper opportunities simply to ensure that those who commit crimes in shops and against retailers can no longer do so.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-45	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin with the question of whether the government's image is consistent with that of the investigator. Nevertheless, my assessment is that there are doubts from the investigator regarding the main proposal itself. According to the investigator, the proposal to ban access would only have an impact on thefts committed by certain habitual offenders. The investigator believes that it would only target certain habitual offenders. The big problem in the trade is that the recurring comes in criminals who see store shelves as their own pantry. They empty certain meats in order to sell it on. It is precisely the recurring problem that is part of the problem. It is important, as I see it, for the government to make it clear that it does not share the investigator's relativisation of the major problem. The relativisation is precisely, as the Minister of Justice is concerned with, when you look at the number of reported crimes. You can certainly say that they have gone down. But you have to look at the very large number of darknesses that exist. I can tell when I meet the traders who have stopped reporting. They do not have the time or energy to do everything necessary to keep a person, report a crime and then receive a letter the day after the case is closed. We need a priority and a commitment here. We recognize the pattern from the government. When we ask concrete questions about how to interpret the intention as a promise of when the bill will come, we are told that it is all the fault of the alliance government. I am the first to admit that in several areas the alliance government could have done more – absolutely. But that was quite a few years ago. The development we have seen in society is a growing lack of standards and a deterioration of the climate. You threaten, and a youth can even steal a cinnamon bun-- I think it was-- using a gun or a dummy. An armed robbery for such a small sum we have not seen before. We have seen such developments in our society. I do not know if Morgan Johansson saw it coming, but his Prime Minister has said on several occasions that he did not. To say that the Alliance would see everything that the Social Democrats themselves have not seen long before the normlessness took on, I think is a little presumptuous. Instead, answer the questions! Should we consider this declaration of intent a promise? And when's the bill coming? As Ingemar Kihlström was concerned about, this is also an important issue for the working environment. When it comes to trade, the investigation completely misses that the stores are also workplaces for about half a million employees. Employers have an occupational safety and health responsibility that they are unable to live up to because the tools are lacking. As I said, I have met many traders, and they are addressing this problem. Last spring I was in an Ica shop outside Gothenburg which I know the Minister of Justice has also visited: Ovrell's life in Kortedala. I got to see some of the footage from the security cameras in the little office behind the pawn shop. Of course you get upset and irritated. But one also shares the anxiety that Mikael, the merchant's name, feels. His contribution – and what we from the Christian Democrats also think – is that we must quickly get legislation in place. It is therefore urgent for the Minister to answer the question: when will the bill arrive? Should we consider the letter of intent as a promise from Morgan Johansson?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-56	Mr President, I would like to We can see that in today's society we have many different problems related to crime. What we are debating today is evidence of everyday crime that affects traders, commercial workers and library staff, but also ordinary citizens. I see a ban on access as a measure to further promote unacceptable behaviour on the part of society. It is also a way of improving the working environment for employees in trade, libraries and bathing facilities. Today it is a fact that there is the possibility of a ban on access in connection with sporting events. In the light of this, it would be natural to urgently create the conditions for a ban on access also for shops and to consider doing so also for bathing facilities and libraries. The referral is available, and the evidence is in the investigation. But we can note that despite five years of Morgan Johansson's reign, he chooses to look to the years before then. Although he says he takes this issue seriously, the consultation procedures were ready in June, and we are now standing here in December, just before Christmas, debating it. And the base isn't on the table. I repeat the question that I put in my previous speech: Can Morgan Johansson give us a more specific time? When's the bill coming? Will it come in March, which can be counted as a spring month? The issue needs to be given a higher priority. We didn't give it priority in the alliance period. Morgan Johansson has so far not given priority to this issue. Now it needs to come up on the table. It is time to promote a ban on access.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-62	Mr President, I would like to We must have some kind of honesty and honesty in the debate. It is true, as Ingemar Kihlström has just said, that the Alliance Government did not give priority to this issue. It is true in the sense that you set up the investigation, but you did not steer it in such a way that it made proposals. And once the report came in 2013, you dropped the ball. Then you didn't care about the issue anymore. Then you put it in a drawer. What this government and I have done is set up an investigation with the mission to establish a ban on access. We now have such a basis on the table so that the government and parliament can move on with it. That's what I've done. It's as usual: we will deliver. When you fumbled with the ball and couldn't beat it, we're gonna deliver this. Is this supposed to be a promise? Yes, of course it should be seen as a promise. Our goal is precisely this: to deliver a proposal regarding a ban on access in stores during the spring so that the legislation can enter into force on 1 January 2021. Of course, we need time to first go to the Law Council and see how they view the matter and then come to the Riksdag. That is the intention. That's why we set up the investigation! We have done this because I believe in this. I want this kind of legislation. I also find it offensive that we have a situation where there may be people who think that shops are their own pantry and run back and forth and take what they want. It's deeply offensive. I, too, have met many traders who have raised the issue. But what I am pointing out is that there is also another development in the question of what it looked like ten years ago and what it looks like now. Andreas Carlson talks about dark speeches. Yes, there may be a great number of darkness, especially when it comes to shoplifting and shoplifting. But if we go up one step and look at the burglaries it suddenly becomes an insurance issue, and then you have a greater propensity to register. If you then go up and look at the store robberies, it is often violence or threats involved, and then you also have a greater propensity to register. However, the conclusion is that both burglary in stores and store robberies have decreased sharply in the last ten years. It's actually a halving of both of these parts of the crime. That is not to say that there is no need to impose a ban on access. I would like to say that it is the opposite. We have had that need for a long time, and this will be done by this government, as has been said. My questions to Andreas Carlson and Ingemar Kihlström are: If you thought this was so urgent – why did you release the ball during that time? Why didn't you do this when you had the chance? Why are you making sure that it is we who are going to do it? Perhaps when it comes to protecting and defending property rights in Sweden, it is sometimes a Social Democratic government that is needed for something really to happen.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-72	Mr President, I would like to I have tried, in this debate, to refrain from the fun game, and you did not, and you did not. However, given that the Minister of Justice has pointed out a great deal about the Alliance, I would like to point out that this is based on an announcement in the Committee on Justice. In 2017, Morgan Johansson's party voted against this in the light of the fact that an investigation had found that the reasons against access bans were stronger than the reasons that spoke for. The Alliance parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, received a majority in the Committee on Justice for an announcement in 2017 to come forward with a proposal for a ban on access. The government has had to deal with this, despite the fact that only two years ago the Social Democrats voted against it in the parliamentary committees. That's why we're worried. That is why we do not really trust the government on this issue either. We have seen this in other areas too; it takes time for the government. Why should we trust the government this time when, after a little pressure, the Minister of Justice is saying that we should see this declaration of intent as a promise? We have still not received a date or even a month for when the proposal will come to Parliament's table. In view of the fact that the Social Democrats voted against this just two years ago when we had seen the problem picture very clearly in Sweden, I think the question deserves a further explanation by Morgan Johansson. Why has it been so long? And why should we trust the government this time? From the Christian Democrats' side, we are prepared to take an initiative in the Parliamentary Committee on Justice in order to move forward sharply with legislation. We do not trust the ability of the government, given that it itself has voted against this as recently as two years ago in Parliament. That is the reason for the interpellation, and we will continue to do everything we can to get the legislation in place.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-77	Mr President, I would like to Now we have a basis on the government's table, and we have that as a result of setting up the investigation. I also told the investigation that they had to deliver proposals in this direction. What I am saying now is that the government will go ahead with this and that we will ensure that we submit a bill to Parliament in the spring so that the legislation can enter into force once we have said, that is, on 1 January 2021. Thus we deliver what you were unable to deliver. We do this because we think it is urgent to put an end to the type of abuse that can exist in some places when it comes to individuals who think that they can do little how they like in stores. I think this is an urgent matter. I'm going to move on with it. I will also make sure that we keep to the timetable that we have said. You can consider that a promise.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-80	Mr President, I would like to Ellen Juntti has asked me what I intend to do to reduce crime among young people up to 18 years of age, why I want to give penalty rebates to adult recidivists between 18 and 21 years of age and why I think it is right to give a quantity discount, i.e. that the penalty for each crime is lower the more crime the offender commits. It is important to combat both crime and the causes of crime. This government has carried out a series of penalties, including for serious violent crimes, and is now making the biggest ever effort on Swedish police. The Government's objective is to increase the number of police employees by 10 000 to 2024. Since 2016, the number has increased by almost 2 5 00. This is a gratifying development that will eventually make a big difference for a stronger society and a safer Sweden. During the last parliamentary term, the government has also tightened the recidivism regime in such a way that more acts will be judged as relapsing into crime and decided on trials with rapid criminal proceedings. These are measures that together counteract and mark the rejection of repeated crime by society. Young people should not commit crimes or be in situations where crimes are committed. To prevent this, many efforts are needed. We must have a school that works for everyone, a social service that picks up young people at risk and a housing building that reduces segregation. For young people who still commit crimes, reactions must be quick. We must also have clear and consistent sanctions that can help prevent and prevent young people from continuing to commit crimes. Research shows that repressive measures are more effective when combined with measures of a social nature. It is therefore important that society's actors cooperate on children and young people who are at risk of committing or committing crimes, as highlighted in the National Crime Prevention Programme Together against Crime. The government has recently presented the biggest package against gang crime ever in Sweden. The package includes a number of new tools for law enforcement authorities, tougher penalties and better crime prevention. Several of the package's actions are directed in whole or in part at young offenders. These include extending and permanent work on speeding up prosecution, improving investigations into children suspected of criminal offences, abolishing the youth reduction for young adults in serious crime and introducing the new penalty for youth surveillance. It is also about tightening the penalties for those recruiting young people for crime, adding additional funds to LVU placements, providing more high-quality Sis sites to prevent relapses in crime, improving social services' ability to intervene earlier and in more situations, and investing in schools and social services in socially vulnerable areas in the long term. I regret that no more parties could come together in an agreement on these important measures. It will require determination and gathering from all stakeholders in order to achieve success.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-88	Mr President, I would like to I have put this interpellation on juvenile delinquency and penalty rebates because it is an incredibly important subject. We have a very serious situation in Sweden when it comes to young criminals who commit grosser and grosser crimes. For example, robbery has increased rapidly. Often it is young men who rob children. I was going to pick up just a few headlines from the recent past. 中 Lonely men were robbed by a dozen people. There was a young man in Gothenburg who was surrounded in a garage by ten people who came closer to him and threatened with a knife. You can imagine what fear this guy must have felt as ten people approached and threatened him. They took everything but his underwear, and they cut off a piece of the ear. Do you understand? Cut off a piece of the ear! It has become so crude that it is simply not wise. Another headline reads, "Boy Knived." Got a knife pressed to his neck. There was a 12-year-old guy on his way to school in broad daylight. Then a robber comes and presses a knife to the neck — on a 12 - year - old boy! Most of us have children. Imagine sending a child to school, and then someone comes and puts a knife to the child's throat in broad daylight! It probably affects the child more or less for the rest of his life.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-92	♪ Teenagers attacked and stabbed in the back ♪ – stabbed in the back! It's become so gross that it's terrible. Society has lost control. This has become more or less everyday crime. Morgan Johansson's response to young criminals is that there is a need for rapid reaction and clear and consistent sanctions. Of course I agree. But there the government has actually failed miserably. Morgan Johansson also says that the new penalty for youth monitoring should be introduced. That's good, because we've been asking for that. As early as 2015, the Riksdag announced that it wanted the government to come up with a proposal on this. It was over four years ago, so one cannot at least call it a quick reaction on the part of the government. What is also a problem, I believe, is that the Swedish Prosecution Authority has since 2017 changed guidelines for when young people should be arrested. In principle, they can be arrested for a crime, then a short hearing is held and then they can only go out again. A few hours later, they can sit and have coffee with their friends and think that they are heroes and that nothing happened. It also happens several times with these new guidelines that you do not even hold a hearing with young people who are arrested but release them and call them for questioning later. These are certainly not quick and clear reactions. I'm actually pretty upset about this. I myself have worked in the youth division in Gothenburg and know that you have to show that they can't do what they want. Now it seems a little bit like they can do it. Therefore, my questions to Morgan Johansson are: When will the bill on youth monitoring come? Is he happy with the process, now that it's been four years? Does he think it's a quick reaction? Does Morgan Johansson further consider that the Prosecution Authority's new guidelines on releasing certain juvenile delinquents even before being questioned with them are reasonable? Is that a clear reaction? If he does not think so, would he consider doing something to change this?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-99	Mr President, I would like to First, perhaps you should nuance the discussion a little. The problem of robbery can't be denied. It is there, and we have also seen an increase in the number of reported personal robbery in recent years – a slight increase. Last year we had a little over 6,800 reported personal robbery. It's not the highest number ever. The highest number we have seen in modern times was when in 2011 we had over 7,200 robbery. However, we have seen developments in the matter and must act. That is why, in the 34-point programme, there are proposals to increase the means of arrest for, among other things, this particular crime, that is, robbery, in order to increase the detention of those who commit these crimes in anticipation of trial – much as we did when we tightened the penalties for the serious weapons crimes, where we now have an automatic detention pending trial. If you now leave home with a weapon that you are not entitled to, there is a great risk that you will not return home in two years. The 34-point programme identifies a number of crimes where we should increase the possibilities of detention, and robbery is one of them. But once that is said, I also think that, for the sake of honesty, the debate should bear in mind that the evidence that juvenile crime is on the increase is actually extremely weak. It is rather the opposite, I would say. The number of young people suspected of crime – now we are talking about the age group 15 to 20 years – has fallen by 20% in ten years. The number of young people in the same age group has fallen by 30 per cent. What has declined most is the crime of theft, assault and vandalism. Then there is the general picture, which Ellen Juntti tries to highlight, that young people are committing more and more crimes. Actually, I don't think that's true. On the other hand, we have concerns about limited groups involved in gang crime. We must go in there with tougher efforts than before. Among other things, the penalties may be increased to detention. Ellen Juntti shows in her interpellation that she has received the wording about the youth reduction in the wrong way. She writes that the government does not want to abolish the penalty rebate in the event of repeated serious crime, for 18 to 21-year-olds. It's just the opposite. That's exactly what we want to do. The programme explicitly states that we should abolish the penalty for young adults in the event of serious crime. We are now signing a directive on the revision of that particular regulatory framework. Why? Well, there is a risk that even when you are 18, 19, or 20 years old you have entered rather serious criminality. Then that behavior must be broken. This can often be done with penitentiary measures. That's why we have to move on with it. There is now a basis for this in an investigation that came at the end of last year. On behalf of the government, the investigation proposed to move forward with the abolition of youth reduction. The proposal is to remove youth reduction also for minor crimes. The question is how far to go in that regard. If I understand Ellen Juntti correctly, she wants to take the whole step, i.e. remove the reduction also for minor crime. But Ellen Junttis problem is that she hasn't funded it in her budget exercise. She has not spent the money that the correctional services would need in order to face it.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-107	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Morgan Johansson for his answer. The damage may have decreased, but serious crime among young people has increased. I worked for three years in the late 80s and early 90s as a youth investigator in Gothenburg. It wasn't this gross robbery, you cut the ear off young guys you rob, you stick the knife straight into the back almost for no reason at all, you kick people down anyway and stand and stomping them in the head and everything you do. Serious crime has become much more serious. As far as the penalty rebate is concerned, we Moderates want to remove it altogether. We think that an adult is an adult. So did Löfven a few years ago when he was in Gothenburg. Then he said it would go away. But apparently it's the Green Party that decides. Now it has become a slightly weaker proposal. It says that it is being implemented in the case of repeated serious crime. So, as I understand it, there will be no reduction in the first serious crime. You can commit a crime for which the minimum sentence is one year's imprisonment and get a reduction. However, if you are to be convicted of a new crime for which the minimum sentence is two years in prison, the reduction will also be used. So, as I understand it, abolition only applies when a second offence is committed, for which the minimum penalty is two. Let us remember that for aggravated assault, the minimum sentence is one and a half years in prison. For robbery, the minimum sentence is one year's imprisonment. For aggravated theft, such as burglary in homes, the minimum sentence is six months in prison. Morgan Johansson is welcome to correct me, but as I read this one gets if you commit the crimes that I have mentioned penalty reduction because the minimum penalty is not two years but lower. This would mean, for example, that for robberies, for which the minimum penalty is one year, you can commit robbery after robbery and still get a reduction in punishment. It says that there can be a reduction in punishment when you are sentenced for a new crime with a minimum sentence of two years in prison. Robbery has a minimum sentence of one year in prison. Morgan Johansson is welcome to explain to me if this is not the case. What's the plan there? My question is simply: does Morgan Johansson think that it is reasonable to commit robbery after robbery and still have a reduction in penalties, given that the minimum penalty for robbery is one year's imprisonment?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-114	Mr President, I would like to It's not just the theft crimes that have gone down on the youth side. It's also a matter of assault and vandalism, just so we're clear about it. Ellen Juntti refers to what it was like in the early 90s. Sometimes you have to look at the overall development. In the case of serious crimes, for example, there was a greater risk of being killed in Sweden in 1990 than it is today. In fact, the number of cases of lethal violence per capita has decreased since 1990. This is not always heard in the debate. But that's the way it is. At the time Ellen Juntti was active, at least the existence of such serious and severe violence was more frequent than now. Perhaps that picture and the nuance of the debate should be taken at times. As far as youth reduction is concerned, our aim is to abolish the reduction of penalties in the event of serious crime. We are now signing the directives. When we're done with them, you'll see how we do with the direction. But it will be a long process after that. With regard to the link to robbery, I would like to point out that in another paragraph of the 34-point programme we are pointing out robbery as an area in which we should go forward with more detention and perhaps also raise the scale of penalties for that particular crime. My aim is to provide us with effective means of judging those who systematically commit those crimes. Ellen Junttis problem in this debate is that she stands here and promises things. She says that the penalty should be removed for all crime, including the mild one. We should remember that it does not have the support of the referral bodies in the investigation. Virtually all the referrals make severe criticism of taking the whole step. Ellen Juntti promises she'll take the whole package. It is a cost of 1.1 billion to abolish the penalty for young people also for the minor crimes. Then I'll be curious. Have the Moderates financed it in their budget bill? The answer is no. Of course, the Moderates have not, quite the opposite. The background is that the Moderates systematically underfinance the correctional system. A year ago, this Parliament decided on a new budget for 2019. It was based on the reservations of the Moderates and Christian Democrats and was supported by the Swedish Democrats. You pushed your budget through, Ellen Juntti. The Correctional Service had requested SEK 395 million. How much did the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats get? They got 85 million, less than a quarter of what they would have had. The first thing we had to do when we took office was to increase the funding for the Prison Service by over 300 million this spring and by an additional 200 million for this year. We have thus had to pour more than half a billion SEK into the Prison Service this year, to cover what the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats could not cope with. Mr President, I would like to You cannot stand in this House and demand ever higher penalties for everything and the removal of penalties for everything and at the same time not to finance the prison system. Then you have no credibility. My basic question is: if you want to abolish the penalty reduction and are going to take the whole package, that is to say remove the penalty reduction for all crimes, even for the minor crimes, why do you not fund it in your budget motion?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-124	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your answer. Morgan Johansson doesn't have to worry about my problems. He has quite a few of his own. He dribbles away the penalty reduction by making it more of a budget debate. We Moderates are spending almost 2.5 billion more than the government on the judiciary for next year. We also invest a great deal in the prison services. Morgan Johansson is not really answering my question. Apparently, I've got it right. You can still get a reduction in the penalty if you commit a crime for which the minimum penalty is one year instead of two, that is, robbery. You can rob after a robbery and still get a penalty reduction. But Morgan Johansson does not really want to answer this, which I do understand. I wouldn't want that either if I were in his clothes. Let me turn to my last question, which was about quantity discounts. We Moderates want to remove the quantity discount on crimes, which is totally reprehensible. At the same trial you will receive full punishment for the first crime and 50% reduction already in the second crime. In the third crime, only 30% of the sentence is given at the same trial. For example, if someone has committed three rapes, the person receives only 30% of the punishment for the third rape. How do you feel about the victim? We in the Moderates want to change this so that you get full punishment for the three gravest crimes. This would mean that even for a third rape the perpetrator would receive a proper punishment. This would increase prison time by 60 - 70 percent. However, the government does not seem to want to do anything about this. You obviously think the quantity discount is good. Why are you doing this?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-131	Mr President, I would like to Ellen Juntti says they're spending more money on the justice system. But the Moderates don't spend so much money on the judiciary that they cover the costs that Ellen Juntti is now incurring. If this whole package were to be implemented, including the removal of minor crimes from impunity, it would cost 1.1 billion. Moreover, taking this step as a whole is almost a deterrent to any consultation body. The Moderates have not covered these costs in their budget exercise, and let alone for the change that Ellen Juntti proposes in terms of what is called a quantity discount. If you are going to do something about it, you must also be prepared to spend more money. If we were to walk away from the Moderates, we'd be standing with a running bill from the Correctional Service. So we would not care that these costs would increase. In the 34-point programme, we say two things about what Ellen Juntti has mentioned. We will review the penalties for some of the crimes committed by the gangs. This is, for example, a matter of gross blackmail and aggravated assault, but also of robbery. Then we will review the scale of penalties for this. This, of course, will have an impact on how to view youth reduction. We are writing directives in both of these parts right now, but the direction of the government is the one I have put forward, namely that we want to create increased detention opportunities for those who commit serious crime of this kind. We need to do this in order to break this behavior. However, we do not intend to go forward with measures which we do not then fund. Perhaps the Moderates will, but we won't. We will ensure that all the measures we take are also fully funded.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-136	Mr President, I would like to AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has asked me whether I and the government intend to ensure that all blue-light personnel, including rescue personnel, will receive official status in order to obtain stronger protection against threats and violence. Let me start by saying that there should be no pre-emptive attack on those responsible for helping others and preventing them from carrying out their duties. Functions and activities that are central to the functioning of our society must, of course, be able to carry out their tasks without being prevented or delayed by criminal attacks. In order to strengthen the criminal law protection of central bluelight operations – police, rescue services and ambulance services – the Government has proposed a new crime – sabotage of bluelight operations – which is punishable by a criminal offence to attack or otherwise interfere with police, rescue or ambulance services, if the act is liable to seriously impede or impede emergency or law enforcement activities. Documents covered by the crime include violence and threats to bluelight personnel, including rescue personnel, and persons assisting bluelight operations. Civil protection personnel are thus given even greater protection in criminal matters than they are today. The amendments will enter into force on 1 January 2020. In addition, the Government has in recent years taken several legislative measures to strengthen criminal law protection against violence, threats and harassment. Among other things, the scale of penalties for certain serious violent crimes has been tightened and the protection of personal integrity has been strengthened and modernised, for example by extending the punishable area of illegal threats. There must be strong protection for both the one exercising authority and the one performing social functions without doing so. It was, among other things, against this background that the Government decided in December 2016 to instruct a special investigator to consider, among other things, which societal functions should be covered by enhanced criminal law protection. The report "Strengthening criminal law protection for bluelight activities and other societal functions" proposes a penalty for attacks on all professionals. However, like several consultation bodies, the Government considers that it is doubtful whether the proposed penalty would have the intended effect and that it can be foreseen to give rise to significant problems of application. The government has therefore chosen to propose, in a first step, the new crime of sabotage against blue light operations. As the government states in the bill, the question of which societal functions are in need of enhanced criminal protection and how such protection can best be achieved requires further investigation work. A future investigation may propose amendments to Chapter 17. The penal code. At the moment, these issues are being analysed in the Government Office, and I intend to return shortly with a mission to an investigator to consider such enhanced protection.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-143	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think the Minister certainly has good intentions, but the government is missing the essentials of my question. The answer states that the government is trying to protect the business, but the law on blue light abotage does not protect the individual community bearer who performs his work and his duty. The Bluelight Abotage Act makes it a criminal offence to interfere with, prevent or attack civil protection in a way that hinders or delays its work. It is wise to provide a modern criminal law protection for blue light personnel. But there are further and urgent reinforcements to be made, and then the government cannot bring out blue light abotage as a shield. You have to get to grips with the issue. All blue-light personnel have a special need for protection and should be granted official status. Mr President, I would like to I'd like to ask the Minister a few questions. Watchers, bus drivers and taxi drivers have official status. Does the Minister think it is more important for a taxi to arrive unthreated than for a rescue force or ambulance to do so? Of course, I do not want to pit occupational groups against each other, because safety and security are important everywhere. However, society must highlight more clearly against threats and violence against society's representatives. Why is it so difficult for society to show the same respect for firefighters and paramedics as for the police? What is it that makes the government seem unwilling to give these officials the status of real personal protection of value?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-147	Mr President, I would like to Like everyone else, I find it unacceptable for people whose job is to save lives and protect us to be attacked. Criminal protection in these respects must be strong. That is why we asked the investigator, the former Prosecutor General Anders Perklev, to review the criminal law protection for both the blue light area and in general. He would also make proposals to increase the overall level of protection in criminal matters. Some of the legislation we have been able to go forward with, namely blue light abotage. That, in my opinion, is a strong piece of legislation. It means that if you attack an ambulance, police or emergency services in an emergency situation, you get hit by this legislation. The scale of penalties is high if it has consequential effects, which it may well have if, for example, the rescue services are prevented from pulling out to extinguish a fire and it ends with people dying or being seriously injured. You can get up to life imprisonment for this crime. The very point of the law is to send a very clear and powerful signal to those who can think of doing so. You should know what you're risking. There are also other parts of the investigation. It is about the general basis of punishment for people who practice their profession. For that matter, we received quite extensive criticism of referrals. That is why we have said that we should further examine this particular issue. I see, of course, that there may also be a need for criminal law protection for other professions, in addition to blue-light personnel, who perform important social functions. Healthcare professionals are such a professional group. Journalists are also such a professional group. We know that some are attacking them for various reasons and that there may be a threat. As I said, that proposal in the study received extensive criticism of referrals, but we are now working on directives for a new review so that we can meet a wider circle of professionals working with important societal functions. We are in the final stages of the preparation of those directives. I look forward to the fact that the investigation can be set up at the beginning of next year and that, as I see it, we will therefore be able to submit proposals to Parliament during this parliamentary term in order to further strengthen the criminal protection of these professions.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-152	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It's good that you're working on the question. I just think this should be here and now. I'm going to take the liberty of getting a little personal. In 2016, on 26 April, a traffic accident occurred on the E6 outside Munkedal. Rescue Service My Bohuslän had come out. Ambulance was in place. The blue lights were spinning. The barrier vehicles were set up to protect the entrance of the accident area. In the rescue work, a larger passenger car was forced off at motorway speed. The car drove past the stagnant sex, rammed the first heavy-duty barrier vehicle and drove into another vehicle before the fireman, who stood in the rescue area with his back, was hit. The force and speed of the impact moment caused the fireman to perish immediately. The fireman's name was Krister Karlsson. The accident, of course, brought a trauma to the rescue services, to the family and to others involved. But the driver in the car had to be without a driver's license for a few months and received SEK 11 200 in daily tickets. If it is not to be understood that it is acceptable to seriously harm or kill those who have their work on the road or bluelight personnel in rescue work, something must be done. That it would be legitimate to kill a person in the course of service just because you are in a vehicle is very difficult to absorb. The legislation must be reviewed and the penalty increased, so that respect, responsibility and consistency on the roads are strengthened. Survivor protection needs to be improved. When the accident occurs in the emergency services, it is not reasonable that survivors have to rely on the collection from colleagues and friends in order for them to be able to cope with their economic day-to-day in the midst of shock and grief. The fact that civil protection and ambulance staff do not have official status is incomprehensible to me, Mr President. I would like to ask the Minister why this particular issue did not come into the blue light investigation. It is extremely problematic that society outside this House is losing its trust and is increasingly exposing civil protection to violence in the performance of its duties and that respect for emergency vehicles on the move is being reduced. But, Mr President, I think I know that there is an overwhelming majority in this House that is in favour of better protecting our bearers of society. I would therefore like to put this question to the Minister: what other measures can help to ensure greater respect for blue-light personnel in society and to provide more secure working conditions and the possibility of providing civil protection services in the future as well?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-160	Mr President, I would like to I cannot, of course, comment on individual legal cases. But this attack or this accident--I don't know what the motive looks like-- occurred before the blue light abotage crime, which will be in place on 1 January 2020. This crime means that if you attack, for example, emergency services personnel who carry out their work, you will be hit by that legislation and thus also by that scale of penalties. Then we will see how practice develops in that part. But since I know too little about the very background to this particular event, I will not speculate too much about it. I can only say that, from 1 January onwards, the view of events and attacks of this kind will be tightened up, as it were. And it's a good scale of punishment, as I said. If you attack rescue services, police or ambulances in this way, we have a scale of punishment that can give up to life in prison. That was precisely the purpose, and it does not matter in that sense whether you have official status or not. This, in turn, depends on whether you can be judged to be engaged in the exercise of authority. That's how you hang official status. But, as I said, we are now signing directives for a further review, in general terms, of the protection of criminal law. I look forward to the investigation work starting at the beginning of next year. I am open to implementing all measures to ensure that criminal protection is further strengthened, but it must be done in such a way as to actually catch exactly the situations that are being addressed. Let us continue to have a dialogue on what legislative rigours we would have to do in that case. The government is, of course, open to such dialogue.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-165	Mr President, I would like to It is uplifting that the Minister says he wants to meet me in this. I would like to thank the Minister for that. But it has taken almost four years to get the law on blue light abotage in place – three to four years. Therefore, Mr President, I would like the Minister to open up to this idea: if there is no legitimate reason, do not set up an investigation, but take the decision! The decision is easily made possible by including the professional group together with the other professions in the Act on the Protection of Certain Services. It is not contrary to the system as a whole but appears to be an appropriate exception in line with the other groups in the protected circle of persons under Chapter 17. Section 5 of the Criminal Code. The rescue service My Bohuslän's rescue manager was together with Krister's partner here in the Riksdag with a large petition to get tougher penalties for violence and threats to blue light personnel and for survivors' protection to be reviewed and improved. It is not reasonable to kill an esteemed colleague on duty, a beloved parent and a life companion and avoid prison. The response of society must be clearer and tougher. Our legal system must stand up for the community. I hope the minister takes note of the petition and the petition We are you.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-170	Mr President, I would like to Now it should be remembered that the Riksdag has just voted through tougher penalties for those who attack blue light personnel. You just did. On 1 January, the new blue light abotage offence will be introduced. This means that if you attack emergency services, police or ambulance personnel, you can be hit by that crime. Then you can get up to life in prison, depending on the consequences. Maybe you should keep that in mind. Then today I have said that I am prepared to extend this to other professions, such as health professionals and journalists. That's what's at the core of the new investigation. If we are going to do something further for civil protection, then we will have to analyse it. But you should know that this is not something that the government and parliament can only decide, but it must be preceded by an investigation. That is the case with all the legislation that we produce, because it must work with other legislation, and courts must know how to judge. Official status is about whether or not you engage in the exercise of authority. However, we should not lock ourselves in a legal solution, but the important thing is to strengthen the criminal protection of the staff we are talking about. The legal technique, in other words, which paragraphs you change, is not something we can lock up to. From 1 January onwards, the legislation on blue light abotage will provide us with a much stronger and stricter framework for those who attack personnel whose task is to protect us and save lives. I am fundamentally proud that we have been able to move on with this. Then we go forward with further investigation. Of course, I am happy to take part in the petition and have a continued dialogue with the Riksdag on other legislative measures.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-176	Mr President, I would like to Ann-Sofie Alm has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to counter the consequences of the inadequate allocation of resources to the migration courts in the Government's budget bill. The number of asylum seekers has fallen sharply in recent years, but the administrative courts are still facing considerable challenges. P rognoses for the coming years argue for a continued high but gradually decreasing influx of migration cases to the courts. At the same time, there is a large balance of objectives that has not yet been decided. Long waiting times put pressure on the asylum seeker, but also high costs for society. The government has taken a number of measures to improve the conditions for asylum seekers to have a faster decision while maintaining legal certainty. One such measure is that the Riksdag, on the initiative of the Government, recently decided to extend the possibility for the administrative courts that are immigration courts to hand over cases to other administrative courts. The proposal aims to improve the conditions for the courts to keep the duration of proceedings at a reasonable level by taking advantage of the overall capacity of the general administrative courts. Another measure has been to provide more resources. The Moderates and Christian Democrats awarded the Migration Courts an amount that was significantly lower than the National Board of Justice's forecast of needs. The first thing the government had to do was therefore to contribute approximately SEK 200 million in the spring change budget for 2019. The Government is also now proposing an additional SEK 122 million in the budget bill for 2020. The government has also taken steps to make good use of the waiting time in the asylum process. In 2017, we introduced a new state grant for early intervention for asylum seekers. The aim of early intervention is to counteract passivisation, to facilitate contacts with the Swedish labour market and to promote the establishment of work and social life for those who are granted a residence permit. Furthermore, municipalities and county councils continue to be entitled to compensation from the state throughout the asylum process for actions that they are obliged to provide for asylum seekers.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-183	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. My question is ultimately about the social contract and about something as fundamental in a rule of law as confidence in our courts. I would argue that with very long procedural times already now being extended, confidence in our courts is in danger of being disturbed by the public. This, Mr President, is something incredibly serious. The government's budget has not provided the migration courts with sufficient resources to carry out their mission, which is remarkable. The most remarkable thing about the entire reduction, however, is that the Migration Agency calculates that the savings on courts generate increased costs that exceed the savings on the courts. Mr President, I would like to There is absolutely no logic in why the cuts are made. Why does the government make such a cut in the migration courts when it leads to increased costs, longer processing times and, above all, the consequence that the Minister also mentioned, namely an increase in mental health when more people live longer in total uncertainty about their future? We in the Moderates are putting in our budget resources for the migration courts to carry out their mission. Although the government is sometimes too ideological for its own good and therefore does not listen to our wise proposals, it should at least listen to the trade unions. The Social Insurance Committee received a letter from trade unions Saco-S and ST at the Migration Courts in Malmö and Gothenburg describing that the government's reductions lead to both work environment problems and longer processing times. The Ministry of Justice and Minister Morgan Johansson received the letter for information, Mr President. The letter describes the tangible consequences of, among other things, work-related stress due to excessive workload, the disappearance of recruitment opportunities and a negative impact on legal certainty. Mr President, I would like to Trade unions write the following: The government's budget gives a picture of the migration courts being given funds to shorten the length of proceedings. However, this picture is not compatible with the real situation. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he believes that the trade unions speak untruely in their statement, or whether it is the case that the government goes with beautifying untruths in the budget they present to the people's representatives here in Parliament.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-192	Mr President, I would like to AnnAnn-Sofie Alm is worried that trust in the courts will decrease. I would just like to say that the opposite is true. Confidence in courts in Sweden in general is increasing, which is also going against a trend that we have in many other parts of Europe where the population's confidence in courts tends to decrease. But in Sweden it is increasing, and I am basically proud and happy about that. With regard to the immigration courts, it should be remembered that the background is that we receive considerably fewer asylum seekers now than we did a few years ago. When I took office five years ago, Sweden received 15% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU. This was the case in Moderates' time – 15% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU came to Sweden. Today that figure is 3%. This compares with the fact that Sweden's population makes up about 2% of the EU's population. So we are now about where we will be proportional to the legislative changes that we pushed through in 2015 and 2016. These legislative changes helped to bring the number of asylum seekers down to Sweden so that we could manage the task, quite simply. The number of asylum seekers in Sweden is now the lowest in 13 years. We also see that we are through the hump from 2015 and 2016. It meant that we first had to expand the Migration Board considerably. We were up to over 8,000 employees at the Migration Agency. Now we are down to about 4,000 employees, i.e. a half in a few years. We do not need as many employees at the Finnish Immigration Service when there are fewer asylum seekers. It's the same with the immigration courts. There we doubled the number of employees between 2014 and 2018. The number of goals decided in 2018 was the highest ever, which was part of beta of the hump, i.e. the result of everyone who came in 2015 and 2016. Now we're working on goal after goal. Balances, i.e. the number of pending cases, are falling sharply this year. From over 14 700 a year ago, we are now down to 7,300, which is the latest figure from October this year. The balances in the migration courts have thus been halved in just one year, and we see that next year the balances will be further reduced to 5 800. It's a sign that you pick a goal after a goal and you're on your way down to that part. The cost of the migration courts must therefore be reduced. We cannot remain on the same high number of employees now that we had then, that is, when we had so many asylum seekers and so many cases. Then the Moderates think it has gone too fast to reduce the suit, that there should have been more money. If it is the view of the Moderates, AnnAnn-Sofie Alm, that the Migration Courts should have more money, why did you underfunded the Migration Courts with SEK 250 million in the budget that you decided in Parliament a year ago? So it was the 2019 budget that you got through with the help of the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. There, the Moderates financed the migration courts with SEK 250 million – a quarter of a billion. It is clear that it faced us with a situation when we came back in government in January – the first thing we had to do was to pour in another 200 million SEK for 2019 and then 120 million more for 2020. If this is so urgent for you, why did you subsidize the migration courts with a quarter of a billion last year?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-202	Mr President, I would like to The simple answer to that question is that the migration courts are now receiving the resources they need from the Moderates to carry out their mission. I suppose the Minister himself will have to answer the trade unions if he thinks that they are going with untruth or not in their statement. The fact that the government did not see the increased resource needs of the migration courts coming and that it would be a surprise, I think, is highly unlikely. With the policy established by the government with the help of the January parties, immigration to Sweden and hence the workload of the immigration courts increases. When many residence permits are granted, a natural consequence is that other migration targets, i.e. related and citizenship objectives, are increased. They will increase sharply. The Finnish Immigration Service still has thousands of oral hearings in asylum cases to deal with. It dismays me that the government does not see that behind every fine word that refers to these goals – connecting targets, migration targets, asylum negotiations – and behind every figure is a person whose life is on pause. Extending the pause with insufficient budgetary resources to the migration courts is not what a human power stands for. It is not socially justifiable, even when the government says that the money should go to an extra family week. Mr President, I would like to The Government has set operational targets for the Finnish Immigration Service. The government says that most of the other migration targets will be decided within five months. Short decision-making time is good, and that is exactly why the Moderates allocate sufficient resources to the migration courts. Mr President, I would like to With the government's thinking, as it calls the budget, these migration cases will have a waiting period of several years before they are finally decided. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Justice and Migration how the Migration Agency will achieve the Government's objectives with the delaying economic uphill that the Government's budget has put the work into. Or does the Minister intend to carry out other reforms to prevent the migration courts from becoming a bottleneck in the migration system? What are these reforms?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-207	Mr President, I would like to It came as no surprise at all that we had to put resources into the migration courts so that they could handle the hump. We doubled the number of employees at the Migration Courts in 2014– 2018. We created a situation where they could make more decisions than ever before in 2018 – all-time high. Now there is a situation, as I have explained, where the balance is decreasing. Balances have been halved in one year. The forecast is that they will continue to decline next year. Basically, there is a situation where the processing times of the Migration Agency are also reduced. When Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm talks about several years of waiting time, you should know that the forecast is that there may be nine months' waiting time, but the development that it will be several years to get a decision in a migration court does not look forward to me – especially given that the number of asylum seekers is lower than in 13 years. It is a question of reducing the suit of the immigration courts as the number of cases falls, and they are doing so now. Mr President, I would like to If AnnAnn-Sofie Alm was so worried about the migration courts, why did she subsidize them for 2019? Now she says the Moderates want to give more money. But that money would have been needed by the courts this year. It turned out that when the Moderates underfunded the courts with a quarter of a billion was the first thing we had to do when we got back in January to raise another 200 million dollars. We did then. For next year there will be another 120 million. When you hear Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm you might think that the Moderates are covering up for what the Migration Courts have requested, but that is not the case. You're about $100 million below what they're asking for. They don't get enough money according to their way of looking at it from you either. This is an effect of the fact that there have been a high number of asylum seekers over a few years. The operation was greatly expanded and should now be reduced to fit the new situation. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm talks about increased immigration as a result of what the government is doing in other areas, but if she looks at the development of asylum immigration, that picture is not visible at all. For both the number of asylum seekers and the number of relatives, we are also through that hump, that is, how many relatives join former asylum seekers. Family migration has halved from 2018 to 2019, and it continues to decrease. I know there are signals that this is a strained situation in many places. The government will, of course, continue to monitor developments. There will be more budget negotiations and discussions on how different authorities should be resourced. There are always opportunities for the government to act. But the underlying development and the underlying strategy is that we have to make sure that when we're through the hump– which we are now– the suit also needs to be reduced so that it is in line with the needs that will be in the coming years.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-213	Mr President, I would like to I've been eavesdropping a little! Morgan Johansson usually in debates in his concluding post danger with the claim that the Moderates dismantle welfare. But, Mr President, I would like to say that this is precisely what the Socialist Government is doing. Worse still, with insufficient resources for the migration courts, the government is dismantling not only the welfare but also the well-being of the people who are actually at stake, those who are waiting for decisive decisions on the future. One can only imagine how the person who is passively has to wait to start his life's journey towards a better life, which depends on a decision by the Migration Court. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Minister for Justice and Migration if the government is aware that, as a result of the budget they have presented, the immigration courts will need to reduce their staffing considerably. The Minister has raised this point. This also means that productivity will decrease with fewer goals as a result. Mr President, I would like to Is the Minister aware of the increase in mental illness resulting from the frustration that many feel and will feel? Is the government aware of the security risk when many people have to wait for decisions on the future? If there is awareness, would it not be wise to table an additional amending budget – redo and do the right thing?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-217	Mr President, I would like to I'm sure it's true that I often point out that the Moderates are dismantling our welfare. That's what happens when the Moderates get the chance. Tax cuts always take precedence over spending on welfare. That is always the case, and so was last year. You reduced the tax by over SEK 20 billion a year ago. This took precedence over initiatives in this area, among other areas. The Moderates underfunded the migration courts with SEK 250 million to accommodate other priorities, where tax cuts, especially for the most wealthy in our society, had to take precedence over everything else. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm stands here now, a year later, saying that the immigration courts have too little money. I think she should have acted already a year ago and made sure that they had the resources they should have had – and not, Mr President, put us in a position where the first thing we had to do when we returned in January was to spend another 200 million to cover the under-financing created by the Moderates. Now the underlying picture is that Sweden receives many fewer asylum seekers than we did five years ago. We have gone from 15% of all those who came to Europe to Sweden to 3% of all those who come to the EU coming to Sweden. We have the lowest reception for asylum in 13 years. Now that the Migration Agency and the Migration Courts are over the hump, so to speak, the suit must be reduced. The number of employees cannot remain at the level of the migration courts in the past. One will have to reduce that suit, simply because that money is needed in other areas. I see a sharp decline in balances, both this year and the coming year. But, of course, I am following developments in the migration courts very closely. We'll see if we need to do anything else.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-222	Mr President, I would like to Larry Söder has asked me, on the one hand, whether I would like to evaluate the effects of the chemical tax from both economic and labour market aspects, and, on the other hand, whether I would like to change the tax so that it becomes, if possible, at European level. First of all, I would like to clear up some misconceptions on this issue. Larry Söder states that the tax was expected to increase tax revenue by SEK 2.4 billion. This figure comes from the Chemical Taxation Report and is based on the proposal presented there. That proposal was never implemented. The estimated tax revenue for the government proposal, which was then implemented, was lower. Larry Söder also states that the tax is very negative against companies that buy old electronics, renovate it and then sell it to other countries or businesses that cannot or do not need to buy new equipment. However, the law provides for an exception for goods for which tax liability has previously taken place. Thus, already taxed goods are not taxed again. For operators who have registered with the Swedish Tax Agency as a storekeeper, there is also an exception for goods delivered to a buyer in another country. As regards evaluation of the tax, on 28 November 2019 the Government submitted a mandate to the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate to evaluate the effects of the chemical tax. The evaluation covers, among other things, the socio-economic impact, the administrative burden on companies and authorities and the subjects covered by the law. The Ministry of Finance has developed a memorandum on how the tax can be changed to include sales from foreign sellers directly to Swedish consumers who are currently exempt from taxation. The memorandum is for referral until 10 January 2020.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-226	Mr President, I would like to Trying to get us as citizens to choose what is right from an environmental perspective with policy instruments is basically a good thing. However, it is important to design this in such a way that it has the desired effect. It is all too often that we receive reports to the Riksdag from the Swedish National Audit Office where it is considered that the analysis and effectiveness is too poor in relation to what one wants to achieve with the various measures. We are looking at this specific case and what purpose it was intended to achieve. The purpose of the electronics tax is to reduce the use of dangerous chemicals in gadgets we all use in our everyday lives. The method of doing so is to tax the storage of products containing these dangerous substances. Have these aims been achieved? Although the Minister for Finance's response criticises the figure of 2.4 billion to which I referred, it can be said that the budgeted sum has not been reached. The aim has therefore not been achieved in economic terms. But the environmental objectives that were the basis of the tax must have been achieved, right? No, I'd say you haven't. This is because the tax currently only applies to those who have stockholding in Sweden and we citizens quite often do not see the difference between whether the goods we buy online are stocked in Sweden or abroad. So we have not bought less of this type of goods, but rather more. Goods without these chemicals are not available on the market. Thus we have bought the same type of goods, only at a lower cost abroad instead of in Sweden. So neither the economic nor the environmental impact has been achieved. What is the government doing in that situation? Well, you raise the electronics tax. Throughout history you learn about the future, it is said. In this case, the increase in the electronic tax will add to the negative effects and will not help achieve the desired objectives. It is incomprehensible to me that we should choose to do this before we have found a way of achieving the environmental or economic objectives. As I suggest in my interpellation, the right way should be to make an assessment of the labour market and economic impact of the electronic tax. I note that the Minister for Finance did not respond to my point that perhaps we have lost 1 000 jobs in Sweden because of this tax. With the same system but higher electronics tax, we do not need an investigation to understand that more and more jobs are being moved abroad – jobs that will be difficult to get back home. In view of the economic performance of the state on this tax burden, we are thus losing employers' contributions and income tax for at least 1 000 jobs. I have noted that the government has launched an investigation in order to try to have similar rules also for those who sell to Swedish consumers. This is good, but should have been preceded by an evaluation of the whole from both economic and labour market aspects. I have two questions for the Minister for Finance. What is the Finance Minister's assessment of the number of jobs that we in Sweden have lost to other European countries because of the design of the electronics tax today? What is the assessment by the Minister of Finance that the increase will mean in job losses over the next few years?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-239	Mr President, I would like to It is quite correct that the tax is less than the government assessed when the proposal was presented. After all, it is always difficult to assess how much a new tax will be imposed. It is based on a series of assumptions, so it is not uncommon that it may look a little different. It could also be that the tax has a greater steering effect than the government thought and therefore brings in less, i.e. that people choose goods with less chemicals. That could also be an explanation. That is precisely why we have set up an investigation – to be able to study what has happened on the market. The socio-economic impact should also be assessed, including, of course, the impact on employment. Instead of being here speculating, it is better to wait for this investigation so that we have a good factual basis to discuss from outside.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-242	Mr President, I would like to I think it is good when we as consumers can make obvious environmental choices. Then it is good if we can choose between a product without these chemicals and a product with these chemicals that are much more expensive and with taxing. The problem with the electronic tax is that we cannot make that choice. The goods on both sides contain the same type of chemicals. This means that we can only choose between a more expensive product and a cheaper product. As a consumer, I choose the cheaper product, because it is exactly the same. Then it is abroad, and that means that we lose jobs in Sweden. I think this is a bad policy. They should be evaluated clearly before proceeding with the chemical tax. For those companies that carry out this type of activity, it is a large administration around the chemical tax. Many of these companies are small and run by few people, who will be able to manage the administration and the practicalities of the company but also know these rules and be able to manage them in the best way. As the Minister of Finance says, exemptions can be made for goods that are used and for which tax has been paid in the past; you do not have to pay chemical tax twice. The only problem is that companies cannot prove that they have already paid taxes on these goods. This means that all goods are subject to the tax. Otherwise, we would need an even greater administration on this. This is the problem, as I see it. We believe that the premium for the use of goods should be used and sold again. But that is not possible in practice, because in many cases the tax is more expensive than the product itself. I would argue that the purpose of such a tax should be that the state should not receive a single crown because it does not want goods containing this type of chemicals to be used. But the fact is that it is being done, and there will be no less tax because consumers are not in a position to choose another option. To point to the discussion and see if the Finance Minister can still discuss the lost jobs, I would argue that the Finance Minister is selling out more than a thousand jobs for a few billion in tax revenue. Do you think it doesn't matter if these jobs are lost in Sweden and moved abroad? Or do you want to make a real evaluation and see how we can get these jobs back to Sweden? E-commerce is growing all the time. This is not something that will decrease in the future, but I think the number of jobs that disappear abroad will increase if nothing is done about it.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-250	Mr President, I would like to It's a little hard to understand the interpellier at all times. One shortcoming of the chemical tax is that it does not cover purchases made directly from abroad. This is based on the fact that there are no Swedish intermediaries. We want to correct this through the proposal that is now being referred, but Larry Söder seems to be against this too – moving forward to reduce the risk of trade moving abroad. I think it's good that we go further and strengthen so that the risk is reduced for us to lose Swedish jobs with this tax. It is important to evaluate the tax properly; there I fully share the opinion of the interpellier. That is precisely why the government has commissioned the tax to be evaluated so that we can then see how we can develop it in the best possible way. It is important to have a tax to reduce the number of dangerous substances in our immediate environment. Not least, we know that it is not good for children to grow up in environments where there are very dangerous chemicals. That is the purpose of this treasure.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-253	Mr President, I would like to I said in my first speech that I noted that the government had set up the investigation. I think it is fundamentally good, because it will be more equal for companies in Sweden to those in Europe. However, the basis for the chemicals or electronics tax problem remains. We as consumers cannot choose a product that does not contain these chemicals, for there is no such thing as choosing. At present, we have to choose between a more expensive or a cheaper product, and in most cases it comes from the rest of Europe. Then the Swedish consumer naturally chooses the product. My idea is that we are fundamentally discussing why we have this tax at all if we cannot achieve the objective we want to achieve. Then it is only one way of bringing tax money to the state. The consequence will then be that for a few billion dollars into the Treasury, thousands or more jobs will move abroad. I cannot see that neither my party nor that of the Minister for Finance can think that this is fundamentally good. Then it is better to make a thorough evaluation. What is the goal of such a treasure? If the target is not met, it should be changed to do so. There are several grants and taxes of this type that according to the Swedish National Audit Office were not thoroughly analysed and are not effective. This is also one of the taxes that I believe the Swedish National Audit Office would criticise if they could control it.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-258	Mr President, I would like to Larry Söder is very focused on the figure of 1,000 jobs. But this is not something we know without an assumption that Larry Söder makes. It is important that we make a proper evaluation of this tax and see what its effects have been. In addition, the government is now taking measures to reduce the risk that it will lead to job transfers to other countries by also taxing goods purchased from other countries. We are therefore about to remedy this problem. Larry Söder forgets there's a problem. It is not good that children in Sweden grow up in environments where there are very dangerous chemicals – that we have plenty of appliances in our homes that contain many dangerous chemicals. It's dangerous for children's health. We want to remedy this. Helping consumers choose a product that contains fewer dangerous chemicals via a tax is an excellent way to protect our children. Some chemicals are to be banned, as is also the case, at both Swedish and EU level. Other chemicals we can steer away from through taxation. That's how you control consumers so they make wiser choices. It's about protecting our children, which is our future.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-262	Mr President, I would like to Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether it is happening that Sida-funded relief organisations pay taxes to the Taliban in Afghanistan and, if so, how I will act. In addition, Ludvig Aspling has asked about ARTF's Anti-Corruption and Results Monitoring Action Plan from 2017 worked and, if not, how I intend to monitor how Swedish aid is used. Anti-corruption work is a priority for me personally and an important component of the government's democratic drive. Careful monitoring and transparency are crucial for maintaining the credibility and effectiveness of aid. It is therefore welcome that Swedish aid is being examined. Sweden is a long-term partner in Afghanistan's quest for peace and sustainable development. Sida is responsible for the implementation of development cooperation within the framework of a strategy decided by the Government. The Agency has well-developed systems to prevent, detect and remedy irregularities. The Government conducts an ongoing dialogue with Sida on their work in assessing the risks of corruption in the aid, both in general and in specific cases. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also had a dialogue with the Swedish Afghanistan Committee (SAK). Both Sida and SAK state that neither tax nor fees should have been paid to the Taliban. The Swedish Afghanistan Committee has announced that they have been under pressure over the last decade by local Taliban in a defined area in an attempt to get the organisation to pay taxes. As a result, SAK chose to close down its operations in the area in question rather than pay. SAK was later able to reopen when the locals themselves had led the Taliban to withdraw the claim. In the budget proposal for 2020, the Government has proposed an increase in Sida's administrative appropriations, including to further strengthen anti-corruption efforts, for example by having more resources in place on the ground and to a greater extent follow programmes and activities and make evaluations. Sweden, like the other donor community, has committed itself to channel half of development aid through the Afghan State. Half of our support today goes to the donors' joint world banking fund ARTF, the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund, which in turn supports the Afghan state's institutions and development projects. The World Bank has monitoring and evaluation systems and procedures. Sida's assessment is that ARTF meets our and other donors' rigorous requirements for transparency and follow-up. I welcome the World Bank's action plan as part of strengthening the important work against corruption. The conflict in Afghanistan is complex with many international and regional stakeholders. In order to build confidence in the future and counter the root causes of conflict, it is necessary to work on peace and state building, to promote trust between citizens and to strengthen those actors in Afghanistan who want a peaceful solution to the conflict. But it is not an easy task, everyone should be aware of.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-270	Mr President, I would like to Recently, the Expressen newspaper published a report from Afghanistan on how aid is misused and financed by the Taliban. Researcher Said Reza Kazemi from the independent Sida-funded research institution Afghanistan Analyst Network, interviewed in Expressen, claims that he has never encountered an aid organization that does not pay tax to the Taliban. Of course, for those who follow Swedish development policy in general and the work in Afghanistan in particular, this is nothing new. In April 2018, the US Department of Defence published an audit report pointing to a number of extremely serious shortcomings in how donor collectives, the World Bank and the Afghan authorities deal with the aid channelled through the Afghan Development Fund, as mentioned by the Minister for Development in his speech. In short, the criticism focuses on the fact that money is being paid out without the donor collective knowing who the recipient is, that the Afghan authorities are unable to report correctly on the payees and that the follow-up to what ultimately happens to the money is often non-existent. The lack of supervision has also been exacerbated by the fact that the Afghan authorities have a great deal of flexibility in how they can spend the money. The donor collective has also not been able to provide guidelines on where funds are to be distributed geographically, which has resulted in money being paid out in areas controlled by the Taliban. The lead investigator John Sopko admits that the donor collective is deliberately between its fingers with embezzlement and with the fund financing regular warlords, and also fueled corruption by spending too much money too quickly and with far too little control. In addition, the military conflict in Afghanistan has been exacerbated by undermining public confidence in the Afghan Government and simply breaking down the morale of the country's military. We will emphasise that Sweden is one of the largest donors to the fund. I therefore asked Sida last year how to view these problems. The answer I received was a little strange. Sida writes as follows: our ARTF is conducted in one of the world's most difficult contexts, with ongoing wars and weak government and where development needs are enormous. The ARTF follow-up is adapted to this. That's one of the answers. The second answer is: a plan of action was drawn up in 2017 when donors, the bank and the government agreed to further strengthen ARTF's follow-up and evaluation of results. Current work on follow-up and anti-corruption is carried out in accordance with the Action Plan. ..................................................... Against this background, I would like to ask Minister Eriksson: What is really happening – is it the case that Sida-funded relief organisations pay tax to the Taliban or not? Has the ARTF Anti-Cor rule and Results Monitoring Action Plan from 2017 worked? If it has worked, why is there testimony that money goes to the Taliban? And what does it really mean that the follow-up is adapted to the circumstances on the ground? Does this mean compromises with the control of where the money is going because the practical possibilities for control are limited?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-277	Mr President, I would like to There are a number of issues raised by Ludvig. We from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs have tried to control this. We have spoken with Sida and with the Swedish Afghanistan Committee, which itself has conducted investigations. The Swedish Afghanistan Committee has quite a large number of activities. It has been in Afghanistan for a very long time and has over 6,000 employees in the country, of which 99% are local people. Health centres, hospitals and schools are run in large parts of the country but not throughout the country. The Swedish Afghanistan Committee itself has produced clear results, namely that no taxes have been paid to Taliban. As I said in my previous reply, there are cases where they have been under pressure, because there have been cases where some other organisations have been required to tax in areas where the Taliban rule, but the Swedish Afghanistan Committee claims that they do not pay such tax and have not done so in the past either. I have no reason to believe anything else. The article in Expressen referred to by Ludvig Aspling also shows nothing in substance to suggest it, but it is simply that an individual seems to think that, in general, tax is paid to the Taliban in the areas in which they run, but he appears to have been operating in areas where SAK is not active. In any case, there is no reason, as the situation currently stands, to believe anything other than that the Swedish Afghanistan Committee is right and that you do not pay taxes, as long as nothing else emerges. However, if it were to be stated that it is otherwise, that information would obviously have to be checked. So far, however, no such individual case has emerged, but it is just a sort of rumor that Ludvig Aspling is passing on here. We know that Afghanistan is one of the world's most corrupt countries. It's a state that doesn't work. The state itself does not control the whole country. The state is very weak. It is a high degree of illiteracy and major other problems such as extreme poverty. There has been war and conflict for over 40 years. We know what this has led to. When the Taliban took power in the past, it also led to violence and conflict in other parts of the world. That is why there is a strong interest from us and from the outside in trying to help create a functioning society and a functioning state in Afghanistan. That is why Sweden has been involved in the project called ARTF, with an agreement that is largely about building institutions and building a state. This, one should be aware of, is done in a context that is extremely difficult, but it is an important and comprehensive work. ARTF is under severe pressure, but in the meantime it has also been given better and better opportunities to prevent corruption.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-283	Mr President, I would like to Here we have a number of credible sources – some of the experts funded by Sida itself to report on the situation in Afghanistan – confirming the suspicions that have flourished, i.e. that the aid is a direct source of income for the Taliban. We therefore have a situation in which a Swedish authority, Sida, finances weapons aimed at killing personnel from another Swedish authority, namely the Swedish Armed Forces. This, Madam President, seems to me to be an excellent example of the chaos that this government is creating. When Sida is confronted with these tasks, we are therefore given the answer that the control of what the money actually goes to is adapted to the situation on the ground, which means that in the areas controlled by Taliban or other rebel groups there is probably no control at all, in general, but the money can go straight into the terrorists' pockets. What the government does not seem to understand is that every crown of aid going to the Taliban is invested in terror, creating a greater need for aid, which means that we have to send more money, allowing the Taliban to charge more tax, invest in more terror, and so on. Peter Eriksson is becoming more and more like the Baghdad-Bagdad-Bob of aid, which stands here in the Swedish parliament and assures that there is no terrorist financing and that everything is calm, while his authorities have obviously lost control and in practice function as an ATM for the enemies of civilization. For the sake of the Afghans and for all the others affected by this misguided goodwill, I hope that this government will soon have done its part. I would like to ask a simple and concrete question. In his interpellation response, Peter Eriksson says that both Sida and the Swedish Afghanistan Committee state that neither taxes nor fees have been paid to the Taliban. Firstly, it is not a question of these organisations having paid money directly to the Taliban. That is not what the accusation is about; it is about those who implement aid on the ground paying a tax to the Taliban in order to operate there. That's the first thing. Secondly, these organisations are accused of being poorly controlled. That's what the interpellation is about. The response provided by the Minister for Development is based on a question he has put to the person we claim to have made a mistake. We therefore claim that Sida and the Swedish Afghanistan Committee have done wrong, and then Peter Eriksson says that they themselves say that they have done nothing wrong. After all, these organisations cannot reasonably exercise any kind of supervision over themselves, but they must be addressed to the experts outside Sida and the Swedish Afghanistan Committee. I wonder: could Peter Eriksson point out any expert opinion from a third party, which is therefore independent, confirming the image he gives, that is, that no Swedish aid has funded the Taliban? Can Peter Eriksson guarantee here and now in the Swedish Parliament that Swedish aid will not be used to finance the Taliban in Afghanistan?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-293	Madam President, I would like This is going to be a kind of discussion. Have you stopped beating your wife? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Ludvig Aspling makes completely unsolved claims. There is no one who has a concrete example that the Swedish Afghanistan Committee would have paid any kind of tax to the Taliban. It's just general talk, loose claims and rumors that he spreads on. That, as Ludvig Aspling says, there would be several credible sources that state that the Swedish Afghanistan Committee is paying taxes is just pure nonsense. There are no such sources – not a single one! Get them out before you make further allegations that Swedish tax money goes through the Swedish Afghanistan Committee to the Taliban! Do it! Then we will have a new discussion on this, but so far there is no such task at all. The reasoning is further drawn – that the money would go straight into the terrorists' pockets. The work of the ARTF is another matter. It is essentially a much more difficult task to try to build a state society in a country that does not work and where there is extreme corruption. I know there have been problems in this area. I do not think anyone denies that, and that is not surprising either. Nor is it news that there have been problems with corruption in Afghanistan also in trying to build institutions and a state. The reports, audits and investigations that have been in place over the last few years have made a number of further proposals, both from the American Authority of Sigar, which is the real background to Ludvig Aspling's comment and question, but also from the World Bank. A number of additional measures to reduce the risk of corruption have now been implemented and implemented. Corruption is one of the most serious and dangerous things there is, and it hinders the creation of functioning societies in the world, especially in poor countries. But in some cases you have to take risks. There are no clean situations. And it is not in countries like Norway or Finland that we carry out such activities, but in countries that do not work. If you are not willing to take any risks, you will not be able to make any progress or achieve success, but you will end up in a situation where you let those who are corrupt take over completely. We're not gonna do that. We should not accept any corruption, but if we are to bring order to countries such as Afghanistan, we still need to work in these countries and in situations that are very difficult, both from the point of view of violence and from other points of view.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-298	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to call on the Minister for Development to read the interpellation a little more carefully. I do not mention the Swedish Afghanistan Committee in the interpellation, but I mention the ARTF. This is the question, but then Peter Eriksson comes and says in his reply that Sida and SAK state that no money has been paid to the Taliban from there. That's too well. It's great if the Swedish Afghanistan Committee doesn't pay out money to the Taliban. I'm happy and happy about it. However, the question I put in the interpellation concerns the Afghan reconstruction fund. There are credible sources who again point out that it pays money to rebel groups, terrorists, warlords and Taliban. This is well documented. But then Peter Eriksson comes and says that there is another organisation that is also funded and that it does not at least pay out money to terrorists. That's great, but it's hardly an answer to the question. I must respond to what the Minister for Development said, that the person interviewed in Expressen is only one person. No, it is not just one person, it is an expert who is paid by Sweden to report on the situation in Afghanistan. To dismiss that person as just one person just because he comes up with information that the Minister for Development does not like is not fair. I would like the Minister for Development to use his last speech to explain something. If it is true that the Afghan Government is one of the world's most corrupt, as the Minister for Development himself acknowledged in his previous speech, how on earth has it been concluded that it is a good idea to use the Afghan Government as an implementing partner for aid? How the hell did you find out it's a good idea?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-302	Madam President, I would like I want to say two things. The first is that the articles referred to by Ludvig Aspling concerning Afghanistan and taxes paid to the Taliban refer to charges against the Swedish Afghanistan Committee. It is in that article that the whole line of reasoning is passed on. It is no coincidence that the Swedish Afghanistan Committee is highlighted, because it is one of the largest aid organisations in Afghanistan and the organisation that receives the most Swedish support. That's one of them. The second is what I tried to explain earlier. There has never really been a strong state in Afghanistan. This is the background to much of the violence and problems there, except that there have been wars there for 40 years. As long as you do not have a functioning state with institutions that work, the problems will not be resolved. This is why the international community – the World Bank, the United States and several other countries together – participates in the agreement known as the ARTF, in order to try to ensure that a functioning society is created in the country. This is basically to avoid further disasters and wars and the Taliban coming back and taking over power. It is not very difficult for us to be involved in this work.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-305	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me a number of questions about the medical requirements for driving licences with higher qualifications. Safe drivers are an important part of the work to achieve the zero vision. Therefore, there are common minimum requirements for the medical fitness of drivers in the EU driving licence directive. The medical requirements for driving licences for epilepsy are higher for professional drivers than for other drivers. In an infringement case against Sweden, the European Commission has made it clear that the minimum medical requirements for driving licences should always be met. The driving licence directive requires ten years of freedom of attack without medication. For drivers with good prognosis this time can be shortened. The assessment is made in the individual cases by the Swedish Transport Agency. This means that national authorities can grant exemptions from the requirement for the seizure-free period in ten years' time after an individual assessment, but not from the requirement to be medically free. The application of the exemption from the directive by the Swedish Transport Agency has been examined and received support, among other things, in a judgment from the right to breast-feed. In the context of the EU's work on the driving licence directive, medical requirements are constantly being reviewed in order to be updated in line with medical developments. Sweden is active in this work.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-309	Madam President, I would like To your audience, both here in the gallery and on television and radio, I would like to say that this is about the Transport Agency having implemented a stricter EU directive on driving licences for heavy-duty vehicles without any real transitional rules. This means that today we have heavy vehicle drivers who have been driving heavy traffic almost all their lives, but now all of a sudden we are not allowed to drive, we are not allowed to pursue our profession, we are not allowed to have a source of income and we are not allowed to hold their dream profession. This has therefore been done because an EU directive with stricter requirements has been implemented without any transitional rules. Who informed these drivers? Madam President, I would like In order to be allowed to take and retain a driving licence in Sweden, the individual must meet medical fitness requirements. The requirements are set to ensure good road safety and concern, among other things, vision, hearing and other health aspects that are important in traffic. Particularly high requirements are placed on obtaining driving licences for heavier vehicles and for commercial vehicles. It is, of course, extremely important to safeguard road safety. I think we all agree on that. But the implementation of this directive, Madam President, is causing a lot of problems. There are quite a few examples of these problems. For example, we have Roland up in the gallery. We have another case in Åre – Patrik with his own haulage company. There are quite a few more examples, and quite a few more will end up in this situation. It is professional drivers who have had their driving licences suspended by the Swedish Transport Agency because of their history of epilepsy, not because their epilepsy has in any way escalated, but because the rules hux flux have changed without any information whatsoever. Previously, the rules said that professional drivers would have been seizure-free for five years. Whether or not they ate medicine didn't matter. However, in 2017, the Swedish Transport Agency decided that EU directives should be complied with, and they are much stricter. The Minister and I spoke about this earlier at Question Time. Professional drivers must now have been free of seizures for ten years, and during these ten years they must not have taken medicines. In view of this, I asked my first question in the interpellation: does the Minister not think that there should have been and should be some kind of transitional regulation enabling holders of driving licences for heavier vehicles to comply with the rules within a reasonable period of time? Madam President, I would like I do not feel that this was in any response from the Minister. I wonder if I should interpret it as saying that the Minister has no answer. I'm an economist, and I like to count. Above all, they then ultimately want the equation to go together. But it doesn't here no matter how you count. The Swedish Transport Agency chooses to implement an EU directive 2017 that requires professional drivers to have been seizure free for ten years and have not taken medicines. Many have been medication just in case and have not received any information that this would change. They have ended up in this fold that you should have been free of medicine for ten years. However, they have previously been granted their continued driving licence possession by the Swedish Transport Agency, despite the fact that the Swedish Transport Agency was aware of the medication.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-318	Madam President, I would like I thank Alexandra Anstrell for this. She is not only an economist but also a Member of Parliament. And as a Member of Parliament, it is known that we are also members of the European Union. When it comes to an infringement case against Sweden when we are members, we are obliged to comply with this directive. When it is clearly stated that there are also no possibilities for transitional arrangements according to the so-called grandfather principles, it is also something that Sweden must follow. There is also the possibility for individuals to appeal. When it is then examined in administrative law and it turns out that the administrative court, in this case the Administrative Court of Appeal, says that it is the right assessment, it is a Swedish court that has established a practice. As a Member of Parliament, one should nevertheless be quite familiar with how the process ensures that we comply with the EU directive, because it was an infringement case, and also reasonably follow the Swedish courts. I therefore have to ask Alexandra Anstrell the following question: does she think that we should not comply with the EU directive, that we should, contrary to the EU, refrain from implementing directives, that we should violate the principles of the implementation of transitional rules or that we should ignore the court decisions that have now been taken in relation to interpretation? I hope and don't think so. I myself think that the only reasonable thing would have been transitional rules and time for this. I think a lot of people think that. However, it is clear that when the EU has chosen to implement this directive, and Sweden has not, like other Member States, implemented strictly from the outset, an infringement case was initiated. Then the time is that Swedish authorities have to follow this. It is not for me as a minister or for Alexandra Anstrell as a Member of Parliament to make any other special assessment in individual matters, but it may be examined by the responsible authority. It can then be appealed. And when it is appealed, you have the right to have it examined by administrative law. That's the way it is. Then I think, and I think that everyone thinks, that it is incredibly important to assimilate all the experience and knowledge that people with epilepsy and other diseases have and to ensure that they can use as much as possible their solid professional knowledge. But the background to the directive is the fact that professional drivers drive vehicles in the 50-60-tonne class. Therefore, special demands are made for these people to be free of medicine. That is the room for manoeuvre. What we can and should do is follow medical developments and monitor how practices develop. Again: It is perhaps not I as a minister or Alexandra Anstrell as a Member of Parliament who will make this assessment, but it is medical science together with the relevant authorities that will make this assessment. I will follow this closely because it is important that we use all the available resources in terms of having drivers in professional traffic. There is a flaw there. We therefore need to use as much knowledge as possible. It is therefore a good thing that there are also possibilities for derogations. Some reliefs may be granted in terms of the seizure-free time for those with a good prognosis and a low seizure risk. It is this assessment that both courts and the Swedish Transport Agency can make according to the directive that we as EU members now have an obligation to implement.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-328	Madam President, I would like I really think this is all kind of weird. I cannot believe that a government agency implements a regulatory framework and does not inform a number of skilled skiers. There must have been some kind of system malfunction somewhere. Someone must have forgotten something. I also think that as a Member of Parliament I am involved in legislating, which means that laws can also be changed. We cannot blame a Europe anywhere far away; we are part of the European Union, and then you have to be a part of the European Union. That's what I think. The Minister has said earlier and also today that the matter should be followed up. I wonder how the Minister thinks that this problem for Swedish professional drivers should be solved by following the issue. Wouldn't it be better to try somewhere to get to grips with the issue – change it and solve it? We can compare this issue with something else. So we have a number of people who have had driving licences for heavy traffic and who have had epilepsy at some point in their lives but then received medication. Since then there have been no problems, but the Swedish Transport Agency has granted continued possession despite knowledge of the medication. This may be related to the fact that we may have 700 000 motorists driving around with illegal bad eyesight. To obtain a driving licence today, a synthesis is required, but it is not then required when renewing the licence. This may result in more than 1 out of 10 motorists driving around with a vision that is below the Swedish Transport Agency's border requirements. You hear, Madam President, just like me, that sounds a little strange. Professional drivers must now have been free of seizures for ten years, and during the ten years they must not have taken medicines. I really think, like the Minister, that road safety is very important, but somewhere there must be rhymes and reasonableness in the regulations. Churchill is said to have said that there is nothing wrong with change, as long as it goes in the right direction. That is why I come back to this with transitional rules or derogations. There must be opportunities. Of course, those who are unfit should not get a driving licence, and there we already have a regulatory framework with reference to medical and personal conditions – one should be appropriate and so on. In the past, the rules meant that you would have been seizure free for five years, and whether you were eating medicine or not didn't matter. Then the Swedish Transport Agency decided in 2007 that EU directives should be complied with, and they are considerably stricter: ten years of freedom of attack and ten years without medicines. What I am thinking, Madam President, is that you cannot move from one regulatory framework to another regulatory framework without providing any information. Someone must have known about this. Or has it simply fallen between the chairs? Such things can happen, Madam President, and even the sun has its spots, right? The question is therefore why these people have not been informed about this. What's the government doing about the problem?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-335	Madam President, I would like I note that Alexandra Anstrell does not have any proposals for us to breach the EU acquis. This also means that the conditions for Sweden to introduce transitional rules do not exist. However, the medical criteria contained in the driving licence directive are constantly being revised. There are opportunities to follow developments and see if a different assessment is made. There are also opportunities to highlight issues in the forthcoming revision of the driving licence directive. But, as I said, with the order we have today, it is still possible to keep the driving licence if the prognosis is good and the risk of seizures is low. There is also a legal system where you can actually appeal the Swedish Transport Agency's decision, take it to the administrative court and let Swedish courts decide. However, we are members of the European Union and we should comply with the common regulatory framework. It is clear that there are possibilities to make other exceptions, but then we have a long journey ahead of us to amend the driving licence directive. Alexandra Anstrell, together with others in the Riksdag, could have a discussion about what exceptions we should have in that case. But let us agree that we should not endanger road safety! We should not end up in a situation where road safety on our roads is at risk – especially in professional traffic. Again, no one thinks more than I do that we should use the skills we have with regard to professional drivers. We need that; we have a shortage of professional drivers today, and we need more people who can use their solid knowledge to do the important job of being a professional driver. But we also have a framework that neither I nor Alexandra Anstrell can judge in our practice, but it is doctors who design the medical criteria and the Swedish Transport Agency as the authority that decides. There is a legal order. The scope for action is therefore limited. I understand the goal conflict and think that Alexandra Anstrell makes it a little too easy for herself when she, although she is a member of the Swedish Parliament, thinks that one should make up some kind of transitional rules. Now, however, in an infringement case where this has been legally pursued against Sweden, the EU is saying that we cannot introduce transitional rules because there is a grandfather's principle precisely when it comes to professional drivers. That is the room for manoeuvre.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-340	Madam President, I would like I became a politician because I wanted to improve Sweden. I still think you can do it, but then there has to be a will. You can't just leave a problem to your fate. I have learned that it takes a lot of hard work to make things happen. Madam President, I would like I am concerned because, in this case, I see no interest or hard work in solving a problem that may have arisen accidentally. I wonder – and many with me, I think – whether the Minister intends to act or whether the Minister will only follow developments. Does the Minister intend to act to solve a problem that might never have arisen? It may be easy to blame European directives, but, as I said earlier, we are actually part of the European Union. This means that we can also influence within the EU, but the question is whether the will exists. Madam President, I would like The decision of the Swedish Transport Agency not to allow the extension of competences applies immediately, regardless of whether it is appealed. So you take the note at once. How are these people going to fix their livelihoods? They have had this as a livelihood for many years, and it is a dream job for many. What does the Minister say to all these affected drivers? Is it just to go to Arbetsförmedlingen, without passing walk?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-343	Madam President, I would like I believe that Alexandra Anstrell and I agree that there is reason to look at changes so that we can assimilate the skills that exist. We need more professional drivers, and we need to make sure that skills are used. I believe, however, that Alexandra Anstrell is also aware that I, as Minister of State, cannot resign or comment on either individual cases or the legal order that the European Union requires us to follow. That is what I think I need to use the time here in the speaker's chair to clarify. We are members of the European Union and there is an infringement case because Sweden has not implemented the directive as other Member States. Now the Swedish Transport Agency is doing this. A trial is being carried out, and there are some exceptions. It can be appealed, and it is then examined in Swedish courts. In addition, we need to do a lot more to ensure that the skills that exist – certainly even here in the gallery – can be used as much as possible. We need more people with this knowledge in the whole of the transport industry. In particular, employers and others have a responsibility to ensure that this competence can be taken into account. We probably need to work together so that it remains attractive to work – and drive safely – as a truck driver in Sweden, because we need more people who do.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-346	Madam President, I would like Magnus Jacobsson has asked me when I and the Government intend to provide information about the direction of infrastructure planning and whether I and the Government intend to allow the Riksdag to take a position on infrastructure planning in the form of a proposal from the Government in 2020. I have recently, on 25 November 2019, answered a written question from Magnus Jacobsson on national infrastructure planning. My answer is the same now as it was then. Work on future national infrastructure planning is currently being prepared within the Government Office. Currently, the decided national traffic cross-border plan for transport infrastructure is being implemented for the period 2018 – 2029 with a total investment of over SEK 700 billion. It is over SEK 100 billion more than the previous national plan, which the bourgeois government decided upon.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-349	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer, but unfortunately I am a little concerned. I have – before returning to the Riksdag – had the privilege of being a municipal politician for 16 years and also a regional politician, sitting on the Regional Development Board in Västra Götaland, for eight years. Both I and the Minister know that these plans are aimed at a 12-year cycle, where one has thought that every four years one should evaluate in order to roll out the next twelve years. When the decision was taken in 2018, the next review, which one is waiting for, was due to take place in 2022. If this is to work so that some form of new decision is rolled out in 2022, this work needs to be started. Then it should not just be started in the form of preparation in the Government Office, but it needs to be handled by our authorities and regions. I come from a region – Västra Götaland – where there have been some other rules and where the region has been more involved in these issues than in other parts of Sweden. There are a number of problems with this very short answer. This means that our authorities do not really have a clear signal of what to start working out for the next four-year cycle, after 2029. Our regions are not in a position to fully plan which items to roll in after 2029. Our business community, in the form of chambers of commerce and many other major companies, also does not know what happens after 2029. My question to the Minister is how it intends to deal with the four-year cycle that has nevertheless been in the working method.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-354	Madam President, I would like I understand that the commitment of Magnus Jacobsson is not least about the importance of being able to get good planning conditions for the Stockholm– Jönköping and Gothenburg – Jönköping sections. I can truly share that view. I think it would be important to find out how, for example, we can get new main tracks that go from Stockholm via Jönköping up towards Gothenburg. In the current national plan, we make it clear that the route starts with Gothenburg – Borås, just as Lund – Hässleholm and Ostlänken form important foundations for the construction of new main roads. Given the lack of capacity in the Swedish rail system, it is very important that we can also continue to build and develop new railways in Sweden. This is one of the reasons why we are making the greatest railway effort in modern times. We add 100 billion more than the national plan of the bourgeois government. We are renovating, repairing and building new ones, such as the Norrbotnia Line, the South East Link and the East Link. But a prerequisite for solving the capacity problems we have in the Swedish rail system is that we come to a system where we can make decisions on new main roads. There Magnus Jacobsson's own party is a party that now seems to change its mind and think that this is not needed. It seems that the proposal for the construction of new high-speed rail lines is no longer supported, even though we know how important it would be. We have a national plan that extends to 2029. The government prepares the basis for this, both in terms of discussions on new main routes and in terms of other urgent infrastructure investments. Sweden needs to invest more in infrastructure, not less. We need to renovate and repair the Swedish rail system, and we need to build new railways. We need to continue to develop shipping through courageous decisions on fairway depths. We tripled the efforts in the national plan that is now in place. We need to continue to strengthen the road network, not least because there is a risk that at the end of the planning period we may have a weakening of road standards in the capillary road network, as I think it was expressed at some point in time. This is one of the reasons why this government has made extra efforts – the so-called pothole money – to strengthen the quality of roads in rural areas. Planning and work are ongoing. I am more concerned about how Magnus Jacobsson and the Christian Democrats view the need for major infrastructure investments and not least the need for new main roads. From the government's side, we are done with this – new high-speed trains are needed. We need to ensure that capacity is greatly increased. The Finnish Transport Agency has recently stated that they cannot meet the needs or wishes of several operators about more time on the railways precisely because we have capacity problems. Then it should surely be the case that the Christian Democrats have proposed solutions to how we should strengthen capacity. Municipalities along the entire path of the Swedish negotiation have negotiated and arranged for housing construction. They say that they are prepared to shake hands with the state and contribute to modernisation. It wants to build housing and develop new areas to ensure fast and good transport that is climate-smart and that can relieve the current rail network and thus free up the capacity for both commuter and freight trains. The planning process continues, but I think it is also important for Magnus Jacobsson to tell us how the Christian Democrats view the construction of new main roads.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-366	Madam President, I would like I hear here that we need, that we need and that we need. We Christian Democrats are probably the first to agree that we need to. If the Minister had looked at our national decision, he would have seen that we are clear that we say no to high-speed trains but yes to new main roads. As a party, we have also said, in different contexts and in different ways, that we are at any time prepared to come and sit down in talks about future main roads or future railway construction. We are also prepared to sit in talks on how this can be financed. This presupposes, however, that the government invites some form of dialogue. This is also where our concern comes. The current plan is in many respects good. Unlike the government, we are actually spending 1 billion more over the next three years. In this context, 1 billion is not so much money, but it is still a fact that we spend more money than the government on infrastructure. That, once again, does not prevent what is at the heart of the issue. My basic question is not whether we are spending 1 billion more or less than the government, but my basic question concerns the work process itself. We have a 12-year-old model where the idea is to return every four years. In fact, I do not get an answer to this. Here we have a number of questions that I know different parts of Sweden are considering. We have the question of new main courses in the northern and western parts of Sweden. We have the question of the expansion of Arlanda. We see what is happening to aviation right now – we need to take a position on how to handle Arlanda in the long term. We have the question of a new Öresund bridge, which we need to ponder. Maybe it should be co-financed in some way, like the Norwegians' bompeng or something else. We also need to have a better connection between Denmark and Sweden, as well as Norway and Sweden. Not so much of this is in the current plans. If I were to go to my own home country, it is clear that half a lock in Trollhättan will not help us. We would like to have funding for an entire lock – that would make life a little easier. I would like to return to the basic question: does the government intend to start work outside the Government Office so that before 2022 we can have a revision of the infrastructure investment plans?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-376	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson, for the praise of the national plan! I am also quite proud of it, because it contains courageous initiatives that are important for Sweden. It contains, as I said, 100 billion more than was contained in the previous plan. This means that we are currently upgrading the entire Swedish rail system. We're renovating, we're repairing and we're making new investments. This also means that we – of course – are investing in roads and shipping. We have a special focus on cycle paths in the national plan. We are also increasing road safety. This work is continuing; it is happening right now. On the deficiency list and on the 10% list are urgent items in the future. I am courted – and I suppose Magnus Jacobsson does – by a lot of municipalities and regions that want us to make more investments. I welcome this, because Sweden needs to make more investments in climate-smart travel, not least if we are to meet the climate requirements. There, the construction of new main roads is an important part. I welcome the news I received from Magnus Jacobsson about a yes to conversation and that the Christian Democrats want to build new main courses. I had not quite understood this in the communication of the party leadership, but if that is true – and I assume it is – it is a welcome message from the Christian Democrats that the construction of new main roads is seen as an important part of developing the Swedish rail system. Again, the planning process is an issue that we are preparing in the Government Office, and we will come back.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-383	Madam President, I would like Again, we are very much in agreement with what is in the plan. We have also been involved in working with it at different levels. For my part, I worked with it at regional level when it was worked out. What is my main criticism right now is the answer that it is being prepared in the Government Office, because it needs to come outside the Government Office. We need to involve our authorities, regions and also the business community in the process. Then I hope that I have made it clear that we are saying no to the project that we have worked out today on high-speed rail. We do not see it as environmentally friendly. We do not see it as socially profitable either. However, we are in favour of the construction of new railways and are happy to sit down and discuss measures against various bottlenecks that can be properly financed. As a party, we have also taken another decision in principle, which we hope the government will look at in the future, and that is that municipalities should be allowed to take the initiative for Bompeng. For my part, I have been courted by several municipalities that want local bridges between municipalities, such as Orust– Stenungsund, but which are slowed down by the fact that they have too short depreciation times at Trafikverket, which means that there is a very high cost per year. It is also made more difficult by the fact that it is not the municipalities that can make decisions about bompeng. If, in this case, they had had a longer depreciation period and stronger municipal self-government, they would have solved these problems. Again, the main issue is not individual projects. The main question is whether the government intends to return before 2022. I understand that the answer is no, it is not intended to come back before 2022. I'm sorry about that. I do not think it is enough that this is only being prepared in the Government Office, but that we need to have a broader process where we work together for a better infrastructure in Sweden.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-388	Madam President, I would like With regard to the previous process of national plan, we were praised in the Government Office for our work. We went around and visited all the regions. I met with regional councillors, municipal councillors, chambers of commerce and others to listen to all requests and views on what was then the Transport Agency's proposal. This way of working is incredibly important to continue caring for. Of course, it will be an important part when we revise and change a new national plan in the future. I would like to say that the way in which Sweden negotiates was unique. The Alliance government presented it as the construction of Sweden, and it then continued under the heading of the Swedish negotiation. It included municipalities and regions with their own commitments in housing construction, as land was freed up by new investment in infrastructure. Now Magnus Jacobsson clarifies the position of the Christian Democrats, and then I am concerned again. So you say no to the proposal of the Swedish negotiation; you say no to building new high-speed rail lines. That's how I interpret it. What, then, is the answer to Jönköping, Borås, Linköping, Norrköping and Hässleholm, to all the municipalities and regions that have planned for this to be an important part of getting a labour market enlargement and also an opportunity for urban development and housing construction? Don't you listen to that process? After all, you started it on your own. Not being able to take responsibility for long-term positions, as infrastructure building actually is, and starting a ten- or twenty-year process in Sweden and then changing does not impress.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-392	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me how I view the recurring predator attacks on domestic animals, if I believe that there should be a reintroduction of licence hunting on wolf in Sweden, in any case in areas with high predatory pressure, what measures I take to ensure that predatory pressure is spread throughout Sweden in accordance with the Riksdag's decision, if I believe that one should be able to live and live throughout Sweden and run agriculture without the risk of having their domestication attacked by wolf and finally how the government ensures that the county boards' assessment of protection hunting on wolf due to socio-economic considerations does not differ. The bill 2012/ 13:191 states that Sweden should achieve and maintain a favourable conservation status for the predators, while keeping domestic animal husbandry at bay is not significantly impeded and socio-economic considerations should be taken into account. The proposal suggests that the reference value for favourable conservation status in the Swedish population should be 170 – 270 individuals. The reference value for favourable conservation status shall not be less than: However, the population has had a higher inbreeding rate than is considered acceptable, and the vulnerability analysis underlying the reference value was criticised for not taking into account genetic aspects. In 2015, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency (the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency) instructed the government to update the analysis on the basis of a broad scientific basis and, on the basis of the new analysis, to investigate what is required for the population to be considered as having favourable conservation status. Based on the analysis, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has assessed that at least 300 wolves are needed and that at least one immigrant wolf from Finland or Russia reproduces with a Scandinavian wolf every five years in order for the population to have favourable conservation status. The proposal also shows that once a predatory management area has reached the minimum level for a species, the delegation of licence hunting decisions should be possible to all county boards that are part of the management area without limitation. This regime still applies, i.e. that licence hunting can only be carried out when a species has favourable conservation status and the other conditions for such hunting have been met. It is estimated that the wolf strain is exactly on the reference value for favourable conservation status – 300 wolves. This is stated as a reason why the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has not delegated the license hunt coming winter to the county administrative boards, something on which the government cannot have any point of view. The bill also states that the wolf's presence in reindeer husbandry areas and in counties with pastures, intensive sheep husbandry or archipelagos should mainly be limited to those areas where it does the least damage. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has the overall national responsibility for implementing the decided predatory policy. The Authority has delegated the right to decide on the hunt for wolf and the other large predators to the county administrative boards where the predators occur. It is important that these decisions are taken regionally, where local conditions are known. Protection hunting is an important part of predator management. It is also important that county boards should be allowed to make their own assessments based on local and regional circumstances, including in terms of socio-economic considerations. During the previous term of office, the government introduced a regime in which all decisions on the hunting of predators under appeal are subject to the same administrative law. This means that all county boards' assessments of socio-economic considerations, among other things, are examined by the same court, which should lead to more similar assessments. In the case of predator attacks on domestic animals, statistics show that they have reduced the last few years. This is due, for example, to the fact that animal owners have implemented several preventive measures such as setting up predator-rejecting fences, but also to a reduction in the number of wolves. Predators move across large areas. The proposal states that the concentration of the wolf strain should be reduced where it is most dense. The wolf's reference value for favourable conservation status for the range shall be the whole of Sweden except the Alpine region and Gotland County. Achieving it is a process that takes time and must be allowed to do so. People are supposed to be able to live and run industries where the predators are. A viable and active rural area is needed for sustainable development and growth throughout the country.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-400	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Let me be clear: we Moderates believe that predatory policy has such major flaws, not least as regards the level of wolf in Sweden, that we believe that Parliament's decision on the lower border, 170 wolves, should be handled by the government in a regulatory letter. Why have we come to this conclusion? Well, five years with the Environmental Party in the government has had major consequences, not least for my county of Gävleborg. Only last night there was a meeting in Kilafors, and the County Administrative Board confirmed that there is a wolf pack of 14 individuals. Anyone who wants to can read in helhälsingland.se today that reported persons met at the meeting and that the county administrative board completely frankly stated that there is a lot of wolf. He even said, "There's a hell of a lot of wolves." ..................................................... There have been attacks on sheep farms in Hälsingland. In Ockelbo there has been an unscrupulous wolf during the autumn. On Gefle Dagblad's website you can see a film where a woman tries to scare off a wolf standing in her yard. We can read that domestic animals have been killed in Ockelbo and that there has been another wolf attack on sheep in Bollnäs municipality. At a school in Kilafors, the principal did not want to release the children on a school trip because of concerns about children's safety. What if a school in Stockholm had not let the children out because of fear of wolf! This is Sweden 2019. A farmer in Ockelbo asks himself if it is worth continuing with animal husbandry. He is active in the LRF and talks about his declared colleagues. SVT Gävleborg talks about Tobias who filmed the wolf in the middle of Sandviken. In an article we can read about a wolf at a school in Hofors. This is how it continues in article after article, and it is only in my constituency Gävleborg. The County Administrative Board said at the meeting last night that it is estimated that there are up to 90 wolves in Gävleborg alone. In a previous interpellation debate, the responsible minister has said that this should be resolved by a protection hunt. If we read newspaper articles about this, we can note that the County Administrative Board rejects protective hunting for protection. In cases where the County Administrative Board has granted protection hunting, the Administrative Court suspends it because there are two three very active organisations that ensure that each protection hunt is appealed. The conclusion we Moderates draw is simple: The government has a responsibility to live and live throughout the country. The government has a responsibility to be able to carry out business activities throughout the country and not risk having their sheep eaten. The Government has a responsibility to instruct its authority that it must now be enough and now the Riksdag's decision of 170 individuals must be followed as this does not work anymore.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-408	Madam President, I would like My colleague Lars Beckman has made a good interpellation, but I am a little concerned about the answer. It is easy to get a little lost in all the research reports produced in a strong stream. Some contain relevant facts, while many are of opinion and concern. Let me give you some history like this on Friday morning. In the late 70's, three wolves were found in Värmland and possibly an additional number on the Norwegian side, the so-called Trysilflocken. Since then, enormous work has been done on conservation and research. All along the mantra seems to have been that we do not do enough to save and restore the tribe and that there is a great risk that the tribe will die out. In fact, however, these few wolves have become over 300 extremely prosperous animals. The story of the wolf, like that of many other game species, is a success story. According to the scientists, today's wolf tribe is based on three individuals. Madam President, I would like I myself have experienced many different opinions in a wolf debate, but you must not behave in any way. Fears are one thing and personal feelings are another. Yet, the facts are facts. If the Riksdag takes a decision and the Government instructs an authority to investigate something, it must surely be the Riksdag that amends the decision. It can't just disappear into space. In order to create acceptance for wolf management, a fresh start is needed. The Moderates' view is that the wolf tribe must be reduced to 170 in line with the Riksdag's lower goal. Greater consideration must be given to those living and working in wolf areas. As more predators establish themselves in areas, the conflict with man increases. We can see the wolf chaos in my country of origin, Jämtland, in the middle of reindeer grazing. I think that if we have once interfered, we must also make sure that we take responsibility for both the present and the future. You have to be able to live, live and work in the countryside. Madam President, I would like Think of those who do not dare to let their children go to school or school bus or home from school. We can't have that. Meeting a wolf in a schoolyard is not funny, I can tell you. We must not forget that the wolf is a predator. For us Moderates, it is important to reduce the concentration of wolves where it is highest but also to build acceptance for Sweden's predator management. The Moderates believe that the administration should be based on the Riksdag's decision. Madam President, I would like Why does the Minister not take this seriously?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-415	Madam President, I would like The wolf arouses emotions and has always aroused a lot of emotions in Sweden, both when we have had a lot of wolf and when we have had some wolf. It stirs emotions in both directions. The wolf administration does not work, and the discontent becomes great. This affects not only the rural population, but ultimately also the wolf. If we have a lot of wolf in some areas, it must be handled by hunting, and we should be able to have a licence hunt in certain specific areas. A previous speaker mentioned that 90 wolves are approaching in Gävleborg County, which is 30 per cent of Sweden's wolves. These are remarkable figures. Many people care for the wolf, and that will also be unfortunate. There is talk of an illegal hunt for wolf, which is unfortunate. There is a risk that this hunt will grow, and then the wolf will be the loser. Yesterday, therefore, I launched a proposal from the Moderates for a fresh start in the wolf administration. If we reduce the strain to 170 animals, we will reduce the concentration where it is at its highest and will benefit animal production and the socio-economic effects in these areas. We can also get a new acceptance if we take a good look at how to deal with the wolf. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency says that 300 wolves are a favourable conservation status. I think we can have a viable and strong wolf tribe with fewer wolves. But then we may need to make other efforts. The Minister for Rural Development also tends to speak out warmly for other measures, such as predator-repellent fences. Yes, they work well in some cases. But the money to pay for these fences is to be taken from something. In addition, handling these fences will increase costs for keepers because it is more expensive than having ordinary fences. The money for predator-repellent fences that existed for my entire country a couple of years ago was not even enough to fence the pastures on my farm. So we are talking big money if we are going to such fences everywhere. I know these are really complex questions. Like I said, they stir emotions both ways. That is why I would like to extend a hand to the Social Democrats and the Minister for Rural Development. Let us sit down together and develop a new wolf management! We need a wolf management that raises the acceptance of both those who want more wolves and, above all, the people who will live with the wolf every day, who will have their children out to play, who will have their children on the schoolyard and who will also be able to carry out productive and good food production with grazing animals that promote our natural pastures in a very good way, pastures that house as many species as the rainforest does. It's extremely important. That is why I extend my hand to the Minister for Rural Development and hope and appeal for us to be able to sit down and take a stand in the predatory administration.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-423	Madam President, I would like The management of our predators is a difficult issue which affects many people. Especially the wolf has always aroused a lot of emotion, as the previous speaker was talking about. The wolf, like other game, does not contribute to climate-smart meat on our tables, but vice versa. While the wolf is part of our nature and contributes to an important balance in nature, it is a major problem for both reindeer husbandry and domestic animals owners. I spoke just before the interpellation debate with a man from Kilafors, mentioned earlier, about the wolf problem in them. I'm a hunter myself. I have two boots in my family. The hunting of loose dogs is the hunting form I and many hunters with me appreciate most. Thankfully, we have not suffered wolf attacks on our dogs, but I really suffer with those who have suffered. In 2018, the number of dogs killed by wolves decreased, but it has unfortunately increased again this year. On one side the debate is the wolf. On the other side are reindeer nutrition, loose dog hunting, farmland and domestic animals owners. In between we are decision-makers at different levels. We should make wise decisions based on different parameters. It is important that we follow developments and research, but also that we ensure that we have legally sustainable predator management. We are constantly gaining new knowledge. With new knowledge, new decisions may also be needed. However, we have a responsibility to maintain a favourable conservation status in the Swedish carnivores administration, where the wolf is part of it. At the same time, those living and operating in the countryside should be able to hunt and have animals, and the wolves that take reindeer, dogs and domestic animals should be removed. Since Wednesday, a total of five wolves have been killed in Jämtland in connection with protection hunting to protect reindeer husbandry in the county. Three of the wolves fell near Överturingen, on the border between Jämtland County and my county Västernorrland. During the last parliamentary term, it was decided to increase legal certainty in decisions on protection hunting. It was also decided to introduce an urgency requirement and to review the possibilities for appeal. Madam President, I would like On this basis, I have a question for the Minister. Does the Minister think that these decisions have made it easier to grant protection hunting on wolves?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-428	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Beckman so much for setting the interpellation. I would also like to thank everyone else who is involved in this matter. It is an issue that concerns, which all the debaters have raised. It touches in different ways, and it arouses a great deal of emotion. What is a major challenge in all kinds of debates that are fundamentally emotionally driven is to keep track of the facts and to make factual decisions. For me, it is awfully important that we ensure that the decisions we make are made on a scientific basis. I would say that research in Sweden and research reports produced in Sweden cannot be described as some contain facts and others contain opinions. That is how it was described in the debate. Somewhere you do the exact same thing yourself in that case – you like something about the facts and choose the facts that suit your own opinion. That's hard. In some sense, it's something we're probably a little too much of a man's ass to fall into. However, if I try to stick to what I see as clear facts on this issue, I can say that we have a bill presented by the former government, that is, by the Alliance government, during their second term, if I remember correctly. It states that we should have favourable conservation status. It also establishes a number, 170 - 270. It has then been questioned on a scientific basis whether this number is sufficient to have favourable conservation status. It has also been said that gender and socio-economic consequences should be taken into account and that efforts should be made to spread across the country. All those things are stuck. They are also formulated on the basis that we do not actually have our own national competence in this matter, this is an issue that is strictly regulated by EU law, Union law. What is clear is that it requires a favourable conservation status. This is also evident from all the things that I listed and that we have decided on in the Swedish Parliament. We also have a latent infringement case against Sweden. In the event that we would do something that makes the European Commission think that we are clearly moving away from favourable conservation status, a qualified guess is – it is clear that one can always only guess – that we risk getting an infringement case that is activated against us. I personally would find that unfortunate, because it would limit our ability to work within the framework of the decision that exists. Given this, I welcome John Widegren's constructive input into the discussion. I think it's hard to land in that you would say you could have 170 wolves. A figure would indicate that the number is more important than that they are well and healthy and so on. But for all the other parts, it is a question of building legitimacy linked to this issue. Lars Beckman talks about different media in his speech, but you can find other media that think otherwise. What happens, in the end, is to undermine legitimacy, so that the people lose confidence in having control of an issue and doing what is reasonable and necessary to achieve different objectives. I very much welcome the fact that we have a discussion on what is reasonable to do. It is good if we can find some common denominators aimed at delivering what I believe is in our common interest.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-434	Madam President, I would like The problem here is not the media. The problem is reality. The reality is, according to the County Administrative Board official at the meeting last night in Kilafors, that there are up to 90 wolves in Gävleborg. This is an untenable situation. A school principal says:"We had thought that the children would go to the school forest today, but we put safety first and the children should therefore stay in the school yard. This is a totally unacceptable situation. Here the government has an unabated responsibility to govern its authorities. I wouldn't be so surprised if there might be an inherent conflict between the two government parties. When you listen to the Member of Parliament from Sundsvall, it is clear that the Social Democrats have one line on this issue and the Green Party another. You just have to look at who's making an appeal against the protection hunts. It is the environmental parties themselves or the environmental party related organisations that do so. If you really want agriculture to be possible even in Ockelbo, the state has a responsibility to ensure that it can happen. If we really want to be able to farm in Alfta, Järvsö, Kilafors or Bollnäs, we cannot have a situation where there is a wolf attack after a wolf attack after a wolf attack. Then I can't even imagine, because I'm not a hunter myself, the feeling that would arise if my dog were eaten by a wolf. All of us who have pets know that a pet is a life companion. Imagine, then, that your life mate is eaten by a wolf. Everyone knows and follows what's happening. It is not that people are not familiar with this parliamentary decision. It was a very ambitious predator bill in which the Riksdag established, for example, that there should be predatory pressure on the whole of Sweden, except in the areas that the Government read out. It is unreasonable that one third of Sweden's wolf population or even more is located in Gävleborg. Then the government has a duty to act. I think the Social Democrats should take the extended hand of the Moderates. On this issue, we are likely to have a common understanding. If you are to be able to live north of Dalälven, you should be able to live outside our big cities, we must have a relevant predator policy. It is now reasonable for the two major parties to put their foot down and say 170 individuals. If we want to move with numbers, you could go back and say that you could have 35-45 animals in the Nordic countries, then you increase it to 100, and then you increase it to 170. It was done three times when we were working on the predator bill. Nevertheless, it is now a completely unreasonable and impossible situation for those who live in Gävleborg and other vargitful areas. The government has every opportunity to control its authorities via regulatory letters. Of course, some initiative must be taken by the government to help those living in the most dense areas. It is a completely unreasonable situation for the residents outside Stockholm.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-444	Madam President, I would like It is in many places in the country that this is a major problem. People dare not let their children go to school themselves, and principals dare not have children on a field trip. Last October, I think it was, we had in southern Stockholm one or more wolves who attacked and killed seven ewes and a ram. It is very often about small businesses who want to operate in rural areas but cannot do so. A stronger local anchoring is needed when deciding on hunting. There is also a need for better harmonisation of future management with the people and local industries affected by the wolf. I come back to the Parliament having made a decision. The government instructs an authority to investigate something, and it does. It comes up with something else, and then it decides that's what's going on. It seems that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency considers itself to have the right of interpretation before the government and parliament. I find that a little strange, Madam President. I very much hope that the Social Democrats and the Minister will now take the extended hand of the Moderates to deal with Sweden's predatory policy.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-449	Madam President, I would like As we can see from the flames of the debate, this arouses emotion. Even if the media reports in one way or another, there are a lot of examples on the table here, examples from media reports about the wolf and what it leads to. There is one more thing that makes you feel that we need to take a look. We now have a snowball rolling, and I think it rolls pretty fast. It puts both rural people and the wolf at a disadvantage. We now have wolf in Östergötland. We have the southernmost family group in Sweden in Östergötland. We haven't had it very long. But I get completely dialed all the time, and I get so many emails. I meet these people. These are exactly the same stories I hear as those from Gävleborg. There is a concern. How are we gonna deal with that? How are we supposed to take care of our grazing animals? Is there money for predator-repellent fences? Is it possible to hunt for protection? In the next sentence they think: We do not even dare to apply for protection hunting, because there is a threat situation from certain groups as soon as we make an application. It arouses emotion. Madam President, I would like I therefore once again extend my hand to the Minister for Rural Development and hope that we can take a seat on this. The Minister for Rural Development says we shouldn't talk about numbers. The reason I was talking about a figure is that by doing that reduction we will reduce the concentration where it is at its highest, and then we can make a fresh start there. This new start should not just be about the number of individuals and the type of protection hunting or license hunting we should use. It should be about the whole decision that was made through the bill. It should be countered to the important decision we have taken for rural areas on the food strategy. It is only when we get the two pieces to talk to each other that we get an administration that people can live and work around.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-456	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I note that the Socialist Government last term of office took decisions that gave a faster, more efficient and more equal decision-making process. We have also seen results of this in the surveys carried out each year. The latest inventory results from 2018/19 show that there were 300 wolves in Sweden. This is to compare with 305 wolves 2017/ 18, 355 wolves 2016/ 17 and 415 wolves in 2015/ 16. Thus, the number of wolves has fallen four years in a row after the Social Democratic Government has taken it seriously. No one benefits from an infected wolf debate. It is better to try to reduce conflicts around all predators and achieve a continued sustainable licence hunt for predators and also rapid protection hunting decisions that hold for court trials. The fact that protection hunting decisions are also taken regionally is extremely important. It should be close to those who are affected and know their own countryside and its conditions. It is also not just about the number of wolves, but above all about measures. We must continue with measures that make a difference and are important at the same time as we have order in the Swedish carnivores administration.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-460	Madam President, I would like This is an issue that concerns us. There is every reason for all people who are seriously interested in the issue to follow it and discuss it in a constructive spirit. Of course, I am happy to talk to the Moderates and others who have constructive thoughts and ideas about how to create greater legitimacy and live up to what we want together somewhere anyway. It is about having an orderly predator management with respect for the various quantities to be balanced against each other in this. Given that all the speakers in the interpellation debate are in some sense on the same side of the debate and describe a problem picture, I still want to nuance the picture a little. It is extremely important that we strive to give as accurate and comprehensive a picture as possible. Here are some statements that are not possible in the debate. For example, it is obvious that the government controls its authorities. There's no talk of it. But Sweden is also a member of the European Union. We do not rule over directives taken within that framework, but we are committed to living up to it. One such very clear directive that exists is the Species and Habitats Directive, which has a strictly protective initial value for predators. We cannot choose whether we want to comply or not, but we must deliver accordingly. Malin Larsson gave a good account of what I had written up and had actually intended to take in the debate, namely what the development looks like. It sounds to me in the debate that there is a running problem, that is, something that has become worse and worse and that can be blamed for the fact that the Green Party is in the government and has pushed on. It was not even implied, but clearly stated by the interpeller. The reality is that in the last four years the number of wolves has decreased from 415 to 300 at the last measurement. We have not had the end of the year, but there are indications that it may have decreased further. At the same time, it is claimed that licence hunting cannot be carried out. We have licence hunting in Sweden; that is quite possible, and it is recognised when making the assessment that it can be done without damaging favourable conservation status. The last time we had a license hunt was 2018. At that time, the license hunting was granted for 22 wolves in the counties with the greatest problems. To this we have protective hunting. So far this year, I can see that 13 wolves have been convicted on the grounds that protection hunting has been granted. Looking at the development of licence hunting over time – once again linked to the fact that other governments or other constellations would have done this better than the current government with its partners – I can see that, during this term of office, 88 wolves have been convicted on the basis of licence hunting. The last term of office of the party represented by Lars Beckman and John Widegren was 47. Somewhere it is a matter of all parties having to deal with the facts on the table once you are in a position of government.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-469	Madam President, I would like There is just as little wolf on Södermalm as there are environmental parties north of Dalälven. It is clear that reality strikes the rhetoric of the Minister for Rural Development, as I would say it is. The County Administrative Board official said at a meeting in Kilafors yesterday clearly: There are up to 90 individuals wolf in Gävleborg. Nine zero, 90, and this in one of the 21 counties! I myself have been involved in adopting the bill in the Riksdag, which has said that there should be a distribution throughout the country. One cannot even say with the best goodwill in the world that 90 individuals out of 270 or 300 who are in Gävleborg would be good spread throughout the country. I would like a clear message from the Minister for Rural Development on the following. Firstly, it is not acceptable that there are so many animals concentrated on the same surface. Secondly, what measures does the Government intend to take? As my colleague John Widegren says here, if people feel a great deal of disillusionment because we do not have a predatory policy that works, there is a risk that the wolf will disappear in other ways. This is a development that no one wants to see at all. I am not a dog owner, and I am not a hunter, but I strictly relate to how people experience the situation. This applies, for example, when you meet a preschool in Ljusdal, where the staff say that they do not dare to let the children out on the farm. It's their reality. It's about how they experience the situation. Of course, it is not a problem for the media to write about it, but the problem is that the state and government are not acting to solve the situation for all those living outside Stockholm. I really think the Minister should take the outstretched hand from the Moderates.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-476	Madam President, I would like It will be a bit problematic to have a constructive debate. I am talking about what the actual development looks like and what something is like: that the wolf number has actually decreased and that both the protection hunt and the licence hunt have increased. I also say that there has been a decision on urgency which has meant that the long appeal proceedings have not been brought and that the appeals have been brought before a court in order to take more legally certain decisions. Then the answer is: the problem is not reality but rhetoric! I do not know; it is hardly worthwhile even to respond to such a thing. Apart from that, I am seriously linked to the fact that it is awfully important that in all policy areas, so also this, we have legitimacy for things to work. It becomes particularly important in all matters that are strongly emotionally governed, and I would say that this is a typical policy area that contains a great many strong feelings. That is why, despite the somewhat ludicrous tone of Lars Beckman in the interpellation debate, I will gladly talk to the Moderates about how we build legitimacy on these issues within the framework of what is given, for example, that we are governed by European directives. There are issues here where I can see that we need to develop it and take new steps. We have not talked about this in the debate so far, but it may, for example, be about the inventory methodology. It is sometimes questioned whether it is good enough and scientifically based. You could push it in the direction of, for example, using DNA. As you can see, there are absolutely questions to talk about, but my speaking time here is not enough.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-482	Madam President, I would like Elin Segerlind has asked me whether I intend to act to phase out the cages from the Swedish egg industry and ensure that the cages are not reintroduced. Sweden has been a pioneer in improving the housing of laying hens. As early as the late 1990s traditional cages, so-called uncooked cages, were banned in Sweden. Since then, there has been a requirement for all hens to be kept in housing systems that offer nesting, sitting stick and sand baths. Sweden was the first country in the EU to fully implement the transition to a more animal-friendly housing system for laying hens. It would take some time until 2012 for the rest of the EU to follow and also to ban unsealed cages. The welfare of laying hens is a topical issue at EU level, not least since Sweden, together with Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands and Germany, contributed to the creation of the EU Animal Welfare Platform by the European Commission in 2017. Cooperation countries have also contributed to the ongoing work under the platform to improve the welfare of poultry, an area where common legislation is currently lacking. According to the animal welfare regulation, laying hens should always be given the opportunity to meet their need to lay in nest, sit elevated and sand baths regardless of the housing system. This is well in line with the provision in the new Animal Welfare Act that animals should be kept and managed in a good animal environment and in such a way as to promote their welfare and that they can carry out behaviours for which they are strongly motivated and which are important for their well-being. Most laying hens are currently kept in free-range systems, and this proportion has increased in recent years. In view of this, I do not intend to take any specific action on this issue.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-486	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. On 1 April this year Sweden was given a new law on animal welfare. In that law it became clearer wordings that include that animals should be able to perform their natural behavior, which is an important part of their well-being. It is also made clear that animals should have the right to move freely. The law was described by the government when it came as a completely new, updated and modern animal welfare legislation where the intention was clearly to strengthen respect for animals and to ensure good animal welfare. There was light and some hope of change after the law's adoption, but very little has happened since then. Today, in Sweden, some 800 000 hens are still trapped in small cages in the Swedish egg industry. The right for them to perform their natural behavior shines with their absence. In these cages the hens cannot stretch their wings. They cannot lie down without touching each other or the walls of the cages. These are cramped cages that cannot be considered compatible with the ambition now set out in animal welfare legislation that animals should be able to exercise their natural behaviour. The question of chickens in cages is by no means a new question. In 1988 Astrid Lindgren was promised a cage ban by the then Prime Minister Ingvar Carlsson, a promise he unfortunately did not keep. At that time, the argument was that there were no adequate alternatives to the cages in the large-scale egg industry. However, much has happened since then, as you know. Today, free-range systems are by far the most common among Swedish egg producers. It is thanks to us consumers, who have actively shown that we want eggs from free-range hens, and the active work of companies to offer us just that. Despite the major changes made, some 10 percent of the hens are still kept in cages. Because these eggs are difficult to sell directly to consumers, they are used in mixed products and ready-to-eat foods sold in supermarkets, where we as consumers cannot possibly know whether the eggs come from free-range hens or not. Therefore, political decisions are needed to ensure that all hens in the Swedish egg industry have the rights required by the Animal Welfare Act. A decision is needed to phase out the cages from Swedish egg production. The issue can no longer lie solely on the shoulders of consumers. According to a Novus survey carried out earlier this year, nine out of ten Swedes want the cages in the egg industry to be phased out. Several countries have already taken decisions on this, including Germany, Austria and Switzerland, as well as several states in the United States. In Sweden we want to beat our chests as the main country when it comes to strong animal protection, but in several areas we have fallen behind. According to the Animal Welfare Act, it is up to the government to ensure that animals are kept in a way that promotes, among other things, their welfare. If necessary, the Government has the right to decide that a particular form of animal husbandry is to be prohibited and to notify it in the Animal Welfare Regulation. When it comes to chickens, there is no doubt that the standards they have today do not meet the requirements. To be able to stretch out the wings should be every hen's right. Yet the government has not acted on the question or answered the people's will to change. That's why I'm asking the minister if the government intends to act. I am sorry to hear that this is not the case.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-495	Madam President, I would like While you're here, why don't you take the opportunity to jump into some debates. That's funny. In fact, I would like to start by commending the Minister for Rural Development on this issue. I think this is a wise position from the government. This is a rather difficult question. We are very careful to have strict animal welfare and environmental regulations in Sweden, but the question of cage hens is not so easy. I understand exactly Elin Segerlind's thoughts and reasoning, absolutely, but they must also be weighed against other things. I myself have worked a lot in poultry production in my youth, both in free-range systems and in cage systems. You may think what you want about the cages, but the fact is that the chickens that live in cages are usually the ones that have the best production. They are healthier, they live longer and they have a high production a little longer. So these hens do not feel as bad as many people want to claim – we are talking about decorated cages. That makes the question even more difficult. Moreover, this production will be cheaper than free-range production, largely due to a slightly higher production. Industry wants cheaper eggs, and the alternative for industry is to import more eggs. I think that would be unfortunate, because this production is always getting worse for the environment and animal welfare. We know that from old times. That is why I think this is a difficult issue. The trade has in many ways taken a stand for whether you want caged or free-range hens. The consumption eggs today are, in principle, only derived from free-range hens, but, as I said, the industry still wants these slightly cheaper eggs. I believe that this will certainly resolve itself in due course. But the caged hens in Sweden today have what has been said quite well. That is why I think that this is a real position that the government is taking. It is also an important part of the food strategy that we can maintain our production in Sweden, a production that is quite good and that benefits 800 000 hens and a number of breeders. I believe, as I said, that the Minister for Rural Development will land wisely in this. That is a good step in the food strategy. I also believe that trade will take care of the problem and come up with a better solution gradually, and during that time it is important that we keep profitability in Swedish agriculture. While I am standing here, I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Affairs a question. When we removed the unenriched cages we exported many of these, and then we bought eggs back to Sweden from things that were forbidden in Sweden. Does the Minister for Rural Development think that there is a risk, if we were to ban this, that it would be just as crazy once more?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-502	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Elin Segerlind! Initially, I want to say that Sweden has and will have the best animal welfare in the world. I would argue that the legislation that came into place on 1 April contributes to strengthening it. It becomes more modern, and it goes in the right direction. At the same time, I am not in favour of regulating anything if there are other incentives that work equally well or better. If you look at the development in Sweden since 2010 you can see that we then had 35.2 per cent of the poultry population in the decorated cage. In 2018, eight years later, the figure was down to 9.3 per cent. For 2019 the figure appears to be below 8 percent. This means that we have a development at a rather rapid pace, without a ban on the ground, towards what I feel Elin Segerlind is striving for. I think that's good. There are certainly several reasons why this development is taking place. One such is the consumer power, which Elin Segerlind himself referred to in his interpellation. It is clear above all that the table eggs you buy are almost exclusively from free-range hens, as this is what customers are asking for. Dissemination of knowledge, labelling that enables consumers to make informed choices and the willingness of consumers to pay to buy something that is produced in a fair way is effective in Sweden. It clearly affects the market and how we produce. The last fixed figure I have in my table is the 2018 figure. Compared with the EU, 53% of hens in the EU are kept in cages, compared with 9.3% in Sweden. So it is perhaps not so very strange that there are some countries that need to resort to legislation to move their processes and where it is a bit more urgent. What kind of tools you use to achieve development and a direction that you want is a choice of policy. The interpellant mentioned Germany as an example, and Germany is in my papers. It has worked on legislative requirements with a transitional period up to 2025. This means that in six years' time, with the same development that we have had in Sweden so far, we have phased this out more quickly without legislation than we think we can do in Germany. Austria has also worked on legislation and had a phase-out period of 15 years. There is therefore nothing that really verifies that it would be faster, simpler or more effective to ensure that we do not have any cages in Sweden compared to the incentives that we already have in place. That is why the answer is that, as long as we have this development, I see no need to legislate in this area.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-510	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I cannot say that I am surprised, but it is still sad to hear that the Social Democrats as a party have abandoned the ambition that you stated in the election campaign in 2018. In a survey from Djurens Rätt, you said: We work first and foremost for all animals to be kept loose. All in all, we consider that the great benefits of loose systems, with the possibility of going outdoors, are the right way to go, especially when it comes to increasing the ability of animals to behave naturally. From the Minister's answer, I can only understand that this is no longer a priority ambition. And I find it very difficult to see that it would be your party of cooperation in the government that is holding you back. In his reply, the Minister says that the hens are given the opportunity to meet their natural needs such as laying in nest, sitting high and sandbathing with sufficient freedom of movement, as I understand it. And that's why today's cage system is supposed to live up to animal welfare legislation. The Left Party does not in any way share that view. We can get through the different parts. But first let us note that the hens in the egg industry originate from the jungle hens in Asia. They are still the same species and retain the strong motivation to sit high up at night to avoid predators, to choose a suitable nest, to sand bath to clean the feathers and to slice and peck on the ground more than half of their waking time to feel good. None of that can be satisfactorily done with the current system. Firstly, are the hens kept in cages given sufficient freedom of movement? The Minister says yes. But if we start from the fact that each hen is given less than an A4 sheet of its own space in the cages, it is undeniably difficult to answer yes to that question. In the run-up to the new Animal Welfare Act, the Legal Rapporteur pointed out that animals should be able to lie down, stand up, turn, scratch and groom their fur or plumage. However, according to the Swedish Board of Agriculture, smaller areas are still allowed than would be required to allow the hens to lie down and clean their plumage. More specifically, their spaces are close to half as large as they would have to be in that respect. Secondly, is it possible to use sand baths? The Minister says yes. The Left Party says no, not in reality. The criticism here is mainly directed at the fact that the litter baths in the cages are too small and that it is limited in time, which means that not all hens can or want to use them. The straw bath is down to one fifth of the size they would need to be, according to researchers at SLU, among others. As a result, many hens do not use the resources put into the decorated cages. Some hens even try to do the sand bath on the grid floor. It can lead to damage and does not give the effect the chicken wants. Thirdly, can a stick a few centimeters up be considered to satisfy the need to sit high? Yes, the minister says. No, the scientists say. Since the height of the cage may be as small as 45 centimetres, the seat stick is only a few centimetres above the cage floor. Sitting high is part of their instinctive behavior. Researchers believe that the effect of just a few centimetres of elevation is doubtful and that the hens rather view it as an extra floor that happens to have the advantage of not being covered with bars. Much has happened in the last 30 years to reduce the number of hens in cages. But the figure of under 10% has been static for a long time. This is probably due to the fact that the power of consumers no longer reaches producers as the eggs are mainly used as ingredients in different food products. It may look worse in other countries. But if Sweden is to be a leading country, we should also put on the leadership shirt that we want to wear so badly. Now it is up to politics and the government in particular to listen to both consumers and research and release the cages.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-520	Madam President, I would like I expect the Minister to return to my question in the next speech. What is one's view of the risk of the very same product being imported instead if we introduce bans and remove systems? It is a fact that industry wants some of the cheaper eggs. We will find it difficult to make large-scale free-range production as cheap as the industry wants it. Madam President, I would like Trade, as the Minister for Rural Affairs says, has moved fast towards wanting free-range eggs. The market manages it in an exemplary way. I must say again that I understand the interpellete when she presents figures, measurements, science and such things. But reality does not always become that way. As I said, I have been around some and looked at systems of decorated cages. Those chickens are fine. They are less picked, they have higher production and the air is many times better than in the free-range systems. So this is not a simple question. However, I agree that there is science that shows different things. The market takes us there. We do not need to legislate on that. We do not need to break down with another law for Swedish agriculture that will make production more difficult. We will of course try to keep as much production as we can in the country. If the market only wants to pay for free-range eggs in the future, that will certainly be the case. But we do not have to make it difficult for our traders. I ask the Minister for Rural Development again: if we come up with a little too tough laws and rules, is there a risk that we will have a larger import of products that are getting worse than the Swedish ones?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-525	Madam President, I would like I apologize to John Widegren. I did not take note of the question in the first round. I'm glad it came back. If a cost situation for what we produce cannot be justified, there is always a risk that one chooses instead to import at a lower cost and then usually something that is less produced. Another issue that we are pushing hard, for example within the framework of the EU and not least linked to the CAP negotiations, is that we should be able to credit ourselves with the good animal welfare that we have in Sweden. I believe that it is the best in the world and that it is important that we have it. Elin Segerlind also asks a number of questions that I will try to graze off. The first was a claim that we have abandoned our electoral promise. I don't think I was that vague. What I am saying is that I am in no way convinced that legislation is the fastest way to achieve what I believe is the common ambition of mine and of Elin Segerlind in this area. I see that, given other incentives, development has driven towards free-range hens in a stronger way than it has in countries that have chosen, for example, to legislate. Would it stop completely or should nothing happen, it is reasonable to have a discussion about it and if you need to do something else. I also note that the construction of new cages requires testing. We therefore have a pretty good overview of what the development looks like when it comes to whether something new is added, if it should decrease in one place but grow elsewhere. Statistics show that nothing has been tested in Sweden since 2010. In nine years no one has chosen new cages or replaced something old with it. Everything indicates that all developments are moving in the direction that Elin Segerlind and I want. I also get a number of questions about how big the stick should be, how high in the air it should be, how big the sand bath should be and so on. I don't think it's up to politics to decide how big the stick or the sand bath should be. I have full confidence that our responsible authorities will listen to the scientific basis and advice that science provides and that the authorities will ensure that it is implemented in a reasonable manner. We have tightened up the legislation quite recently. It's got six months on its neck. Of course, the authorities that draw up rules and see that it works, which therefore has control responsibilities for this, must comply with what has been decided by the policy in law. That is the order I think we must have. There is also another discussion – I do not really remember who brought it up. It is a matter of whether what you buy to cook for your breakfast comes from a free-range chicken, but otherwise there is no incentive to demand something else. However, I have a list with me of companies that, according to my own report, are phasing out other eggs. It is Axfood, Bergendahl Citygross, Coop, Lantmännen, Martin & Servera, the hamburger chain Max, the hamburger chain McDonalds, Pågen and SJ. This indicates that those who use it elsewhere have also clearly begun to ask for something else. I therefore see no risk that the demand for good quality has run out.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-533	Madam President, I would like I share this picture and do not think that we will see an increase in battery hens in the future either. I'm just saying, 800,000 is too many. Nevertheless, the conclusion is that caged hens are unable to exercise their natural behaviour. The cages give each hen less than an A4 sheet to move on. The litter bath is one fifth of the size they would need to be for the hens to use them, and the seat stick is placed a few centimeters rather than a few meters above the ground. I agree that it is not up to us to state such details in politics, but it is up to us to give the authorities a mandate that will enable them to write good regulations and create a good welfare for animals. Overall, this does not give a picture of a good animal welfare. The government parties Social Democrats and the Green Party were, I thought and probably a great deal with me, agreed that animals should be free-going and therefore also agreed on this issue. Therefore, there should be good conditions for a decision to phase out cages once and for all. It's not fast enough. The life of chickens in cages with less than one A4 sheet of their own space to move on is not a good animal welfare. The Minister is happy to talk about Sweden as a country with a high reputation in terms of animal welfare. That may be true in some contexts, but we are not the best in all situations. If the Minister wants us to regain our role as a leading country in many respects in practice and not just as a memory of ancient days, we cannot continue to keep chickens in cages. We would not pioneer in this matter, for other countries have already gone ahead. Now, however, it is time for Sweden to follow suit, and the minister would have the opportunity to incorporate Ingvar Carlsson's promise to Astrid Lindgren 30 years later. It is time for the Minister and the government to listen to the people, to research and to their own moral compass. It's time to let go of the cages.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-539	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elin Segerlind, for a good debate! Given the rhetoric, I, for my part, must say to the Left Party and Elin Segerlind that it is time to drop the placard policy in this area. What gives results in reality for caged hens should be the most important thing. It is worrying when it is argued that other countries are forerunners in this area only because they make a law. They do so in a situation where they are in a much worse situation than Sweden. They have decommissioning plans that are much slower than what we see in Sweden with the incentives we have chosen. You try to pretend that you can only make changes through laws. Experience clearly shows that this is not the case. I am determined that we shall have a good animal welfare in our country. I am very pleased that we have got new legislation in place. If, in various areas and on proper grounds, it does not prove to be good enough or show a development that is bad or not done for caged hens or other animals, I am prepared to adjust it. That is not the case at present. I do not think we have any reputation to repair in this area. I believe that we are the world leader in this area too. When I met colleagues in Europe, I have got the impression that other countries are looking more at Sweden. We'll make sure it stays that way. Thanks anyway for being a blowtorch! In some sense, it's probably always the case that you need a debate if you're going to be alert and make sure you don't stagnate. I naturally welcome the debate.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-544	Madam President, I would like Ann-Sofie Alm has asked me what measures I intend to take to achieve the objectives of the food strategy. The national food strategy with a view to 2030 was adopted by the Riksdag on 20 June 2017. It means that a clear line is anchored in the life funds policy up to 2030. The overall objectives of the strategy are a competitive food chain where total food production increases, while at the same time achieving relevant national environmental objectives, with a view to creating growth and jobs and contributing to sustainable development throughout the country. R egeringen har under 2017 – 2019 avt att 1 billion kronor on the implementation of the food strategy, which can be divided into two parts: d els measures within the rural development programme, and efforts within the framework of the government's action plan. In total, it includes nearly 50 actions and actions to contribute to the overall objectives of the food strategy. This includes, among other things, support for the industry to coordinate to collaborate on research and innovation, in order to promote an innovative, sustainable, profitable and competitive food sector. In addition, there are measures to promote Swedish food exports as part of the continued efforts to increase production, competitiveness and profitability in the food chain. The competitiveness of agriculture is an absolutely central aspect of the food strategy, which in turn is an essential part of a farmer's package, but it also includes the emergency aid that is decided on in the context of our amending budget. The formulation of the EU's common agricultural policy is also an important aspect for the implementation of the food strategy. In the budget proposal for 2020, the Council proposes, as part of a peasant package, that the financing of the food strategy be strengthened to the tune of 261 million SEK onor in 2020 and 122 million SEK onor per year in the period 2021-2025. This means that we can create continuity in the work ahead with long-term measures, and that is an important part of increasing the competitiveness of the food chain. I see that the Swedish food chain has great potential that is important to exploit. In the context of the work on the strategy, we have identified a number of issues that are relevant to companies in the food chain, so that there are conditions for companies to continue to develop. We need to keep an eye on the high cost situation of regular production in some cases, the challenges of innovation and knowledge development, and the need for further simplification of rules, in particular those that affect companies' ability to grow. These are important issues on which I see every reason to continue working.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-550	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I regard the Minister as a person who is down to earth and committed. Unfortunately, I see that we have a government that is in favour of a counterproductive policy, if you look at the whole. Mr. Old President! Unfortunately, I did not hear an answer to how the objectives of the food strategy are to be achieved. After two and a half years, farms have not yet seen any difference. Many floating words do not put Swedish food on the table. Let's start with the wolf hunt! The Moderates want to introduce more hunting for wolves under regulated forms, such as protection hunting and licence hunting, as it benefits Swedish food production and biodiversity. The more farmers dare to invest in livestock, the more open and grazed land and thus more food to the people as a bonus. Today, there are twice as many wolves as the lowest number decided by Parliament. And farmers choose to close down their production. We need to solve that equation. Directly linked to this, it can be mentioned that legal certainty for farmers needs to be strengthened. Today we see farmers suffering when animal rights activists carry out pure death threats and commit crimes of terror, harassment and persecution without, if any, imposing particularly severe penalties. However, there are successful examples in our neighbouring countries, which, with terrorist legislation, protect rural entrepreneurs and thus also safeguard future food production. The Moderates have had many suggestions for hunting and fishing. It's about how to simplify the rules for hunters instead of screwing it up. Making it easier to make use of what the forest provides in the form of locally produced food is climate-smart. Take the boar plague, for example! The feral pig strain grows at the expense of crops, causing traffic accidents. Farmers testify that the plague is overpowering and choose to close down their farms. Here the laws should be changed so that it will be easier to sell wild boar meat, both privately and on the commercial market. Hunters, like farmers, are filled with gratitude for nature. It is used with awe and always with strong morals as a driving force behind its sustainability work. No hunter would shoot wild boar and just leave the meat lying. That is why we need regulatory simplification. I ate wild boar steaks, Mr. Old President, on Drottninggatan a few weeks ago. It was delicious. Mr. Old President! I would like to ask the Minister whether the government will make it easier for hunters to sell their game also commercially. In such cases, when will we see it happen? I would like to ask the Minister why the government does not ensure that the administration starts from and follows Parliament's decision on the number of wolves in Sweden. I would also like to ask the Minister whether the government is taking the threats to Swedish farmers seriously and will work to ensure that it is judged on the basis that this threatens Swedish food production and on the basis of the terrorist crimes that they actually are.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-559	Mr. Old President! When the food strategy comes up on the agenda, one would like to go up and debate. The interpellation of food strategy objectives opens up some different angles to the debate. I am one of those who have said for some time that the decision on the food strategy is perhaps the most important rural decision that we have taken in the Swedish Parliament for a very long time. I'm very glad we've taken it. I sometimes have concerns and sometimes get signals. People say it's great to have adopted the strategy, but nothing is happening. Two and a half years later we are still talking about action plans, and soon Action Plan No 2, as I understand. There's not much going on at the individual level. It's a little unfortunate. I have asked the Minister for Rural Development many times before what concrete tools she wants to give, so I am not going to ask that now, but I would like to turn the debate a little differently. I see a very big problem for Swedish agriculture today, and it concerns the supply of skills. Large farms in particular are screaming for more staff, which is very difficult to find. In recent times, large animal productions have had to rely on people from other countries who come to Sweden and work. Now the problem is that the Swedish krona is becoming so extremely weak that these people no longer want to come to Sweden and work, because they lose money when they go back to their countries. It's a big worry. I believe that the main objective of the food strategy is to increase food production. After all, they need to be as fast as farmers can grow, and then the supply of skills is a very important issue. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Development: how are we to meet the needs of agriculture for skills provision? Another issue raised by interpeller AnnAnn-Sofie Alm concerns threats and harassment against agriculture. It is a huge concern and has actually even led some farmers to close down. It is farmers who engage in a production that complies with laws that have been laid down by the Riksdag and recommendations and regulations that have been laid down by authorities and others. At the same time, they are exposed to threats, violence and harassment. It can even go so far as to be beaten up. I myself got a touch of this this summer when I advocated Swedish meat production. When a Swedish authority said that they would no longer use meat in their meals, I got quite a ton of this, and it is unpleasant. It is unpleasant because outside Parliament I am a farmer. I have my own animal production, and my family is home on the farm when I'm up here in the weeks. It's okay if someone wants to threaten, persecute or harass me, but when my family gets exposed and my company gets exposed, it's unfortunate. Unfortunately, Mr President, I do not receive any signals that this is decreasing. It's more like it's increasing. In some way it becomes more and more accepted in society to actually persecute and harass people who engage in an economic activity – it is an economic activity that is extremely important for Sweden, an economic activity that in many ways will contribute to our environmental and climate goals. That's where I get worried. I would also like an answer to this question from our Rural Minister: how do we view this development, and how can we improve the security situation for our farmers? I will settle for the two questions.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-570	Mr. Old President! I am always very happy to discuss the food strategy. I share John Widegren's view that this is one of the most important rural decisions that Parliament has probably taken in close time. One of the important things is actually the development of it: that you do it in dialogue with the industry and that you have a focus on an issue. It is always a big challenge to manage to maintain focus after delivering a strategy. That is why we now choose to work with action plans. Perhaps this work will need to be broadened further. Thank you very much for raising the issue and giving us the opportunity to talk about it! Then, of course, I don't share your analysis of results in large parts. But one thing is quite obvious, and I certainly agree with that. I think John Widegren also picked this up. Many people you meet, such as farmers, say: When is it noticed at farm level? When does that come to me? It is clear that in some sense it is a balancing process. It is about expecting something very concrete at farm level while it is linked to that a strategy in my world is very much about having to work long-term and sustainable. Initially in the strategy, it is a lot about focusing on research and innovation, about creating collaborative platforms, about increasing the opportunities for more companies to go to export, about specifically targeted funds to work with marketing Swedish products and so on. Of course, all those parts are terribly important from my perspective. We need to strengthen the profitability of the industry. This means strengthening the demand and efficiency of all parts of primary production all the way into an export chain. It is not something you do overnight, but it is a job that must be allowed to be long-term. Then there are other elements of a strategy that are important, and these are more short-term balls. If you find a good way to deal with the simplification issue, I think it would really mean that you would experience something happening at farm level. This is probably the most regulatory industry we have, given that we deal with food, which means that we fall under the type of legislation that exists. I think few of us think that we should not have systems in Sweden that ensure by far that we have healthy, safe and healthy products. One should of course clear out any rules and laws that may not be appropriate, but I think there will always be a lot of rules and laws on this in a country like Sweden. One important question is to work with is how to simplify in order to be able to do the right thing. Can you use digitized platforms? Can you find ways that you don't have to report as much, or can you report in other ways? One question that has been raised and which we are now investigating is how to pay. Is it possible to pay in arrears instead? It would increase legitimacy because the control exists, that you get what you want and so on. So there are a number of different issues linked to rules that are in the pipeline right now. We are currently in the phase of developing Action Plan Two. It will hopefully be presented before the end of the year – in other words very soon, given that we are in December. Then it's all about doing okay, what do we do now? I cannot, of course, precede the action plan until it is ready and we are prepared to present it, but I note that it is a question of dealing with and working on the close issues. For example, the regulatory issues are, for me personally, very motivating in the new action plan as well. Now the time runs out, so I follow up with the rest in the next post.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-579	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I look forward to the future. This is the most regular business we have. It has 600 more rules to follow than other sectors, so if the Minister can at least come back with a list of half, i.e. 300 rules, I think we would have a fairly large majority in Parliament to pull them through. When it comes to rural innovation and development, Mr. President of the Age, there are examples where the government opposes the Riksdag's decision. Then I'm thinking mainly of the farm sale. Today wine and beer production is not just a damejeanne in the cellar standing and simmering; it is a whole world of science mastered by chemists with a solid knowledge. Allowing farm sales would provide rural areas with high-tech jobs, additional sources of income and also a boost for our tourism industry. I would like to ask the Minister why the government is obstinate against the Riksdag and not for farm sales, but the Riksdag explicitly and repeatedly announced this to the Government. Does the Minister not think that this would be a small but good tool to release innovation power in rural areas and thus make it easier for Swedish agriculture to flourish and feel confident in the future? Mr. Old President! I would also like to ask the Minister about sharper tools for increasing Swedish food production in procurement. Today, food is served in schools, nursing homes and hospitals that are imported. If you examine the imported food and look at how it is produced, you quickly realize that if the food were to be produced here, the farmer would have been thrown into prison – a bit of a grandeur, but that is actually true. The Moderates believe that procured food should of course also comply with Swedish production rules as far as possible. What measures does the Minister intend to take to promote Swedish food production in public procurement? A few months ago, we received information from the Supervisory Board of Västra Götaland that Swedish animal production could be threatened by African swine fever. I then asked why not the invitation from the county administrative boards was to buy Swedish-produced food, as it would be one of the main measures to prevent the spread of the infection. Mr. Old President! The answer I got was that I should ask the department responsible. So I do now: Why do we not see murderous advertising for Swedish-produced food when we know that it is safer, healthier and better for Swedish entrepreneurship?
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-588	Mr. Old President! I will soon be expecting answers to my first questions. I think that the Minister raises a very interesting angle, and it is the whole bit of rules and administration that affects agricultural holdings. An agricultural entrepreneur is often alone in his company. Yet he can be a pet owner and a dairy producer and is burdened by all these rules and the administration mentioned by the interpeller. Many times, as I said, there are 600 more laws and regulations than for an ordinary entrepreneur. We have a big animal production back home. It is clear that I could employ an administrator who handled all the records and other matters relating to cross-compliance, municipal controls and other matters. But unfortunately I don't have the profitability of my production that I can hire people for that purpose. I would like to employ ten more people, but profitability does not allow that. In fact, the profitability is so poor in Swedish agriculture that many farmers go on their knees, because they have to work double shifts instead of having an employee doing the job. Mr. Old President! I think that if we are serious about reducing rules and administration and other things, we will have to make some uncomfortable decisions. This may be what we think is clear that it should remain, but I do not think it will affect the safety of our food chain. Most of the trouble and rules we've put in lately. We didn't have the problem before, but this has come about to, yes, I don't know — occupy some paper-turner on some authority? What if a farmer could face an authority instead of meeting three or four different authorities that do basically the same kind of control? It would be very much appreciated if we could streamline it so much that you meet a person and an authority and prepare for a check instead of four.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-593	Mr. Old President! It is doubtful if I will be able to answer all the questions that come, but I do my best to graze a bit and pick some mixed. I will start with something that I certainly do not want to forget, a question from the last round when Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm asked questions that John Widegren also asked about threats and violence. I think that is a question that deserves to be addressed and answered and not forgotten in the debate when it is set. I am both deeply concerned about and critical about such things occurring in a country like Sweden. Few individuals engage in such activities, but they cause enormous harm. That is not acceptable. That's why I'm very pleased that they reacted very strongly to the latest wave of attention. We in Sweden have so far changed the rules for camera surveillance. We did this in 2018, which means that an agricultural business can set up cameras without special permission, something that was needed earlier. In 2017, we also tightened both the minimum penalty for grossly illegal threats and the penalty scale for serious damage. In addition, this year we have given a mission to the Police Authority to report how it works to combat crime linked precisely to animal activism. It is therefore a targeted task to look at this particular type of crime. We have also indicated that if we identify good ways of dealing with this issue, we are prepared to look further at them. I therefore think it is very clear that we are taking this issue seriously, and I am also pleased that other parties are raising the issue so that we continue to keep up the pressure. This is not acceptable. As far as rules are concerned, I would like to say briefly that I do not believe that the number of rules is the thing. Even 300 rules are quite incomprehensible to handle. However, you can work with other things, such as meeting fewer authorities and organising the rules in such a way that it becomes more administratively manageable. In fact, I think that digital solutions can be a great help here. This is based on expanding broadband throughout the country and other issues, and we need to address them. One needs to take a holistic approach to this. This is, of course, important. Farm sales were lifted up here. I do not agree with the idea that the government is obstinate on this issue. I note that the issue has been investigated twice. The last time was by the former alliance government, which sat on the investigation for several years before it was written by 2014. The issue is complex, especially because farm sales threaten the Swedish monopoly, the system company monopoly, for which Sweden has a clear exception in the EU. Once it has become a reality, no politician has been prepared to risk the monopoly. That's what you're gambling with. However, in the January agreement, which is the basis of this government cooperation, it is decided, given that there is an announcement for the Riksdag, that farm sales will be re-examined. It is also interesting in this context that Finland is experimenting a little because Sweden and Finland have exceptions. The government is following developments. As far as the LOU is concerned, I note that work is under way. It is also something that is regulated within the framework of EU cooperation. We are looking at the possibilities to demand that procurement be conducted in accordance with Swedish law. We cannot demand that you procure Swedish – you must not do that because it is contrary to the EU framework – but I hope that we can test that procurement takes place in accordance with Swedish law.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-604	Mr. Old President! Thank you for taking the threats and harassment against farms seriously! I hope that part 2 of the food strategy will contain strong measures that promote Swedish agriculture's export opportunities. It's vital. I'm gonna get a little personal. All children who are diagnosed with cancer in Sweden get a super string. The child threads beads on the upper string, which symbolises various events in the course of the disease. It helps children and parents to get through the traumas in the different phases. There are 39 different pearls, such as the ambulance bead, the birthday bead and the pearl for when you start losing your hair. The super string becomes something that the children are really proud of and want to show the comrades when they get home. But when life hangs on a thread, the issue of antibiotic resistance is incredibly important. Our Swedish agriculture is an example for the rest of the world, and we have a unique opportunity and obligation to spread the knowledge of how to keep food-producing animals healthy and productive with a small use of antibiotics. Using this expertise makes a significant contribution to reducing the global threat from resistant bacteria. Mr. Old President! I really wish that our Swedish farmers and foresters will have confidence in the future. It's a great feeling. So, Mr. Age President, I wonder what concrete tools the government has for increasing Swedish food exports.
i-b24b017bd796ec4b-610	Mr. Old President! Thank you for the questions. There are issues here that I do not have time to deal with, and I refer to some questions that have recently been raised in other debates. Instead, I will try to sum up, given what is the basis for what is so important, namely that we work to create the best conditions we can for industries that are important for Sweden and for jobs and growth throughout the country. I think we have a great deal of consensus on this, but we differ in what we think are effective tools. I think the rule issue is important, I think it is very important that we work with research and innovation and I think we need to ensure that agriculture gets its share of research and innovation. We also need to think about how we shape this. As mentioned in the previous debate, these are sectors with low profitability. It is not easy to bring in equity for research and innovation. Here we need to think about how society can help. A specific question that came up in the last round of questions is linked to what I had written down that I would say anyway. The question is about exports. I think we need to make sure that the whole chain is connected. If we are talking about increasing profitability and self-sufficiency, we must also be able to export more. Here we see a positive development. Swedish exports increased last year, 2018, by 3 percent, and for the first time an export value of SEK 50 billion was passed. We are working to get to export protocols with China and other important markets, and Business Sweden has been given a targeted financial mandate to specifically work with marketing of Swedish products. It's important and good. Then the interpellant lifted up the AMR. I should like to stress the importance of this issue. We must show that, together with Denmark, we are the best in the world on this issue. Swedish producers should be paid better, and we must also work to spread the knowledge we have. There's a plan.
