i-085277fe42a2786a-0	Madam President, I would like One starting point is that all adults in our society are directed to working for their livelihoods. This means that the conditions of work are of fundamental importance to our living conditions. The most obvious thing is, or should in any case be, that we together ensure that working life does not pose a danger of injury or, at worst, death. In a long term perspective, we in Sweden have managed to reduce the number of fatal accidents at work. In recent years, however, there seems to have been a trend break, and that is something that the government and parliament must take very seriously. It cannot be acceptable for people to die as a result of their work. We in the Left Party believe that this development has taken far too little place on the political agenda. The government but also the other political parties have a responsibility to tell you how you view death at work and what you would like to do to counteract it. That is why the Left Party has requested today's debate.
i-085277fe42a2786a-3	Madam President, I would like When Edvin Nordmark stamped into the ironworks in Luleå on an early Thursday morning on 3 February 1949 it was like a normal day at work. But only after an hour's work did everything change. A five ton heavy, frozen ore block rolled over Edvin. Death was immediate. Edvin, my husband's grandfather, my father-in-law's father, was only 40 years old when he died. He left his wife and four children of whom the oldest, my father-in-law, was only seven years old. A death of this kind can affect a family, a workplace, a rural area for generations to come. It is a tragedy of the most difficult degree, and therefore society must do everything in its power to prevent fatal accidents. Nothing but a zero vision can apply to accidents at work. Since Edvin died in the late 1940s, the number of deaths in working life has decreased from about 500 deaths in the past few years to around 50 per year. Sweden is currently among the countries with the lowest percentage of fatal accidents in working life. This is a positive development that has been made possible by a clear and ambitious health and safety policy with clear demands on the employer to prioritise the work environment. We have supervision from both responsible authorities and trade unions. There are safety representatives, and training has given both employees and employers better knowledge about risks and how to prevent them. Last but not least, of course, it is a question of strong collaboration between the various actors in society. In recent years, however, we have seen signs of a negative trend with an increase in the number of fatal accidents. Last year 58 people were killed at work. So far this year, 40 people have died. More than one a week dies at work in Sweden today. The government takes the increase in the number of deaths at work very seriously. It is totally unacceptable for people to die at work. Ultimately, it is always the employer who is responsible for the work environment in the workplace, but the state also has a very important role in this work to prioritise efforts that promote a good work environment policy. During the previous year, the government has therefore invested a lot of resources and increased resources for labour market policy by more than SEK 100 million annually. This has meant that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has been able to employ more than 100 new occupational health and safety inspectors. In this year's budget, we are making another targeted effort to hire more inspectors. In the Government's strategy for health and safety at work 2016 – 2020, the zero vision against fatal accidents is one of the three top priorities. Measures have been taken by the Swedish Work Environment Authority in the work environment strategy, including when it comes to hiring more inspectors. It is also a question of strengthening the supervision of companies that breach the OSH acquis in order to gain competitive advantages, reporting of incidents where foreign workers have been killed or seriously injured and accident prevention measures for road and road workers. In addition to this, the government has also taken some other initiatives, including an initiative where six ministers together take a major responsibility for the conversation with the various sectors where the speeches are highest. I am no stranger to further action, and I welcome this debate.
i-085277fe42a2786a-12	President. - Thank you very much. Today we are meeting for a debate on a very important and urgent subject, namely fatal accidents at our workplaces – an issue that I have debated many times with government representatives. The zero vision that the government has previously set up around fatal accidents has failed. Last year 58 people were killed because of workplace accidents. Of course, one death is one too many. In four years, 170 people have been killed. So there were 170 people who went to work in the morning but never came home again. During the first month of the year, January, nine people had already died. We saw the highest number of fatal accidents in ten years this month. Most accidents occur in construction, transport, soil and forest. So it is the fourth year in a row that the number of deaths is so high. The government has made efforts, but these efforts have obviously not been effective. Progress is going the wrong way. The very negative accident statistics must now really be broken. Supervision, information, knowledge acquisition, education and, not least, better interaction between authorities are things that need to be improved. The most important part of ensuring a good working environment is a well-functioning preventive work environment work at the workplace. The Swedish Work Environment Authority, employees, employers and the state have a joint responsibility in this work. Many employers want to do the right thing, but they don't know how. Simplifying the regulatory framework is an important part of making it easier for businesses, especially smaller companies. It must simply be easy to do the right thing. Guidance is therefore an extremely central and important part of the work. Let me now mention a few examples of what has emerged from the debate on fatal accidents at our workplace. Svenska Dagbladet has stated in a review that cooperation between authorities does not work painlessly, which is alarming. The Ombudsman for Justice has been critical of a fatal accident at LKAB in Norrbotten, which after four years was still not fully investigated. The police authority has indicated in a report that the handling of occupational health and safety offences is inadequate. It is of great importance that there is a holistic approach in which many different parties work together. That is what these statements show. Not least, resources are also needed for police and prosecutors. I am clearly aware that employers have a very large part to play in this, as well as safety representatives and trade unions. But if it does not work, as it obviously does not today, the government, and not least the Minister for Labour, must shoulder their responsibilities. We are talking about 170 people who have been killed in our workplaces.
i-085277fe42a2786a-24	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Left Party, which has raised the question, because it is very important, but also because it concerns me personally. Work environment issues are one of the reasons why I chose to engage politically. Madam President, I would like The reason we are standing here today is that only this year has at least 40 people lost their lives at work, which is totally unacceptable and shows that something is not right in the Swedish labour market. This is an understatement to all of us in this House and shows that we need to take a major interest in the whole policy on health and safety at work. The government's new strategy has obviously not had the desired effect despite very good intentions. Construction and transport are two areas that stand out. I am not surprised, since I myself have been working in the construction industry for 26 years and on more than one occasion had experienced that colleagues lost their lives for reasons that could have been avoided. I have felt the stress of not being able to get along and take a chance, putting myself and others at risk. Unfortunately, this is being seen every day. As long as nothing happens, nothing is done, but it is when the shortcuts become everyday that the accident is usually there. I have been involved in reducing safety rounds because the construction time is under pressure. I could stand here and prefer a lot of examples of what everyday life looks like on Swedish construction sites in particular. Madam President, I would like It would have been easy to stand here and point fingers at individual parties and be accusing, but I am not going to do that. This is a subject where we all want to achieve the same goal but where the solutions may look a little different. It is about increased resources for the Swedish Work Environment Authority. It is about creating opportunities for more employees to become safety representatives and streamline their assignments so that there is a full focus on work environment work. It is about research and development of work on health and safety related problems. However, Madam President, it is also a question of tightening up the requirements and introducing regulated labour immigration, as many of those who are currently affected by workplace accidents in Sweden are seconded workers who are often exploited cynically and have major gaps in knowledge of Swedish health and safety legislation. We need to see tougher penalties and clearer legislation. We need to see extended limitation periods for occupational health and safety offences. The list can be made long. Here it is time we let go of old political blind spots and look at the big picture and the problems we are facing today. According to all forecasts, we have worse times to wait. There's a recession coming up. Then we know that prices are under pressure and that the pressure and stress are increasing, and then the number of accidents will increase. We really have a lot to deal with together.
i-085277fe42a2786a-33	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Left Party for taking the initiative in this debate. It is an important question but with few simple answers. I thought for a long time about what I could say in order to try to alleviate the pain and despair felt by families of the victims in working life, in order to give them hope and show by force of action that their loved ones did not die in vain. I want to be able to give clear answers to how we stop these fatal accidents, which nobody wants to see in a modern working life. For let us be honest: there is probably no one, either in this House or anywhere in our society, who does not want people to be able to come home from their jobs alive. So I started reading, and reading, and reading some more, hoping to find the truth. I have listened to most of the speeches on the subject from this speaker's seat from previous years in the hope of finding the golden key. I thought to myself that it does not matter from which party the proposal comes; if it stops this misery, I will sign it – point! But quickly I realized that there is not a golden key– not even for the left-wing parties, as their habit faithful highlights the companies as the root of all evil, no matter the subject. I was looking for the Social Democrats' solution to the issue: a work environment strategy with a zero vision, and, when this clearly did not work, an examination of the performance of Statskontoret, an analysis mission to the Swedish Work Environment Authority and a joint play by six ministers who promised dearly and sacredly that they would fight the fatal accidents. Madam President, I would like There's no quick fix. That's the only conclusion one can draw from all the detective work in the last few weeks. Had there been such a thing, far smarter people than I had managed to crack the code a long time ago. That does not mean, however, that we should surrender and believe that this solves itself. For certain, technological developments, new ways of working, and more have contributed to the reduction of fatal accidents in recent decades. But it obviously needs to be done more to reach the zero vision. Work environment issues concern us all – as employees, as employers, as citizens of society and as elected representatives, even if the knowledge and knowledge of the regulatory framework must of course reach out wider.
i-085277fe42a2786a-42	Madam President, I would like A worker cuts the grass on a golf course, ends up in a pond and gets the lawn mower over him. A young construction worker falls from a roof in central Stockholm. At a plant in Gothenburg, a pole falls over a worker. These are some examples of death in recent months alone. Even in the short time that has passed since our request for topical debate was approved, people have had to put their lives to death when they have only gone to work on a normal day, most recently because a switchboard was raging over a worker in Vallentuna. In fact, I think it is difficult for some in the corridors of politics and bureaucracy to understand in depth that there are jobs in Sweden where every day there is a risk of not returning in one piece and that this is something that affects working people and their loved ones. The Left Party has repeatedly presented political proposals in this area. And we make it fully aware that there is no miraculous single measure that can solve all the problems without much work being done in many areas. A number of initiatives have been put forward in our alternative proposal for a state budget. The Swedish Work Environment Authority, which has been mentioned, today needs resources to ensure that the number of inspectors does not have to be reduced but, on the contrary, more. We also want to provide resources for the extremely important work carried out by safety representatives. This involves both local and regional safety representatives' opportunities for further training, for example. There would be a total of 120 million next year and 170 million in the future. That is a priority that we make in our budget motion. But we also know that it's not just money it depends on. Here are some further concrete proposals on our part: Set up a government crisis commission! There would need to be recognition of the importance of the issue and a broader grasp of these events and developments. Strengthen the judicial work with occupational health and safety crimes! That is where government control is needed. I myself was recently contacted by a mother who, a number of years ago, lost his child while at work. Unfortunately, her history is similar to that of many others, that is, the experience that the priorities of the judiciary when it comes to such events leave much to be desired. We see an urgent need for more police and investigators but also prosecutors to specialise in occupational safety and health crimes so that they can get a good investigation and solution. Expand the access rights of regional safety representatives! Today, there are companies that sign a collective agreement but where for various reasons there are no members of the trade union organisation that bears the agreement. There must then be access rights for regional safety representatives – it is often also there that needs are greatest. Our list of concrete proposals is much longer. We have presented them in different contexts, and time is short now. What I hope is that the government will take on board some of the proposals and ensure that this work is stepped up, because there is a real need for that.
i-085277fe42a2786a-52	Madam President, I would like Preventing fatal accidents at work must be a high priority regardless of government. The fact that a single person dies because of his work is unacceptable. The employer is responsible for ensuring that the operations are run in such a way that ill health and accidents are prevented and that a satisfactory working environment is achieved. The task of the Swedish Work Environment Authority is to check that the employer meets the requirements of the Swedish Work Environment Act. The Red Green Government launched a strategy on health and safety at work for 2016 – 2020, where it had a zero vision for work-related fatal accidents. The government increased the funding for the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which employed around fifty new inspectors – there are a few different tasks, but I have read in different budgets that there are about fifty. Nevertheless, the statistics show that the number of work-related deaths has increased. For the last four years, the curve has turned upwards. In 2016, 2017 and 2018, 37, 44 and 50 persons died. If you also count conscripts and others who have died, there are almost 10 more people. So there is a sharp increase, and the strategy clearly has not worked. In March, the government published a press release stating that six ministers joined forces for the zero vision. You wouldn't have any more fatal accidents in the world of work. The negative trend would be reversed, but what it would mean in concrete terms was not reflected in the press release. The question is what the government does concretely. Obviously, the government needs to find new ways of working and not, as until now, believe that more resources for the Swedish Work Environment Authority will solve the problem. We know that all employers should have a plan for systematic work environment management. The employer must have clear instructions regarding safety. Employees also have an obligation to comply with safety regulations. But usually lack of leadership, individuals who don't follow rules, poor safety culture, lack of introduction at new positions and stress, and more things that we need to identify. We need to increase the motivation of both employers and employees to make workplaces safer. Here they have a special responsibility for posted workers who may not know the language and need instruction in their own language. The inspections carried out by the Swedish Work Environment Authority reach only a fraction of all workplaces. The Regional Safety Officers complement the Swedish Work Environment Authority, but new ways of working are needed. We have had a number of suggestions about health and safety declarations and other things that allow us to move forward in this work.
i-085277fe42a2786a-60	Madam President, I would like I would first like to turn to the Left Party and thank you for initiating this debate! We may all have different views here about which reforms need to be implemented, but we can all agree that no one will die in a workplace in Sweden. There are many who have pointed out the problem picture, and I am also going to join them. In 2018, 58 people at Swedish workplaces never came home. Ninety-four percent of them were men. Had the figures been reversed, we would have talked about a gender equality problem. We're not doing that today, and I think we should think about that. As a woman in an academic profession, I feel an extra responsibility to these figures – an extra responsibility to understand the industries that are quite far from me and what I do and to understand why people are killed right there. Madam President, I would like I would like to use my first speech to describe one of the proposals made by the Liberals to increase safety at work. Like many others in here, we see that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has a key role to play. We want to encourage and make it easier for employees to report irregularities to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Half of those who managed to work either in construction or transport, but there are major differences in how to report to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. 108 tips were received from employees in the transport industry between January and August 2019. Many more notifications were reported in the construction sector. In the Swedish National Audit Office's review from 2016, A good work environment for everyone, it emerges that tips and notifications could be used to a much greater extent to detect workplaces with a poor working environment. Tips have the advantage of dealing with current problems, which is why it is often difficult to act on them. The liberals also believe that the work and routines of the Swedish Work Environment Authority need to be changed in order for the Agency to focus its efforts more closely on workplaces that, according to statistics and research, are over-represented in workplace accidents and work environment crimes. That is precisely why the statistics need to be improved at the agency. It is not a proposal that should come into place but a number of proposals so that no more will have to go to work and then never come home.
i-085277fe42a2786a-68	Madam President, I would like Last year 58 people were killed in their workplaces. There's more than the last few years. We see an increasing trend. This year, the figure, so far, is 40 people. The 40th case occurred as late as Tuesday when a man was hit by a switchboard that fell. Detailed statistics on fatal accidents at work are available on the Swedish Work Environment Authority's website. The most vulnerable sectors are the construction sector, transport and agricultural industries. The transport sector is particularly worth mentioning because there are more fatalities in terms of the number of employees. More than 90 percent of those who die are men. The biggest increase is among young men. The statistics give us knowledge. We see trends and tendencies. But the statistics are cold and hard. Behind every number is a person who went to work and never came home. And every case of death is one too many. Therefore, during the last parliamentary term, the government raised the level of ambition in health and safety policy. Among other things, a zero vision against fatal accidents was introduced, and a special grip was taken on the psychosocial working environment. Money was added, and the resources for the Swedish Work Environment Authority increased by over SEK 100 million. It was enough for about 150 new occupational safety and health inspectors to carry out more inspections at the workplace to remove the dangerous environments and elements. Since the new government took office in January this year, further steps have been taken within the adopted strategy. But, Madam President, the work obviously needs to continue. It is good, I think, that Parliament now has the opportunity to discuss this important issue. I would therefore like to conclude my first speech and the first round here in the debate by thanking the Left Party for the initiative for this current debate.
i-085277fe42a2786a-74	Madam President, I would like Madam President, I would like No one should have to die on their job. We fully agree on this in this House. In my previous speech, I presented a number of initiatives and measures taken by the government to reduce the number of fatal accidents at work. At the beginning of the autumn, we also decided to raise the corporate fine, from today's SEK 10 million to SEK 500 million. This means a sharp increase in the penalties imposed on large companies guilty of particularly reprehensible crime, such as the loss of control leading to serious accidents at work or death. We also need to ensure that all the 100 000 safety representatives around our workplaces are well placed to carry out their important task. It's absolutely crucial. I would also like to see greater access rights for regional safety representatives. I can refer to large and important trade unions in the Swedish labour market. IF Metall's Chairman Marie Nilsson calls for this, and Building Chairman Johan Lindholm believes that these are important measures. The government initiative taken by six ministers is not about sitting and having coffee, which it can almost sound like listening to the debate. It is about taking responsibility for a good dialogue with those sectors where fatal accidents are most frequent. What has emerged from these kinds of meetings is that there is no quick fix, as Alireza Akhondi said. What we need to work with and which the industries also point to is the safety culture and how important it is. In two weeks' time, for example, the construction industry's security park will be inaugurated outside Sigtuna. It is an important effort from the industry to educate and work with the common safety culture. It is a long-term, important work that we need together to achieve results around. I can inform you that the government will continue to have a very ambitious health and safety policy. I also welcome and listen to all the concrete and good proposals contained in this House for how we can further strengthen measures to combat fatal accidents at work.
i-085277fe42a2786a-80	Madam President, I would like I quote Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson in connection with the opening of the Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work, Mynak: That was not the case. Today there are major health and safety problems at the Agency. The Minister continues to state that the Ministry of Labour is following the work closely and that she takes the situation of the Agency seriously. So do I. Taxpayers' money is therefore currently spent on consultants who are going to train Director General and staff, i.e. health and safety experts, in the working environment. Is this understood correctly? Then I really want to know how the work on that education goes. It also deserves to be heard by taxpayers. And how much is it? This really damages confidence in the government's work environment.
i-085277fe42a2786a-82	Madam President, I would like We've had an interpellation debate on Mynak. It is an authority that is very important, and we are building up that activity now. It will be a little hollow when the representatives of the Moderates step into the discussion on this issue. What you did, Mrs Quicklund, when you were in government was to significantly reduce resources for labour market policy. You also voted against our strategy on health and safety at work. Why did you do it, if it's so important to you?
i-085277fe42a2786a-85	Madam President, I would like How can the government invest SEK 40 million annually in an authority that obviously does not take its task seriously? It is an authority that cannot deliver, where employees resign because of the poor working environment and whose partners are critical and finish their assignments? That is taxpayers' money we are talking about. We are talking about an expert authority on health and safety at work. Where's the government's pain limit? Is there a time limit?
i-085277fe42a2786a-87	Madam President, I would like As I said, we are building an important authority, the Agency for Safety and Health at Work. It gets a little hollow when the Moderates focus on this issue while cutting resources for health and safety policy and voting against the OSH strategy. I have not understood what the Moderates think is the problem in the strategy on health and safety at work. I would rather like constructive proposals on how to reduce the number of fatal accidents.
i-085277fe42a2786a-90	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Employment, for participating in the debate! It's a good thing you want to raise the corporate fine pretty bad. But then it also requires that there is an perpetrator to fine. My question to the Minister for Labour is: why did you vote against increased limitation periods for occupational health and safety offences? This is an issue that LO is also pushing.
i-085277fe42a2786a-92	Madam President, I would like I don't know.
i-085277fe42a2786a-93	Madam President, I would like If she cannot answer the first question, my supplementary question falls. That's why I'm ironing it.
i-085277fe42a2786a-94	Madam President, I would like This is my first general debate. I'm new to the post office. I'd be happy to find out and get back to you with answers.
i-085277fe42a2786a-95	Madam President, I would like During the previous term of office, the Left Party and the Government agreed to give properly with more resources to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, to initiate several assignments that have now given us important, new knowledge of the situation, to establish an Agency for Safety and Health at Work, and more. I will not say that the initiatives in this area have ended after the elections. We have heard here that good things are being done and have been done. But I think the pace and commitment have changed. For example, it is worrying that the Swedish Work Environment Authority signals that they need to reduce the number of inspectors rather than increase. I want to know if the government is prepared to provide more resources to the Swedish Work Environment Agency or to the safety representative's further training. Is there any time to find out about the legislative proposal on the extension of access rights for regional safety representatives? Or is it that these issues do not play very well with the spirit of the 73-point programme, which governs the work of the government?
i-085277fe42a2786a-98	Madam President, I would like In the budget for next year, we will increase the resources for the Swedish Work Environment Authority. I myself have been involved in inspections together with the Swedish Work Environment Authority's officials and have seen how important the business is. The number of inspections has also increased this year, which is important. Of course it leads to results. With regard to a timetable for the extension of access rights for regional safety representatives, I would ask you to come back.
i-085277fe42a2786a-100	Madam President, I would like I look forward to the Minister returning to the Regional Safety Officers. That is an important issue. It has been said before that things are going to happen there, but it has not happened. With regard to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, I would like to emphasise that the reason why more inspections have been made is that previous budgets have given more resources to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. The Swedish Work Environment Authority is now signalling that the budget line in the 2020 budget will not be sufficient to maintain the number of inspections. That is what my question was about.
i-085277fe42a2786a-102	Madam President, I would like As I said, we are increasing the resources for the Swedish Work Environment Authority. These inspections are crucial. This work, together with the important role of safety representatives in the workplace, regional safety representatives and the possibility of increased access rights, are important tools for achieving results in reducing both the number of workplace accidents and deaths.
i-085277fe42a2786a-103	Madam President, I would like When it comes to resources for the Swedish Work Environment Agency, we can see that fatal accidents have not been reduced when we have added more resources. We see this with the government we now have. During the Alliance's time, fatal accidents decreased, and we did a lot at that time. I want to ask you a question. The Christian Democrats have had a proposal on health and safety declarations. Whether you add another 100 million or not, we cannot be out in all the workplaces. However, a declaration that employers are allowed to submit that they have rules for introduction, safety regulations in place and so on would be a way of getting everyone to say that they have such things in place. I wonder how the Government views this proposal.
i-085277fe42a2786a-105	Madam President, I would like I'd be happy to get into various suggestions that have come along. I do not know the details of your proposal. But I think I have a more optimistic view that you can make sure to be at all workplaces around Sweden – not all of them because it changes very quickly but on many more. Consider that today we have about 100 000 safety representatives in the LO, TCO and Saco associations. I think it is very important to recruit safety representatives and ensure that they are given good opportunities to carry out their important tasks in the workplace. It is also important to be able to recruit more safety representatives and ensure that, as the government wants, the access rights of regional safety representatives are increased. Today they are just over 1,700 and cover about half a million jobs. It is of course extremely important that there are people out in the workplace who can work concretely on these issues. Those who do best are those who work in the workplace, unions and employers.
i-085277fe42a2786a-107	Madam President, I would like More resources are certainly good in certain situations, such as when you have a specific mission to an authority. However, I do not think that will solve this problem. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has even said itself in the Labour Market Committee that 100 million is almost a drop in the sea so that you can visit all workplaces. Safety representatives and the Swedish Work Environment Authority have an important mission to create regulations and the like and follow them up, but I think more is needed to get to grips with this.
i-085277fe42a2786a-109	Madam President, I would like I think we agree that workplace-related work is very important. We must ensure greater access rights for regional safety representatives. I hope that Mrs Pethrus is also with the government on this issue. The fact that you are in the workplace and ensure that there is good safety is extremely important in this area too.
i-085277fe42a2786a-110	Madam President, I would like I choose to respond to some of the statements made by the Minister for Employment in her last speech. Between 2006 and 2013, when the Alliance ruled, the number of deaths per billion hour worked decreased by 56 per cent, according to the Parliamentary Investigation Service, RUT. That was a big drop. The Alliance government introduced a completely new system of sanctions for when deficiencies are discovered. Responsibility became much clearer, and many more than before could be convicted. The Swedish Work Environment Authority was also more effective in working with prevention, supervision and information. The number of inspections per inspector increased considerably, which was positive. With the number of fatalities not reduced, we should be able to agree that the amount of money is not always what makes a difference. A strategy on health and safety at work and a zero vision can not only be a statement, but also a content. This could involve sufficient resources and not least police and prosecutors. Management, control and follow-up are needed, otherwise this will be ineffective. We can also note that there are major shortcomings in the interaction between authorities. For example, the resources for the police are too small. The priority of fatal accidents is not high enough. The processing times are long, and the limitation period is too short. The list is long. Urgent action is now required. The existing ones are not sufficient and the situation is very serious. My question to the Government and the Government is: When will the government come with strong efforts to improve the situation?
i-085277fe42a2786a-115	Madam President, I would like The only thing the Moderates and Saila Quicklund really propose is to simplify regulations. But why did you vote against the zero vision and the health and safety strategy? What was wrong with it? How can we ensure that we target the right efforts if we continue to cut the resources invested in the work environment?
i-085277fe42a2786a-116	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, it is a question of filling in a health and safety strategy or a zero vision with content when you create it. This is not just something to say. This is where the great flaw is today. It is stated that there is no management, control or follow-up. Police resources are too small. You don't see the big picture. Today, the government only looks at the Swedish Work Environment Authority and its grouping, but not at the whole with police and prosecutors. They are directly necessary for us to have better conditions.
i-085277fe42a2786a-118	Madam President, I would like I note that the Moderates are cutting resources for labour market policy. They voted against the health and safety strategy and a zero vision. They also criticise the government very strongly for the various efforts that are being made. At the same time, they have no proposals or efforts of their own to address the problems we face.
i-085277fe42a2786a-119	Madam President, I would like Between 2006 and 2013, when the Alliance ruled, the number of deaths fell by 56 per cent. It was during a time when the Alliance initially did not have the same funds for the Swedish Work Environment Authority. However, the work worked much more effectively with more inspections, better information management, training and so on. Money is not always the answer. It is about management, governance and collaboration between the authorities. This is expressed incredibly clearly from partners.
i-085277fe42a2786a-121	Madam President, I would like During the alliance years mentioned, the government closed down the world-leading Institute of Work and halved the funding for the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Now this trend continues. Maybe it's a little softer. Now they want to close down the new Agency for Safety and Health at Work Science and cut 8 million at the Swedish Work Environment Agency. What do the Moderates really have against research, knowledge and expertise in terms of workers and workers' conditions?
i-085277fe42a2786a-123	Madam President, I would like I'm going to ask you a question right back to the Left Party. How can the Left Party invest SEK 40 million in a dysfunctional authority? The workers there have such a bad working environment that they choose to quit. The collaboration partner Sweden's Occupational Health Service expresses a great criticism of the agency. Why does the Left Party give priority to this initiative?
i-085277fe42a2786a-125	Madam President, I would like This was not an answer, but in its own way was very telling. I note that the Moderates may want to close down all authorities where possible health and safety problems occur in the future. It will be interesting to follow up on this position. However, this does not explain why all the time and all the way has been against all the authorities and all the efforts on workers, as well as knowledge and research on them. That also does not explain why you want to cut 8 million at the Swedish Work Environment Authority.
i-085277fe42a2786a-127	Madam President, I would like It is not that we are removing these resources, even if we were to close down the authority. The Authority is not the solution. These are effective reforms that have an impact on the work environment. The resources are transferred to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which can do this. I still ask the question back: how can the Left Party invest 40 million in a business that today does not deliver at all? It's about priorities. It is about having an effect on the money that we give and which is intended to prevent deaths in our workplaces.
i-085277fe42a2786a-129	Madam President, I would like I had prepared my second speech, but after listening to the debate, I demolished the script. I've heard a lot of wise suggestions. As I said in my first speech, I think this is such an important issue that I will not point the finger at any individual party in this debate at all. We have a lot in common, although we have different approaches to these issues. In fact, I can support Ali Esbati's and the Left's proposals – perhaps we should set up a Commission to really get to the bottom of this. I have nothing more to add to the debate at the moment. I think there have been many sensible proposals.
i-085277fe42a2786a-131	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to return to a question that Magnus Persson asked earlier but to which I could not answer. I do not want to rule out initiatives in this area with regard to the limitation period, but I do need to talk to my colleague, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, about this. Then I would like to ask the representatives of the Swedish Democrats a question. You want to remove the Regional Safety Officers and abolish the union appointed Safety Officers at our workplaces. How would this help to reduce the number of fatal accidents at work?
i-085277fe42a2786a-133	Madam President, I would like I have a fairly simple answer to that question. We do not want to remove any safety representatives at all. We want the regional safety representatives to be under the Swedish Work Environment Agency instead of under the trade unions. This claim that we want to remove safety representatives has now gone quite far. We certainly do not want to do that. Instead, we want to increase the opportunities for more people to become safety representatives at the local level. We also want to make protective work more effective. That's what it's all about. It is not written anywhere that we want to remove any safety representatives at all. It is a pure lie that comes from the Social Democrats.
i-085277fe42a2786a-135	Madam President, I would like What I understand is that the Swedish Democrats want to remove the right of trade unions to appoint safety representatives. Then I wonder what it means for a nurse, a construction worker or a metal worker who today has a safety representative appointed according to the Swedish model and who is a representative of him or her. How would this contribute to a better working environment or to reducing the number of fatal accidents at work?
i-085277fe42a2786a-136	Madam President, I would like I now hear once again that the Minister for Labour is misinformed by the Socialist lie factory. We want to remove the trade union right of precedence. Does the workplace want the union to appoint the safety representative – fine! If you want to appoint your local safety representative yourself at the workplace, you should have the right to do so; the union should not have preferential rights. That is our proposal. Everything else is just on the spot.
i-085277fe42a2786a-137	Madam President, I would like Magnus Persson and the Swedish Democrats will not escape by claiming that there is a false factory. It is their proposal on the safety ombudsmen that we are discussing. What the Swedish Democrats have proposed is to abandon the Swedish model in order to appoint a safety representative. The model is based on the fact that it is the workers' organisations that have the best opportunity to do this work, which is so extremely important. Why do you want to pull your legs off that model?
i-085277fe42a2786a-138	Madam President, I would like I understand Ali Esbati's reasons. They're ideological. But unlike him, we want all Swedish employees to have the chance to become safety representatives. We can see in the government's own budget that we have an organisation rate that according to figures from 2018, is 59 percent among ordinary workers. Does Ali Esbati, with his way of looking at the issue, mean that the other 41% should not be allowed to become a safety representative? We believe that all Swedish employees should have the right to work on these important issues. That is the basis of the proposal.
i-085277fe42a2786a-139	Madam President, I would like This is a strange way to describe the fact that the Swedish Democrats carry out commissioned works for the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, which has far-reaching proposals on how to destroy the Swedish system of safety representatives. The successful Swedish model is based on employers and employees having a crucial role through their organisations, because they know best how it works in workplaces when important jobs are to be done in the area of health and safety at work. Everything should not just be employers and authorities. You don't want to do that.
i-085277fe42a2786a-140	Madam President, I would like That is absolutely not the case. Basically, we want to involve all Swedish employees in the work environment. That is not what the Social Democrats and the Left Party want. They want to lock this up and, through trade unions, have power over the Swedish workplaces. This is an ideological issue between me and Ali Esbati. I understand his thinking and reasoning. For us within the Swedish Democrats, it is a matter of involving everyone. That is the basis of this whole proposal. It is not about entrepreneurs having more power or something like that, it is about getting even more people involved in the work. The Left is opposed to this, which I can only regret.
i-085277fe42a2786a-142	Madam President, I would like Work environment issues do not exist without jobs and employers. It is therefore natural that the discussion on how to develop health and safety at work starts with employers. At the same time, however, we can see that there is disappointment among many companies in terms of the understanding of the business environment by politicians and public authorities. This becomes particularly clear when it comes to the Swedish Work Environment Authority and its lack of focus on supporting and informing companies about regulations in the field of health and safety at work. There is an enormous potential for development here. More than four out of ten companies find it quite or very difficult to understand the regulatory framework in this area. Madam President, I would like We basically have a good order, where the Swedish Work Environment Authority inspects and informs and the trade union safety representatives supervise and report. We also have Mynak, the Agency for Safety and Health at Work, whose task is to compile and disseminate the latest research in the field, even if it works a little bit like that right now. Safety requirements are now high. But it is still far from enough – it is quite clear. Madam President, I would like Research shows that it is possible to reduce work-related mortality through preventive measures at the workplace and the application of new knowledge that reduces the incidence of stress and shift work. However, in order to reduce the number of work-related diseases and injuries, it is crucial to have a functioning and systematic local work environment work and a good safety culture that includes everyone in the workplace. Of course, the employer has ultimate responsibility for the working environment, but this does not exclude the responsibility of all those present at the workplace to contribute to a good working environment. This may include following instructions and safety practices regarding the use of protective equipment. We need to reduce risks in each operation. We need to analyse and discuss behaviour and attitudes. The employer has a responsibility to create a culture where it is okay to say not when there is a risk of accident or illness. It is crucial to have an environment where you are afraid of each other and dare to discuss both risks and how to prevent ill health.
i-085277fe42a2786a-148	Madam President, I would like Our social system rests on the principle of equal value for all. However, we all know that in practice this is often excluded. In the labour market, we see it not least when it comes to the risk of breaking down, being torn out, injured or dying. This debate has focused on the sudden deaths at work, but we should remember that in addition, many more people die prematurely as a result of their work. A recent study of three Ume researchers estimates the number of people dying from work-related stress causing stroke and heart disease at 770 a year. It must be understood that the general conditions in different sectors are crucial for people's lives and health in this country and on a scale that is dramatically larger than those discussed in the media and in our political assemblies. Taking these issues seriously is therefore about seeing inequality and insecurity in the labour market as a problem and fighting to change those conditions. From the right you have traditionally not been so busy with those things. We know that. Now we see an S-led government that cooperates with increasingly anti-labour parties. That gives cause for concern. From the Left side we will continue to pursue issues that are fundamental to a safer working life. It is about labour law that needs to be strengthened and not eroded. It is a question of procurement rules, where work environment management is currently damaged when you have multiple contracts. It is about stopping the abuse of subsidised employment. It is about foreign companies being required to report from day one for posted workers. We know it's a vulnerable group. It is about the need for a professional occupational health care system that covers all workers. We are ready for talks and to negotiate these issues if the will and commitment were elsewhere.
i-085277fe42a2786a-154	Madam President, I would like Recently we could see a feature in SVT about Lucas Almvall, 24 years old, who died on his internship. He had not received sufficient instruction and instruction in the work as a truck driver, and he died at work. You understand the despair his mother expresses. This shouldn't happen. A 20-year-old man is squeezed to death at a concrete company in Skåne. A construction worker fell from the eighth floor of a construction site in Solna. That is something we have been able to read about in the media recently. This year's statistics don't look good. The government must now do more to prevent fatal accidents. We Christian Democrats have proposed, as I mentioned here earlier, a form of health and safety declarations to be completed by employers in order to state that they have complied with the most basic legislation on systematic work on the working environment. The government now has a new authority, Mynak, as a national knowledge centre for health and safety at work. It seems to have got off to a very bad start if you read in the media, but maybe it can help with research in the field. Madam President, I would like One thing can still be said. More resources have not solved the issue of reducing the number of fatal accidents at work. The Swedish Work Environment Authority had requested 10 million more than it has received from the government. It shows that the government probably does not believe that more resources always solves the issue. We're going to have a safety representative, we're going to have a work environment, and we're going to try to do what we can. But I think the government needs to find new ways to work. As my moderate colleague said here earlier, the number of accidents during the time of the Alliance decreased. It's something that I think is about leadership and actually caring about all the people who die at work.
i-085277fe42a2786a-160	Madam President, I would like We clearly share the commitment to health and safety at work, although we may have some different suggestions and approaches on how to overcome the problems we face in the labour market. I would like to put the question to Mrs Pethrus: are you prepared to support the Government's proposal to strengthen the access rights of regional safety representatives? It is such an important issue for all the workplaces and people who work in workplaces where the protection organisation is currently inadequate.
i-085277fe42a2786a-162	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the question. We have written in our motion that we think that the Regional Safety Officers really need to be evaluated first to see what function they have and what significance they have. But we have not been completely opposed to this development. We believe they have an important task. But that may not be the solution, unfortunately, to the situation of the fatal accidents.
i-085277fe42a2786a-164	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Today, we have over 1,700 regional safety representatives covering about half a million workplaces. It is very important that there should be an increased right of access. We have now talked in very good tone about trying to accept each other's proposals. It is up to evidence since spring when I put forward the proposal to strengthen the access rights of regional safety representatives. I hope that the Christian Democrats will support that proposal.
i-085277fe42a2786a-165	Madam President, I would like Many have already mentioned the role of safety representatives. Let me also stay with them on the Liberal side. Safety representatives play an important role in Swedish workplaces. They are located in companies with at least five employees and are added by the local trade union organisation. If there is no such local trade union organisation, they are appointed by the workers. Unfortunately, few workers know about this possibility. Much has happened in the Swedish labour market since the law came into place in the 70s. The proportion of union members has decreased. Companies and workplaces are different today. We do not have as many large companies but more small companies with fewer than five employees. Work environment challenges also look different. Mental ill health is much more common today. Madam President, I would like The Liberals therefore want to review the Work Environment Act that governs the task of safety representatives. This means, among other things, that we want the main rule for local safety representatives to no longer be that they should be appointed by the local workers' organisation, but as a rule by the workers. If the safety representatives are members of the union, it is positive. But it is in workplaces without collective agreements and unionists that the need for improved working environment may be greatest. Liberals want to work to strengthen the rights of employees in the most precarious workplaces, which is why we also need to step up efforts for employees in companies without collective agreements.
i-085277fe42a2786a-170	Madam President, I would like It was good for the level of knowledge in the general debate to note that the Liberals have the same proposal as the Swedish Democrats regarding the safety ombudsmen and that very little attention has been paid to it. I think that's a great pity on the subject. The safety representatives are very important, and the Swedish model because it is very important. Maria Nilsson mentioned that the regional safety ombudsmen should play an important role. But you also want to replace them with what you call a new and more effectively designed function. What is it?
i-H2QN1FgWMiqNi4uPVgMDzK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ali Esbati, for the question. I would like to start by saying that I am totally uninterested in whether the Swedish Democrats have the same proposals or whether we have the same proposals as the Swedish Democrats. We present our proposals separately as the Liberals. I turn to the question of regional safety representatives. I think I answered that question. We want the safety representatives no longer to be appointed by local workers' organisations as a general rule, but by the workers. If the safety representative is a member of the union, it is positive.
i-085277fe42a2786a-173	Madam President, I would like I just meant that it is the Swedish democrats' version of the proposal that has received the most attention. I believe that both the proposals of the Swedish Democrats and the Liberals originally come from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. The problem is that if you make this change in the safety representative scheme, you lose contact with the employees' organisations that support the Swedish model of safety representative. That would be very unfortunate, because we have a very well-functioning model in this area.
i-085277fe42a2786a-175	Madam President, I would like Liberals are keen to have safety representatives in all workplaces. Today we see that the workplaces where there is no trade union organisation have fewer safety representatives. Through our proposal, we want to ensure that workplaces without collective agreements also have safety representatives and thus ensure that all workplaces have a safe and good environment.
i-085277fe42a2786a-176	Madam President, I would like We have now debated an extremely important and urgent issue for just over an hour. Fatal accidents at work need to be reduced. In this debate, we have talked above all about the physical working environment. There are physical injuries, accidents, which have been the focus. At the end of the debate, I would also like to mention the importance of the psychosocial working environment, because I think it belongs to the debate. In 2018, 1,268 persons died of suicide in Sweden. Again, it is men who dominate the statistics. Two thirds of those who died in suicide last year were men. But in terms of mental illness, it is the women who dominate. However, mental illness is increasing in all population groups: young and old, women as men and so on. There is great reason to assume that suicide cases may be work-related. We know that higher demands in working life lead to a sharp decline in mental health and increased sick leave. Mental illness is the most common reason for sick leave from work. This applies now to both women and men, and students are a particularly vulnerable group. These are costs that society, the community, takes. There are costs in money for the individual and for the public finances. But in the first place, it is the cost of a loss of quality of life for those affected. And at worst – in death. In many cases, it is probably work-related deaths. Stress, as well as violations, threats and violence, are things that occur in the workplace. There is an attentive case from Krokom, where a social security secretary killed himself after being the victim of violations by his supervisor. It happened in 2010 but got a long follow-up in the legal process. Since then, the Government has taken a number of measures and ensured that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has adopted new regulations, which became applicable in 2016. They are a tool for preventing this and for clarifying responsibilities. But this work too, Madam President, needs to continue to develop.
i-085277fe42a2786a-183	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Left Party, which initiated this important debate! The zero vision of fatal accidents stands. Nothing but a zero vision can apply to death at work. This may sound difficult to achieve, but it is an important objective for the government, the individual employer and society at large. I would like to welcome all the good suggestions. The government is, of course, prepared to try and discuss all the things that can lead us to reduce the number of deaths in working life. Thank you for a good debate! And eventually: Have a really nice weekend, everyone!
