i-39b7e06c9c472418-6	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that there are no environmental partners in this House when we are discussing the AP funds. That is very regrettable. But who knows? Maybe they've taken a break. On 1 January this year, new rules for the general pension funds, the AP funds, came into force. The funds are now to be managed in an exemplary way through responsible investment and ownership. The new objective was motivated by the expectation that the AP funds should actively work to integrate ESG issues, i.e. environment, social and governance, in the management of the funds. For example, the term ‘environment' refers to the impact of companies on the environment and climate, ‘social responsibility' means social responsibility, such as human rights and workers' rights, and ‘governance' refers to issues related to the governance of a company, such as shareholders' rights. The Left Party already questioned last year whether the new rules will really make such a difference. At the same time as the new objective was introduced, the government stated that ESG issues should be promoted without compromising the overall objective of investment activities. Unfortunately, we can now conclude that our criticism was justified. Greenpeace review, presented the other day, shows that AP funds continue to invest billions in several of the largest fossil companies in the world. These are fossil giants whose activities pose the greatest threat to achieving global environmental objectives. In fact, AP funds invest in 64 of the 100 largest oil and gas companies in the world. New investments in coal companies have even been made since the end of the year, i.e. after the introduction of the new rules. This happens at a time when greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are at a record level. Madam President, I would like In what way does it promote the climate to invest billions of Swedish pension money in fossil giant activities? How is it socially responsible to invest Swedish pension money in Chinese-owned Petrochina or Russian-owned Gazprom? We are talking here not only about major emissions, but also about countries that systematically violate human rights on a point-by-point basis. We in the Left Party think that it is completely unreasonable to invest the Swedish people's pension money in this way and believe that there must be much clearer demands on the AP funds regarding both the environment and ethics. Environmental and ethical considerations must be equated with the objective of high returns. We do not think that the AP funds should make any new investments in coal, oil or fossil gas. It is high time to move the money and phase out existing investments. The government often beats its chest when it comes to the environment and human rights in international contexts, and it often expects ordinary citizens to change their consumption. But when it comes to the billion-dollar investment of the AP funds, you don't do your part. It's double standards without its like. This double standard has consequences. Just ask the natives cofan in the Amazon in northeastern Ecuador! There the water has been poisoned and the soil contaminated after the fossil giant Chevron, a company in which the AP funds invested billions, has dumped crude oil and toxic residues in the jungle. Madam President, I would like It is time for Sweden to assume its responsibilities and divide the AP funds, and it is time for the government to end its double standards. I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-17	Madam President, I would like Our debate here today is on the Finance Committee's report 6, the activities of the AP funds even. 2018. In view of the committed intervention by Andreas Lennkvist Manriquez of the Left Party just now, it may be worth emphasising that the debate is about the activities until 2018. The corresponding debate is held every parliamentary year and is based on the government's letter about the activities of the AP funds during the past year. AP funds have a central and important role to play in the Swedish pension system in the part that we know as income pension. In the corresponding debate on the activities of the AP Funds in 2017, which we held in this House on 6 February this year, I said, among other things, that a stable and sustainable pension system is an important basis for society. A pension system is also an expression of a social and generation contract. It's about trust and trust. In that debate there were also several feedbacks to a debate we had had a few months earlier on new investment rules for AP funds as of 1 January 2019. Madam President, I would like What I said then deserves to be repeated and, not least, it is still very much true and still is. What has happened to the AP funds during 2018? At a quick and a bit sloppy look at the result, you might say: That's it. Sometimes, and not least here, it is important to try to get a grip on what greatness it is all about. It's not simply, I have to admit. The assets managed by the funds were SEK 1,383 billion at the end of 2018. This is in itself a decrease of 29 billion compared to a year earlier, but it is still a lot of money and important money for Sweden's pensioners, both present and future. First – Fourth AP Fund's profit for the management 2018 resulted in a negative result of SEK 2 billion after expenses, or in a different way a return of minus 0.2 percent. However, the result should be seen in the light of developments in the stock market in the first place in 2018. Seen in comparison with the corresponding international actors, pension funds with similar assignments and conditions, the Swedish AP funds make a fully approved result. The Sixth AP Fund reports a significantly higher return, but it has different conditions and rules of play. With regard to the Seventh AP Fund, which is the state option within the premium pension scheme, it can be noted that those who have chosen this option, either passively or actively, have made a good choice. The seventh AP Fund's performance clearly exceeds the premium pension index. Madam President, I would like In a debate on the AP funds and their results, it is not unimportant to recall what their mission is: to manage the funds so that they are of the greatest benefit to the income pension system. The administration shall take its starting point in the commitment of the pension scheme. The assignment is regulated by law and together with the investment rules, constitutes the framework for the work of the AP funds. The investment rules may, among other things, indicate that the funds are required to take environmental and ethical considerations into account in investment operations, without compromising the overall objective of high returns. The Funds shall not pursue economic or economic policy objectives. We are therefore discussing the government's letter on the activities of the AP Funds for 2018 and nothing else. Madam President, I would like We have also, as I mentioned earlier, decided on new investment rules from 2019. Thus, what these new rules lead to and have an impact, we have reason to come back to and debate in about one year's time when we will evaluate the results of the 2019 activities. However, the AP Funds' preparations for the new investment rules have already had an impact in 2018, as the government also states in its letter. Even more is going on. In the Government Office they are now working on another bill dealing with AP Funds' investment rules. We will have the opportunity to debate this in Parliament shortly. Madam President, I would like Is everything all right with our AP funds? On the whole, yes, but with an important one. There are things to keep an eye on. The rules of placement are obvious. However, I am thinking mainly of the costs of the funds and the development of the costs. The negative development of costs in the period 2012 – 2015 is broken. That's good. But there is reason to continue to examine and to have a little bit of a thumb in the eyes of the funds and their wires. Cost-effective management is important, both for the financial outcome and for citizens' confidence in and trust in the AP funds. The total administrative costs amount to 0.123 % of the capital managed. This is a decrease compared to 2017. The trend is positive, and that's good. However, the differences between the various funds are still far too wide. This needs to be reviewed and followed up by both the government and us here from the Riksdag. With that, Madam President, I would like to endorse the proposal in the committee's report and reject the reservation.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-28	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by righting the previous speaker, Mrs Ingemar Nilsson, who says that this report deals only with the activities of the AP funds in 2018. We also have in the report a request from one of the motions from the general period of exercise. It has also been discussed earlier in the debate. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal as a whole. We in this House have quite recently adopted a new regulatory framework for the AP funds, which means greater environmental considerations and greater consideration for sustainability and future generations. All parties belonging to the Pensions Group support this. This enables us to maintain trust and security in the face of important decisions on the pension system – a wise order. It is also good that the government should return to Parliament with a letter of this kind. This allows us to closely monitor developments in the AP funds. They are very important for the pension system and for security and trust. According to the new target that we decided on and that came into force on 1 January this year, the funds are to manage pension funds in an exemplary way through responsible investment and ownership. The objective shall be achieved without prejudice to the overall objective of a high long-term return. The aim of the new objective is for the Funds to take environmental, social and corporate governance aspects into account in the asset management they conduct. The objective includes the development by the Funds of a common basis of values for management, common guidelines for which assets pension funds should not be invested, and common guidelines on how the results of management under the new objective should be accounted for. The reason why we Moderates think it is important to point out here that we support the committee's proposal in the report is that, if we are to have confidence and confidence in the pension system in the long term, it is based on the fact that we are also delivering pension payments. Here, AP funds have an absolutely crucial role to play by serving as a balance between years of deficit and years of surplus in the pension system. Otherwise, we risk ending up in the situation that some other countries have ended up in, as they have a more politicised system. After all, it is important that AP funds' activities are characterised by returns and not activism. We have the money of the AP funds in order for us to have a secure and stable pension system.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-36	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by stating that a victory is being won today. It is a victory for all who have committed themselves to the right and the possibility of using cash as much as you want. Above all, it is now the case that the state takes over the development and does not leave it to the big banks to decide for themselves on the availability of the use of cash. It is a victory for the association of organizations known as the Cash Rebellion. But, Madam President, it is also important to remember and note that this legislation, which is now coming into being in agreement, has taken too long to arrive at. For my part, I have been following this issue during the five years I have been a Member of Parliament. Already in 2014 there were clear signs of the need for regulation. On several occasions, even before I became a Member of Parliament, the Left Party has highlighted the issue of the need to protect the possibility of using cash. Gradually, more and more parties have joined and supported the demand that has now led to a consensus behind the fact that we are introducing this legislation today. A heavy responsibility for this meekness falls to Minister of Finance, Per Bolund, who for a long time has not wanted to take up the issue. He has referred to various investigations that have in practice been lost. The fact that the government and government investigators did not listen to Parliament's subordinate authority The Riksbank when the issue of EU payment directives was investigated was, in my opinion, the most serious mistake. If they had, we could have made a difference at an early stage. It has also consistently been heard against its own county boards around the country. These have reported for several years on problems in meeting the need for basic payment services around the country. Madam President, I would like I therefore hope that the government will devote this day to self-criticism. We should also note that the exchange of banknotes carried out by the Riksbank, surely with good motives, was used by the banks as a reason for a faster settlement of the cash management chain than we could foresee. The development of cash settlement has gone a long way. When I started working on this issue, it was a rural and archipelago problem. Today, it is an equally serious problem for cities. It's a national problem. It is not often a problem for me, who is quick to use new technology and has access to several different credit cards. But for anyone who wants to use cash as a payment method for various reasons, it has been a major problem. Although today's new legislation is a victory for the work of the Left Party and many others, today we have a reservation. This is due to the strange asymmetry that the government is now creating through the new law. Only half the problem has been addressed, the one about access to cash withdrawals. It is at least as important that it is possible to deposit cash, especially if you are an entrepreneur. This applies, in particular, to small businesses. Many parties often pat on the chest and say that they are the entrepreneur's party, but as far as cash is concerned, no one has so far sided with small companies. As an individual entrepreneur or a private person, you find it difficult to talk about the problems of having to do that and hide money in the mattress, as it poses a great security risk if you have to talk about it. On this basis, the Left Party has three proposals which we believe should be implemented: 中 that the obligation to provide places for daily deposits shall apply to all banks providing payment accounts to undertakings 中 that retail deposit options should be included in the concept of cash services 中 that associations and companies should also be subject to the right to open basic service payment accounts currently available to private individuals. The new legislation also contains restrictions on which banks are subject to the requirement to provide access to cash. We object to that. It simply defines it as just a question of large banks. In its referral, the Riksbank objected to this delimitation. The Riksbank considers that banks are required to offer basic payment services to their customers to be part of a bank's authorisation to operate and something that customers should be able to expect. The Riksbank also emphasises that it should be seen as a reasonable return in relation to the significant benefits that the banking sector enjoys through the state safety nets that exist if a bank encounters financial problems. The Left Party shares this analysis. All banks providing payment accounts with basic services shall also provide a cash withdrawal option. The legislation that we are introducing today contains proposals that strengthen access to cash. That is good, but it is at least as important to strengthen the possibilities of using cash. In their annual report on basic cash services, the County Administrative Board notes that cash use and the commercially maintained cash infrastructure continue to decline. The structural changes under way can soon no longer be offset by ad hoc intervention in the form of government-funded agent solutions. Trade has and accepts a great deal of responsibility for cash management, but the number of traders who have stopped receiving cash as means of payment is increasing. Swedish Consumers and PRO propose to introduce requirements for traders and restaurants to accept cash as a means of payment. However, they point out that such regulation must be done properly. They refer, among other things, to Denmark where certain exceptions have been made for industries that are open late evenings and nights, in order to reduce the risk of robbery. It is important to consider. The Left Party believes that the government should set up an investigation with a view to making proposals requiring traders and restaurants to accept cash as a means of payment. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to support the Left Party's reservation.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-51	Madam President, I would like Today we are finally going to take a very long-awaited decision that makes it possible to maintain a reasonable supply of cash throughout Sweden. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for the motion to be rejected. Sweden is the country in the world where the decline in cash use is fastest, and our country is the only country where the amount of cash in circulation in society has decreased over the last decade. In 2018, the cash volume circulating in Sweden was 1.2 per cent of GDP. It should be put in relation to what it was like in the euro zone. That is 10.7% of GDP. There's a huge difference. There are several factors that have driven this development. However, I would like to point out in particular that, not least, the banks have a very large responsibility. As a result of the decrease in cash use, we have had a development in which the number of ATMs has decreased sharply. The number of bank accounts with cash services has been more than halved between 2011 and 2018. More and more traders stop accepting cash. In a 2018 survey, as many as half of all traders say that they will probably stop accepting cash before 2025. There has, of course, been a great deal of attention and debate, and rightly so. New technologies and the development of a more digitised payment system certainly have their advantages. It is more effective and reduces the risk of robbery and tax evasion. Over time, we are likely to see further progress in this direction. At the same time, we must be extremely well aware that many citizens are being squeezed when cash is no longer self-evident means of payment. In particular, many older people and people with disabilities use cash to a greater extent than the rest of the population. We now want cash as a means of payment to be a right for all citizens, and then we must act. It is therefore reasonable that we should now legislate to ensure reasonable access to cash throughout the country. Increased cash use will also contribute to better crisis preparedness and thereby reduce societal vulnerability. In order for cash to circulate in our society, companies need to be able to deposit their daisies. It is, in fact, a prerequisite for cash to be able to act as a means of payment in society at all. That is why it is essential that we now also legislate on the possibility for companies to be able to deposit their diaphragms at reasonable distances. Madam President, I would like Today, we are taking a position that credit institutions with deposits of at least SEK 70 billion should be required to provide cash services to a reasonable extent throughout Sweden, both for cash withdrawals and for companies' ability to deposit their daily deposits. The draft law covers the six largest credit institutions that are deemed to be large enough to serve the whole country with seats for cash services and which are deemed to have a systemic role in the cash chain throughout the country. The obligation to provide cash services shall ensure that the locations of the service are provided at certain distances and shall be regulated by regulation. There is a point in doing so in regulation rather than in law, for it should be possible to adapt conditions when reality changes. The locations of the cash withdrawal service shall keep reasonable opening hours and the charges for withdrawals shall be reasonable. In addition, the report says that the sites should be user-friendly, especially for people with functional variations. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency is given responsibility for supervision. If the assessment is made that any of the credit institutions concerned do not fulfil their statutory tasks, the matter shall be submitted to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. If, in turn, it makes the assessment that a sanction is justified, the penalty fee shall be determined, in very simple terms, by the amount of public deposits that the institution has. The more deposits, the more responsibility. The penalties proposed are severe on the basis of these circumstances. Madam President, I would like Banks make big profits as they drive the development towards a cash-free society. It is therefore also perfectly reasonable for them to assume their responsibilities for the whole of Sweden to have access to cash and to enable payment services for those groups that are still outside the digital society. For me as a social democrat, it goes without saying that working payment services for the entire population of Sweden is a fundamental right. That is why, Madam President, I would once again like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-63	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by suggesting that Parliament should approve the committee's proposal in the report. It must first be noted that the adaptation to reduced cash management has been very rapid in Sweden. It has had some negative consequences for certain groups in society, such as the elderly and people with disabilities. As highlighted in the bill, it is important to ensure that everyone in society has access to basic payment services at reasonable prices, in particular cash withdrawals and day-to-day deposits. Like the joint Riksbank investigation, I believe that it is necessary to introduce a statutory obligation to provide services that will ensure that the cash supply is secured throughout the country. The obligation for institutions and branches to provide cash services must cover, on the one hand, the provision of services enabling consumers to withdraw cash and, on the other hand, the provision of services enabling businesses to deposit cash from their business activities. This proposal and the report help to ensure that there is a well-functioning cash service to a satisfactory extent in Sweden. The possibility of using cash as a means of payment is reduced for each day that passes, and soon developments may be irreversible. ATMs are taken out of service, bank accounts are closed, and the trade is in the process of cash settlement. This affects and worries too many people, not least the elderly. PRO has carried out a survey in which 900 pensioners went to supermarkets to compare food prices. In addition to price differences, the food price survey showed that it is important for older people to be able to pay with cash when choosing a store. Many people find it difficult and insecure to pay by card. I understand that banks are constantly striking a balance between customer security and the convenience of paying digitally. However, when there is a rush to phase out cash, the security aspect simply stands back. That is why almost every day we read about people who are being cheated on large sums of money by increasingly insolent fraud practices. The focus has been particularly fraud against the elderly, but all people are affected. The banks are the backbone of our payment infrastructure. They must understand and assume their responsibility for cash handling as long as banknotes and coins are valid means of payment that many people prefer to use for various reasons.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-72	Madam President, I would like It is good news that there is broad agreement in this House on a central issue for Sweden, the issue of cash handling. It must be almost unique that we all within these walls agree. The proposal is a result of the work of the Riksbank Committee, which resulted in the committee's submission of its interim report at the end of last summer. That is what the proposal is based on. The Swedish Democrats supported the report as a whole and are therefore also behind the bill as a whole. The Committee's work is due to a sharp deterioration in the availability of cash. It is a trend towards a cashless society that has accelerated, fueled by the fact that the number of bank accounts with cash services has halved over the last eight years. It is a situation that has made everyday life difficult for people, companies and associations in rural areas and has made Sweden more vulnerable. This not least makes it difficult for all the hundreds of thousands of Swedes who are outside the digital society. The issue of cash has therefore been a priority for the Swedish Democrats. The party has a previous country-day decision that the Swedish Democratic Parliamentary Group should work to strengthen the position of cash in society. It is also this premise that I have taken as my starting point in the Committee. For me as a social Conservative, the precautionary principle has always guided my political work. It has been well harmonised with the Committee's view where necessary improvements have been proposed but changes have not been attributed to self-worth. What, then, is the final product that we deliver? The reasoning is as follows: Since the banks have deposits from the Swedish public, it is also reasonable that the Swedish public can withdraw their money from the banks. The banks are now a self-evident part of a market economy and are crucial to the economic cycle. The activities they conduct are global and integrated in nature, but the issue of cash itself is a national matter. I therefore think it is a good thing for the government to stand up to the weakness of the ECB. This is an issue on which the ECB should not interfere or have opinions. It is simply not possible to waive the responsibility to handle cash, especially when it is a legal tender. Therefore, we will impose a legal requirement on the six largest banks to handle cash. In practice, this means that 99 per cent of Sweden's population must have a maximum of 25 kilometres to the nearest contact point, i.e. for withdrawals or day cash handling. It is a reform that will improve the supply of cash in society. It will strengthen rural businesses and associations. It will also simplify the daily lives of pensioners and disabled people in the country. We have thus reached a broad political agreement that will serve Sweden well. The constructive dialogue that has characterised the Committee's work is desirable. I am convinced that in today's polarised political climate, cooperation like this would be beneficial even in more public and official contexts. I would like to thank the members, parties and officials of the Committee for their good cooperation. I'm in favour of the bill.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-81	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. Today, we are taking a step towards securing the availability of cash and cash handling services throughout the country. When what has been put before the Committee first, then the bill and now the report become a reality, the cash management chain and the cash management system will become something better and something more comprehensive than it is today. Then, with the legislation, we will ensure that deterioration does not occur. We are simply taking a political approach to a development that has so far taken place something of its own accord. Cash handling services in our country have deteriorated step by step on purely market terms. It is important for us to keep such an important social function under political influence, and we are doing so now. Developments in Sweden are evident. The use of cash is steadily decreasing. We are the best or the worst in the class – it depends on how you look at it – when it comes to the use of cash. Had we not taken political steps, this would in practice mean the closure of cash handling services in large parts of the country. I can't let that happen. And that must certainly not happen without a conscious policy behind it. Let's make sure there's security. Madam President, I would like I am the first to admit that I would rather have seen self-regulation of this. It has been discussed for many years and has been investigated on several occasions. There are several of us in this House who have been saying for a long time: yes, it is a problem, and it must be resolved. But it is a difficult area of legislation. In this respect, not least the large banks should assume their responsibilities, given the importance they have for the financial system and the existing cash management chain. That responsibility was not taken. On the contrary, black elephants were thrown between them, and no one wanted to take responsibility for the whole. We had to act politically. Let's do that now. And what we do is make demands on, above all, the possibility of withdrawals and day cash handling. Why did these areas happen? These are two vital parts of the cash management chain. There are also two areas where we have good information and statistics that we can evaluate legislation from outside. Many other solutions that have been discussed, both here in the debate and in recent years, are of the kind that require much investigation and further years of process. We don't have time for that. That is why we are now making demands on the very things we can measure, so that we can have sharp legislation at the end of the year. It's important. When we have discussed this in the Riksbank Committee and in the committee, we have been in complete agreement that, although we make the requirements precisely as regards withdrawal and day cash handling facilities, we assume jointly that this means overall better availability of cash handling services. This also applies to smaller companies, to associations, to civil society and so on. We are now following up on this continuously. The development is fast. If it turns out that it does not lead to what we want, a robust and accessible cash management chain throughout Sweden for everyone who needs it, we will have to follow it up. Then we'll have to screw the rules forward. Madam President, I would like What we are deciding on today is, above all, that we should be able to make these demands. Until legislation becomes a reality, that possibility has not existed. Now there will be an opportunity for politics, for parliament and government, to follow up on this very important social responsibility. We also had discussions, Madam President, on which we should make demands. What we have now landed in is that the big banks in Sweden have to take this responsibility together and make it work. It is also around these organisations that the existing system works above all. The question – and it has also been raised here in the debate – is whether to make corresponding demands on traders, on small businesses. Should we demand that they receive cash upon payment? There we landed together – it was only the Left Party that was against – in that we should not do that, simply because we have a small business perspective in this. If you set up a sommarkafé or another type of smaller activity, or for that matter a slightly larger activity, it must be up to the individual to decide in what way you want to receive payments. The responsibility of politics, which we are now taking, is that the system should work and be available throughout the country. But if a rural sommarkafé receives payments only via cards or Swish or if you receive cash, it must be up to the individual. That's how we do that balance. We are taking an important step today. I do not think that this issue is clear; we will have to come back. There is a very rapid development in the transition to digital payments. Now, however, we take a political responsibility and ensure that all changes in the future will take place in turn and while maintaining social security. It is a good day when we make such a decision.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-94	Madam President, I would like There is a kind of loneliness – that you are left to yourself, that society withdraws. Often it is market or profit maximization that pushes back presence. It can be about pharmacies, about availability of medicines and about service in general, but also about the common, as now Arbetsförmedlingen. Often it is perhaps profit maximization in conjunction with the fact that the public does not have available resources. These include closed bank accounts, sealed ATMs and refusals by banks to provide and receive cash. It's part of the mood of our time. Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise that I am in favour of technological development. It has made our country developed and richer. The net and Swish are natural to me and many others, but not to everyone. I want a social development where no one feels evasive or useless. The issue of the banks' handling of cash is certainly one of this. As MPs, we have the opportunity to exercise, write questions to ministers and interpellara. I have done so on a number of occasions when it comes to the issue of cash handling. There is no other question in which I have received such a response during my almost ten years in Parliament. There is an anger and fear in people about this issue, often among the many who may not be able to express themselves easily in the public debate. I think that the Rural Committee with its regional utility perspective and the Defence Committee with the vulnerability aspect, two important state committees, have underlined the importance of the issue. The Government proposal and the Finance Committee's report today are not a total victory, but it is a success. Above all, it is a success for the pensioners' associations that can deposit money when they have taken in for coffee and buns at their meetings, for sports associations that at their arrangements have taken a ten to go into the game and a twenty for the sausages and for the school classes that collect for their trips. Not least, it is also a success for many lonely people, especially the elderly, who feel insecure when handling cards and have turned to the relative or the acquaintance with the appeal: Take out some money so that I can manage the expenses of the week! For them, it's a victory. What the bill ultimately proves is that society must balance the market, otherwise our society becomes cold and lonely. Follow-up by the relevant authorities is now required to monitor whether further steps need to be taken. Madam President, I would like I'd like to show you something beautiful. I now hold up a 20 with Astrid Lindgren's picture. She has been mentioned and quoted in this House. I can't do that today, but I think Astrid Lindgren would have been happy to handle money out at the banks. So am I. I support the proposal in the report.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-101	Madam President, I would like At home in Gothenburg I sometimes pass the old shipyard area on Lindholmen when I'm out running. Then I usually reflect on all the companies that have established themselves there in recent years. Some of the companies, many just a few years old, are world-leading knowledge providers, including the automotive cluster. Others are service companies founded by driven entrepreneurs to make people's life puzzles come together in the new vibrant district. For those who want Sweden to continue to be a rich welfare country, it is obvious that the conditions for growth must be strengthened. However, developments do not look positive. The European Commission's autumn forecast, which came in early November, estimates that Sweden's GDP growth will be around 1% both this year and next year, i.e. a bottom quotation in the EU. These are figures that should worry and be reason to resort to measures to strengthen the conditions for entrepreneurship and to reduce the regulatory burden. Sweden needs more entrepreneurs who invest in their ideas, who dare to fail to try again and who ultimately succeed. This requires a broad range of measures. The conditions for starting, growing and expanding as a company and entrepreneur need to be improved, whether it's a pizzeria around the corner or the next Spotify or Skype that you want to start. We Moderates have long been pushing the issue of changing the minimum permitted share capital of private limited companies from SEK 50 000 to SEK 25 000, Madam President, in order to make it easier for more people to realise business ideas and dare to start companies and at the same time do so in the most appropriate form of association. Reducing the minimum share capital is good for several reasons: Firstly, and perhaps most obviously, it reduces the thresholds for setting up public limited liability companies. Secondly, Sweden has high capital requirements compared to other European countries. Private limited companies or similar forms of company may be formed without capital or with a capital equivalent to EUR 1 in 19 EU Member States. Thirdly, the current rules run the risk of forcing the starter into a different form of company than the one that is actually best suited to the business idea, for the simple reason that there is not enough capital to invest according to what the law requires. In January 2017, a sharp announcement in this House was addressed to the government to draft the necessary legislative proposals to reduce the minimum limit on share capital in private limited liability companies. It is almost three years ago, Madam President. The Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party then reserved themselves against the decision, which may have contributed to the government having waited so long to return to Parliament on the matter. Whatever the reason, it is unfortunate that the issue has been delayed for so long because Sweden cannot afford to lose opportunities to strengthen the conditions for entrepreneurship and growth. Unfortunately, I can see that this is the only proposal with concrete proposals to facilitate entrepreneurship presented in Parliament this autumn, despite the fact that the situation with regulatory problems has worsened in recent years. The administrative costs incurred by companies as a result of regulations have on average increased by SEK 1.2 billion per year since 2013, according to the Swedish Agency for Growth. And according to an opinion poll from Skop from April this year, 37 percent of the country's entrepreneurs feel that the rules have become more complicated just in the past year. Only 3% believe that the rules have become simpler than a year ago – 3%, Madam President! If we listen to representatives of the government parties, whom we will certainly hear later in this debate, they certainly say in words that they also want to reduce the regulatory burden on companies, but in action they fail to act to change the situation. Unfortunately, this reform too risks, paradoxically, because of the government's management, more bureaucratic hassle for many companies. During the preparation of the current proposal, several heavy consultation bodies, such as the Swedish Companies Registration Office and the Swedish Tax Agency, have highlighted the need to also review the regulations regarding compulsory liquidation and personal liability in the event of a capital shortage. Nor is it the first time that the rules on compulsory liquidation in the event of a shortage of capital have been raised. It was lifted when the share capital was reduced from SEK 100 000 to SEK 50 000 in 2010 but was also affected in two SOUs with the titles Abolition of audit requirements for small companies from 2008 and Simplifications in the Swedish Companies Act etc. from 2009. The rules are quite technical, but I will try to explain them briefly, Madam President. According to the Swedish Companies Act, the Board of Directors is required to draw up a so-called control balance sheet when there is reason to assume that the company's equity is less than half of the registered share capital. If the lack of capital cannot be remedied, compulsory liquidation of the company may be brought up to date. And unless, among other things, a balance sheet is drawn up, the members of the Board are jointly and severally liable for any additional debts arising in the company. Setting up a balance sheet is a rather complicated, costly and laborious process that can be forced in the case of a share capital of SEK 25 000 even when SEK 12 500 is spent. It is therefore quite clear to me that these rules can no longer be considered appropriate. The state investigations that have previously described this problem have pointed out, among other things, that both the bankruptcy institution itself and the penalties for crimes against creditors are sufficient to prevent companies from continuing to operate if they fall into insolvency. The government itself also points out in the bill that there is reason to consider the need to review these rules. However, in the years in which the issue of reduced capital requirements was prepared, the government has not undertaken any such work. It is unfortunate because the problems have been known to the government and are now in danger of intensifying. Against this background, the Parliament should address an announcement to the Government to review the rules on forced liquidation and personal liability in the event of a lack of capital and return to the Riksdag with the necessary legislative proposals. If we want continued prosperity and prosperity in Sweden, we need more companies that can create more jobs and contribute more tax money to the common. However, policy efforts to simplify and facilitate entrepreneurship must also be stepped up. In view of this, Madam President, I would like to endorse the Moderate and Christian Democrats' reservation No 2.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-118	Madam President, I would like In 1996, I left school young, energetic and full of faith in the future. That same year, I started my career as an entrepreneur. I got myself an F-tax note which is the key to becoming an entrepreneur in Sweden. Then I started my business. The choice of organizational form was easy for me. $100,000 to put into a limited liability company, as was demanded at the time, was simply not in my budget, and in addition to that I was sceptical about the requirement that there was to have an accountant. The first month I had a turnover of about $25,000, and that is just as much as if this proposal were to go through, would need to start a limited liability company. If the rules we are discussing here today had been in place in 1996, my choice of organisation would probably have been different. I do not think that the choice of form of organisation has had much significance for myself, but I can imagine that it may have a great impact on other start-ups. We will certainly hear several contributions about the benefits of a lower share capital of the two government subsidies Ola Möller and Ola Johansson that will come up here later in the debate. I already agree with everything positive that they might suggest about a reduction. I also agree with the positive point made by David Josefsson just now. But I would also like to warn against what we highlight in our reservation. It's not just sunshine and blue skies, unfortunately. There are disturbing clouds that are not to or cannot be completely ignored. The government itself says that it wants to review the rules on compulsory liquidation in relation to the new share capital, but not directly related to this bill. However, we Swedish democrats are not satisfied with such a limited investigation. Of course, you should do a broad investigation and at the same time look at several other parts than just forced liquidation. More reasonable is that the investigation is tasked with reviewing what is really an optimal starting capital, which share capital is best after the start-up phase is completed and what a system with increasing requirements for share capital can look like. What really happens to credit rating when it's the way it is now? And will the limited liability companies be forced to make personal bail in more cases than before? Then the entire limited liability company loses its value. We know that other countries have successful laws in this area, such as Denmark, where it is possible to set up a company with lower initial capital than the government now proposes, but where the companies have to raise their capital to a level even higher than what the government proposes before they can make dividends to their owners. I think that no one in here knows for sure what is the absolute best limit for share capital, and probably there is no answer, since start-ups have completely different premises than companies that have been around for a long time. To do a broad, unconditional investigation looking at more than just the part about forced liquidation is therefore what we are proposing today. Why not the other parties can think of a broader investigation of optimal share capital, of the conditions of the limited liability companies during different phases and of a more flexible start-up procedure, they themselves have to answer. I think that David Josefsson and his party wimp out a little when they focus solely on the need for an investigation into the liquidation requirement when half the share capital is exhausted. In my opinion, it is at least as worrying about what is happening about the requirement of personal bail when the share capital drops. There will be no advantage in having a limited liability company if its creditworthiness is so low that it will always be required by the holder of the public limited liability company. Therefore, an investigation should be made much broader than just a focus on the liquidation claim. We have said that we will support the reservations of the Moderates and Christian Democrats in the second place if our reservation against the assumption falls. In conclusion, I would like to support our reservation, which is reservation No 3.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-127	Madam President, I would like The fight against crime is one of the hottest issues at the moment, and crime must be combated. Wherever it pops up, society, all of us together, needs to work to create something better. When organised crime takes hold, it causes suffering – first and foremost for those directly affected, but also for all around who are indirectly affected. The crime seen in television and newspapers and on social media is often about violence, drugs and murder and gets big headlines. It is gang crime and shooting – a crime that we absolutely have to work with. And we need to use the entire palette to succeed. We need a foundation of economic equality where everyone is going, because we know that it is people from socio-economically tough life situations who unfortunately find themselves more easily in a criminal lifestyle. A society where there is good hope for a good future will reduce the risk of gang recruitment and other criminal activities. But it is important not to forget economic crime. It is often not as spectacular and headline-making, but it is not uncommon that it is linked to the crime mentioned above. There is a constant need for legal economic activities on the surface to launder money from other crime. In 2010, the equity capital requirement was reduced from 100,000 to 50,000. Now the government wants to implement a further reduction in capital requirements in limited liability companies from 50 000 to 25 000. Further lowering the requirements risks creating an increase in organised welfare and other economic crime, which is often carried out within the framework of a limited liability company. The use of public limited liability companies as a crime tool has become increasingly common. The form of the company is becoming increasingly common in complex criminal schemes. As there is also a lack of personal responsibility and audit obligations for the smallest companies, fronts and goaltenders can be used without any transparency from any actor. Further lowering capital requirements makes it even easier for criminal interests to use companies as a crime tool. In a large proportion of the criminal reports received by the Swedish Economic Crimes Authority, the form of a limited company exists. And then it should be mentioned that the report from the Swedish Economic Crimes Authority 2016 shows that barely half of the companies audited are deemed to have been used as a crime tool. Madam President, I would like The Economic Crime Authority rejects the proposal and points out that the reduction of share capital will make it easier to conduct financial crime in the form of public limited liability companies, while the increase in the number of serious companies will be limited. The ERC does not consider the proposal to be convincing. Furthermore, the Authority emphasises that the impact assessment on the risk of increased financial crime is a basis. The Prosecutor's Office disagrees with the proposal and points out that the consequences of it have not been sufficiently investigated and taken into account regarding the risk that public limited liability companies may be used to a greater extent in welfare and other economic crime. According to the Authority, there are no proposals for measures that could limit the negative effects of a reduction in the capital requirement. Madam President, I would like The Left Party shares the criticisms and concerns expressed by the above-mentioned consultative bodies. We note that similar criticism was made in connection with the previous reduction in the capital requirement. In the past, the Left Party has been supported by the government parties in its criticism of similar proposals. Of course it is permissible to change, but the Left Party stands by our view that the capital requirement should not be reduced. The negative effects outweigh the possible positive effects of a reduction. We therefore believe that the proposal in the proposal should be rejected. Reducing capital requirements with other decisions such as the abolition of auditors in small companies has made it easier for criminals to use companies as a crime tool. We need order in business. There are many victims of the criminal activity. This applies, for example, to all those serious entrepreneurs who want to do the right thing and who are in danger of fighting out by actors who have absolutely no intention of complying with laws and regulations. I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-RWgbNEceQ4MQwaonih1rb3	Madam President, I would like I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. We debated the issue last spring. Then they asked when the bill would come. It is now being delivered as part of the January Agreement. Perhaps this is not what we Social Democrats would rather do, but now it is what it is. That is why there is little more to be said about it.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-140	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ola Möller, for the wonderful confirmation that the only reason why this matter is up for decision today is that the Center Party has managed to include it in the January agreement! Thank you for the strong argument! During the alliance government in 2006-2010, the Center Party contributed to a reduction in the share capital, from SEK 100 000 to SEK 50 000. This was seen by many critics as a major step and a strong undermining of the financial position of limited liability companies. It was felt that this would immediately mean that the companies would be used for rogue activities by criminal forces. Today, as Mr Thorbjörnson mentioned, we are discussing organised crime and crime on a completely different basis from entrepreneurship, and that is a good thing! Small entrepreneurs, start-ups and small companies are no longer by definition criminals in the public debate in Sweden, but vice versa. And I guess luck is. The halving of the share capital at that time may have contributed to a substantial increase in the number of start-ups, from the then 8,000 companies a year to 30 000 companies. Whether it is entirely the result of the reform cannot be known, but it may also depend on the entrepreneurship-friendly policy of the then alliance government. But to a greater extent it will be possible for people with normal income and wealth to tie money into a share capital, the more accepted and natural it will be to start and run a business. As Mikael Eskilandersson said, it is likely that many of the individual companies that were founded long ago today would have been limited companies. I can confirm that picture with my own experience. Fortunately, we have long since left the time when entrepreneurship was by definition seen as suspicious, especially if the company was successful and profitable and people made money. And it doesn't have to be a new Volvo or something with great ambitions from the beginning, even though it can eventually develop into a Volvo. Since I myself have worked at Norra Älvstranden and, among other things, have had this company as a customer, I can note that Volvo's establishment in various places at Hisingen has probably been a contributing factor precisely to the fact that we have so many start-up companies, technology companies and service companies there. The more people – young people, women, men, immigrants and new old-age pensioners – choose to start a business, the better for Sweden and the better for people. There is a concern from, among others, the Swedish Commerce Federation, which is of course justified because there is a risk that more companies may be exploited for financial crime. It is clear that there are risks, especially today when organised crime is spreading in the way I described earlier. But risks must always be weighed against opportunities, and in this case opportunities outweigh opportunities. Among the entrepreneurs' organisations are the Entrepreneurs, i.e. those who primarily organize these companies, for while the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise is against. It is just as it was the last time the share capital was halved and the result I mentioned with 30 000 start-ups per year was achieved. It's unlikely that we've had 30,000 more criminals. If you think so, you have to say it to those service companies that are expected to be more numerous with this reform. There is a great deal of agreement in the Swedish Parliament that it is time to halve the share capital of a private limited company and go from 50 000 to 25 000 SEK. It is even the case that in 2017 we decided in the Riksdag that the government would come back with such a proposal. It was the last time we had an announcement in this area. As I said at the outset, if the January agreement had not been worked out as a basis for the formation of government, we would probably not have stood in this House today and discussed this simplification of the rules, which is so good that only the Left Party opposes it. Now we have also confirmed that there are doubts on the part of other parties. Probably we would have stood here and discussed the Association Court report on the spring side and received a new announcement, but this is the time to make the historic decision. If one is the least interested in promoting job creation and the good business climate in Sweden, the objections of the Left Party, and possibly others, should be a receipt that seven of the eight parties in Parliament are doing the right thing. I therefore support the proposal and the committee's proposal. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is clear with all the necessary clarity that the rules on compulsory liquidation and personal liability in the event of a lack of capital must be reviewed. That is what the Center Party thinks now, and we have thought so before. The Alliance government announced in 2009 that this was something they were going to do, and there is reason to criticise it for not doing anything. We had a full term of office but did nothing. With a further halving in place, the rules on compulsory liquidation are moving even faster. It goes without saying that 12 500 kroner is too small a sum if you are to be able to replace debtors in full. The issue has been raised in the Moderate follow-up motion, and we can only agree with it, but because it is thanks to the will of the Center Party and Liberals to enter into constructive talks and, among other things, to lower share capital as one of 73 points in the January Agreement, we again have a responsibility as parties to ensure that the reform is fully implemented, even if it means meeting the Moderate reservation without supporting it. One should be able to rely on the Center Party as advocate and implementer of good alliance politics and as a cooperation party.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-154	Madam President, I would like I took a line at Ola Johansson for two reasons. The first is to thank Ola Johansson and the Center Party, because, just as Ola Möller had a record in the debate earlier, it is thanks to the Center Party that this has been included in JÖK. I am not a great supporter of JÖK in terms of either its form or its political orientation, but without the Center Party this would definitely not have been on the 73-point list. Then one can always discuss how much negotiating profit it is that the government implements what the Riksdag has made an announcement about, but that is another thing. However, how the Social Democrats describe their views on this in the debate today leads to another issue, which is the second reason why I took a line on Ola Johansson. I may have some understanding that JÖK does not include reformed rules on forced liquidation. But you can discuss why it's not in the bill. What is Ola Johansson's vision? Based on how the other parties in JÖK view the issue, within what time limit does Ola Johansson think we will have reformed rules on forced liquidation if we do not make an announcement here today?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-158	Madam President, I would like Thank you, David Josefsson, for your questions! Yes, the fact that the issue has come up at this early stage is precisely because we have included this in the January agreement as a point to be implemented quickly. We could have negotiated this already in 2014, but since Stefan Löfven was also released at that time with a yellow button – even the Moderates belonged to the group that released Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister without negotiating a single point – we stand here today and will implement this. As far as the rules on compulsory liquidation are concerned, I believe that David Josefsson realises that, if the reform is to be implemented quickly, everything cannot be implemented at once. I have listened to Mikael Eskilandersson's problematizing about the need for a share capital in the future and conducting extensive investigations on this matter. If there is an interest in the Moderates in talking with Mikael Eskilandersson about that, there is nothing I will oppose. However, I will not participate. I think it is important that we put strong pressure on the government together because we both recognise that this is a concern. I think that Ola Möller can be interpreted in a similar way. If he does not like this, I assume that Ola Möller will be an active social democrat and make sure to influence his government and Prime Minister to satisfy this that we agree on, with different interest and commitment.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-161	Madam President, I would like As I said, it took three years from the announcement of the Riksdag. The question is: Why is it not prepared to sign an announcement today if you agree that the need exists? If it took three years for the government to make an announcement, how long will it take without an announcement? It is clearly stated here in the speaker's chair that you do not want to change the rules. I find it sad that you cannot answer when the question will be prepared, nor are you prepared to vote in favour of an announcement. With the government's current track record in three years' time with an announcement hanging over it, the question recurs: Does Ola Johansson think that it will be faster or slower to get to changed rules on forced liquidation in the event of a capital shortage?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-163	Madam President, I would like It has been a few months since the government took office, and this is one of the first points of the agreement that we are deciding on. And more are coming – be sure! I hope that the Moderates and David are equally committed and enthusiastic about the successes we have achieved. Three years is of course a long time, but then we will add the four years when the alliance government had a minister who was a center party and a prime minister who was moderate. In 2009, the Alliance government carried out the reform by halving the share capital from 100,000 to 50,000. Although that government was well aware of the problem raised by David Josefsson, nothing was done at that time either. So it's been seven years, not three years. That doesn't make matters any less urgent. It is very important that we together push for this. As this proposal is to be drafted and decided quickly, I assume that there is no objection on the part of David Josefsson to that being the case. If he wanted to delay the process for another year, it would have been another matter.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-167	Madam President, I would like Ola Möller's registered eight-minute speaking time went so fast that I didn't really have time to take a line on him, so I have to take a line on the other representative of the government, Ola Johansson, instead. The reduction in share capital from 50 000 to 25 000 is presented as a charity for all companies across Sweden and as if it is now going to fly up a lot of new jobs. But maybe that's not really what it looks like in real life. It has been possible to start a business with zero crowns, and it is still possible. It's just a matter of hopefully avoiding some of your personal bail by having a limited liability company. Nor is it a reform that removes any administration, as has almost been mentioned here. The same justification that we are using this time could actually be used again. We could say that we halve the share capital to 12 500 instead of 25 000. I do not think it would have a very significant impact on the number of jobs either. However, I am very concerned about what is happening with the creditworthiness of public limited liability companies. Do not the Center Party and Ola Johansson also see problems if the credit rating completely disappears? There is no very big investigation behind this that tells us what is happening to credit rating. Will banks demand personal bail more often? It is likely that they will, but in that case it affects all public limited companies that are today honest and have a good and well-functioning business.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-172	Madam President, I would like So it's Ola Möller's fault that I'm allowed to stand here and represent the government. Actually, it's not a suit that I was going to wear to the fullest. The truth is that I, as a Member, have not been involved in any way in the development of this product, but it is the government that has produced it. That is why the question is perhaps a little misdirected. But after all, it seems that Mikael Eskilandersson is not so enthusiastic about this reform. It is even more evident now than it was from his main speech. It would have been interesting to hear what you really think about these opportunities for people to start services. Many of the service companies are not start-ups with large investments in the bottom and large loans in the bank. They are often small service companies. For example, it may be a person who starts a cleaning operation or a person who has acquired a van and who intends to engage in transport activities or something similar. This is a form of company and a form of company that suits entrepreneurs very well regardless of their background and which countries they come from. As far as creditworthiness is concerned, my simple assessment, as somewhat novice in this context, is that it should be a matter for the banks in cases where they intend to lend money to a person who has a company like this. It is a question of making a normal credit assessment not only of the person in question, as is the case when it is an individual firm, but also of the company and its earning capacity.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-176	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by making it clear that I am in favour of the reduction in itself, but only if it really becomes a full limited liability company that we then have. If the limited liability company suddenly turns into some kind of company where you are forced to go on personal bond and where you personally become liable if the company goes bankrupt, you might as well have an individual firm. Because then the limited liability company loses all its value. The stock company is only worth something if it has a self-value that is so high that the banks dare to give a certain credit without requiring a personal guarantee. There I see a great deal of concern about this proposal, because it feels like there is no proper investigation at all. I am surprised that the Center Party has not paid attention to the same concerns. It is not just a question of liquidation. You can have a label that goes pretty well but still need to borrow money. If you need to borrow money and you are suddenly personally responsible, you might as well have an individual firm from the beginning. You wouldn't have had to throw in 25,000 in the first place. It is only if the limited liability company can act as its own legal person that the limited liability company is worth something.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-178	Madam President, I would like When drawing up such a proposal, account should be taken of the diversity of company traditions in different countries. The government has stated in the decision-making document that there are 19 countries within the EU where there is a lower or no share capital. In other countries there are other structures. In Austria, for example, you can start with a small share capital and then expand it. There are many models. The reason for making this change is that it is based on the current regulatory framework. This in itself is a simplistic circumstance for those who think about starting a company. There is no need to deal with a completely new regulatory framework. What we have to start from, if you question whether this reduction will mean a large number of new companies, is what happened when we last lowered the share capital – from 100 000 to 50 000. At that time, the number of companies increased from 8 000 to 30 000. As I said in my main speech, it is likely that serious companies still exist and live. Does this mean that one chooses to set up an individual firm rather than a limited company? It's up to everyone. If you need capital in a growth phase and cannot borrow money in a bank, there is always the choice to make a new issue and bring in new owners that add capital. That is my simple assessment on the basis of my knowledge in this area.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-183	Mr President, I would like to Emissions in Europe will increase by 8 million tonnes, corresponding to 8 million flights to Spain, when Ringhals 1 and 2 are closed. Sweden's total emissions last year were 53 million tonnes. This is an unprecedentedly bad climate policy, but it is also a really bad energy policy. Sweden currently has the world's cleanest electricity production after Norway, the cleanest in the EU. This is due to our unique combination of water, nuclear and wind power, to 98 percent completely fossil-free. In recent years we have seen a fine development for renewable energies, with falling prices and increasing productivity – more clean electricity for money. But wind is not enough, because wind does not always blow. When it does not blow in Sweden it probably does not blow in the rest of the Nordic region either. And when it is really cold in Sweden it is often cold in the whole Nordic region. Swedish industry needs electricity around the clock, every day of the year, even when there are only ten hours of sunshine throughout November. In addition, more electricity is needed now. If we are to complete the 2045 climate transition, we need to increase our electricity consumption equivalent to one-and-a-half Denmark. That is why both renewables and nuclear power are needed in the future as well. Last week the two owners of nuclear power opened up to run Swedish nuclear power far beyond previous end dates. This is a good news, both for Swedish electricity generation and for the climate. My question to the Prime Minister is against this background: Is the government behind a lifetime extension of Swedish nuclear power even after 2040? Secondly, will the Social Democrats be involved in developing an updated energy agreement?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-189	Mr President, I would like to As far as life-time limitation is concerned, we have a very good long-term energy agreement. I believe that the long-term perspective is strong here, and for me it is more than three and a half years. Both Moderates and government parties are part of the Energy Agreement, and it says that nuclear power can be operational for as long as you want. You have to invest in nuclear energy and research into nuclear energy. All of this is therefore already included in the Energy Agreement. Let me also remind you that we have a large electricity surplus in Sweden. In fact, we export between 15 and 20 terawatt hours. This surplus will increase. The responsible authorities expect us to be able to export up to 30 terawatt hours, despite the removal of Ringhals 1 and 2. What I think is important to focus on now is to ensure that we have grid transmission so that we can transport electricity within the country and get more electricity where it is possibly needed. Nor do we have a major problem with the effect in Sweden – that we would not even have enough effect. Last year, I think that perhaps somewhere around the half-year – not in January – February – we had to import electricity. Yes, I stand up for the energy agreement. If you want to negotiate it, just sit in the group that has to deal with it. The parties involved will be in charge of the negotiations if they wish to raise issues there. Welcome to do it! I think it is an important message to industry, industry and all stakeholders that the energy agreement is long-term and stable. For me, it means more than three and a half years.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-193	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister answers a lot of questions that I did not ask, but not the question I asked: Does the government support a lifetime extension of existing Swedish nuclear power even after 2045? To clarify my question, does the Prime Minister think that it can be said that nuclear power is part of renewable energy, if it is the case that we should only have renewables after 2040? There is a contradiction between renewable and fossil-free. My basic question is: Is the government on board when it comes to the fact that Swedish nuclear power is here to stay for the foreseeable future?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-195	Mr President, I would like to That question has been answered in the Energy Agreement, and we agreed on it. If there are actors who want to invest in nuclear power, it is completely free to do so. In addition, the Energy Agreement is based on the agreement concluded between four alliance parties, I believe it was 2008 or 2009. Those pillars are still there. So what the Moderates themselves were involved in concluding an agreement on 2008 or 2009 is like a bottom sheet in the Energy Agreement. I think it should be held. Anyone who wants to invest in nuclear energy does so; it is completely free.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-199	Mr President, I would like to The old, classic Social Democrats were a party for the whole people. They had a vision of a welfare society, with a social safety net that would be there when you needed it. If you got sick, you'd get good care on time, no matter how big a wallet you had. The new Social Democrats have become a party for asylum seekers and trade unionists. The welfare system has been put away, and no one can trust that the safety net is there if you need it. If you fall ill, there is a great risk that, like many others, you will not receive the care you need on time. We are forced to read bizarre news about how Iraq's Minister for Defence receives contributions from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, while seriously ill Swedes are denied sickness benefit. Now people are also fleeing from the new Social Democrats. Every week thousands of voters from the Social Democrats go to the Swedish Democrats. They do so because we intend to restore security in this country. We intend to restore welfare systems when we come to power. Virtually all the measurements show that our parts are now about equal. Several measurements even show that more Swedes have confidence in the Swedish Democrats than in the Social Democrats. Mr President, I would like to My question to the Prime Minister is of course: did he see this coming?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-205	Mr President, I would like to On the far right, it is usually called this: This Social Democracy, right here and now, is not good. Those who came before were good. Göran Persson was told: Ingvar Carlsson was indeed a good Social Democratic leader; then it was order and order. When Ingvar Carlsson was Social Democratic Party leader it was said that it was good at Olof Palme's time. Olof Palme was told that during Tage Erlander it was indeed Social Democrats. Tage Erlander was constantly told: In Per Albin Hansson's time it was good. And Per Albin Hansson was of course told: Imagine what it was good at Hjalmar Branting's time! That is nothing new; it is old and destitute. There is a party in our country and in Parliament that has always stood up for and stands up for the welfare, for the equal value of all people and for the right to live well in our society. This requires, among other things, a lot of tax revenue. Then it is surprising that a party such as the Swedish Democrats aligns themselves with the right-wing conservatives and says: Now it is a question of reducing taxes; that is the primary. Perhaps the Swedish Democrats also know that if you lower taxes a lot, something in the welfare system will not work as well. However, the Swedish democrats have been clear. You are both a party with a past that everyone knows about and a right-wing party that wants to do everything to ensure that welfare does not work in the way we are used to where all people get the good and where duty and right apply – something we will work for in eternal times.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-210	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. As usual, we heard a lot about right-wing extremism, but I ask myself: Is it really right-wing extremism to prioritise welfare before mass immigration? I don't think so. On the contrary, I think it is precisely this priority that the voters want to see. I think that is exactly why the voters are now leaving the Social Democrats and going to the Swedish Democrats. Why does the government think that large immigration is more important than health care and proper pensions for the elderly?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-213	Mr President, I would like to Let me inform Henrik Vinge that it is the government I lead that has laid down migration policy. The parties that Vinge and the Swedish Democrats want to associate themselves with stand up for the old migration policy. We have changed the migration policy, because it was not sustainable. Now we are going to ensure that asylum seekers are fairly distributed in Europe. There are people who have to seek asylum, even if the Swedish Democrats do not really want to see it. It is not possible for the Swedish Democrats to say that they think about welfare and then lie with the right and think about major tax cuts. You have a policy that doesn't make any sense. In addition, you want to cut back on educational opportunities and labour market policies so that those who actually come to our country can stand in the welfare line. It is a policy of democracy in Sweden.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-217	Mr President, I would like to I'll pick up where the last question ended. We in Sweden have a wonderfully good health care. However, there is one group that is not covered by it, and it is all those who suffer from a drug addiction, an addiction disease. We have Europe's second highest mortality rate in drug addiction. Every year, 1 000 young people die. If we had been on the EU average, it would have been it 200. It is a disgrace to Sweden. This is not due to the fact that very many people are using drugs in our country, because here we are, thankfully, relatively low. Without it, it is largely related to how we have organised the care of people with drug addiction. This group often has not only a drug addiction but also a mental diagnosis and a somatic diagnosis. Nevertheless, it is divided up so that municipalities are responsible for the treatment of drug dependence and county councils for all other healthcare. It is totally unreasonable, and almost no other country has organised it in this way. In addition, we have three coercive laws that go into each other and are sent back and forth between different systems. Law changes are needed, and this is something that the Center Party has been pushing for a long time. The health officer shall be responsible for all treatment of illness, including drug dependence. A year ago we had a united parliament to support an announcement with an invitation to the government to take the initiative to correct both coercive legislation and treatment responsibilities so that this group also has the opportunity to take part in the fantastic Swedish healthcare system. When will the government start doing this job?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-225	Mr President, I would like to The Government will of course take on and work on all announcements from the Riksdag. However, I do not have a timetable on this particular issue; I do not have it in my head. All announcements are of course important, and this group, as Anders W Jonsson says, will have the same opportunity as others to both mental and somatic care. Until the work of the government is complete, the regions and municipalities must ensure that cooperation works so that no one falls between the chairs. After all, it is not that no one has the task, but perhaps the problem is that both have the task. But someone has to make sure that this group actually receives the care that is relevant. I cannot answer exactly where this question lies. We have a number of questions on the table of the government, and I do not have that very timetable. But any announcements the government receives, the government will work on.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-229	Mr President, I would like to This works extremely badly. So we have the second highest mortality rate in this disease group. We would never accept that in the case of cancer, diabetes or any other disease, but in the case of this particular group we accept that we have a completely unreasonable organisation. It was the TV programme Mission Review that a year ago aroused the members of the Social Affairs Committee. It was about 29-year-old Sanne who had a drug addiction and other diseases. For 14 days she was sent between 12 different institutions with different forced laws. This cannot wait any longer. Many measures are needed, but one of the most important things is to sort this out in the legislation so that county councils are also given responsibility for this group and so that forced legislation is brought into line. It's not a day too soon. My question remains: how high is the government prioritising this?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-232	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we work daily with announcements and proposals for people to receive, in this case, the best care regardless of what they suffer from and what care they need. I think Anders W Jonsson and I agree that the problem is, unfortunately, a little wider. This is an important group, but there are more groups where regions and municipalities need better cooperation. You may have to be responsible in a place for it to work better for the individual. Again: I can't give a date, because I don't have it in my head. However, all announcements from the Riksdag are the government's duty to work with.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-235	Mr President and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven! The Swedish Employment Service is in a deep crisis. One might say that there is a chaotic situation at Arbetsförmedlingen. This cannot be the sole responsibility of the government; it began with the blue-brown budget. But the government chose not to spend the money that would have been needed now, and the crisis has been allowed to continue. This has major consequences for many people. It's about people who are already having a tough time. We read in the newspaper that people with disabilities do not get the help they need to get to an employment that is adapted for them. We also know that the long-term unemployed are increasingly calling for support from municipalities because the Public Employment Service is not up to its task. Municipal councillors of various political colours sound the alarm that costs are increasing and that they do not really know how to deal with this situation. Above all, they do not know what the solution will be in the future. This is a very serious situation at a time when the economic cycle is turning downwards and more people are likely to need support from society. A key part of the government's policy is to privatise much of Arbetsförmedlingen's activities; it will be published with the Freedom of Choice Act. I wonder if that's wise. The first major attempt made to use LOV in Arbetsförmedlingen was the so-called establishment pilots. It took an end of horror. The system had to be abolished after widespread financial crime. There were even trafficking in human beings, bribes, death threats against officials and IS recruitment attempts – in a privatised system which was better disposed of. Why is the Prime Minister so convinced that the Freedom of Choice Act is the best way to help Sweden's unemployed?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-242	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to Arbetsförmedlingen you can split it up in two perspectives. One is resources for Arbetsförmedlingen. It was a budget that was decided in the Swedish parliament and that was not the government. It went through and dramatically reduced the administrative appropriations allocated to the Employment Service as well as labour market policy measures. This led to, I believe, the greatest notice that the Swedish labour market had last year: 4 500 were given. Now the Left Party intends to align itself with those who voted through this budget and send the debt to the government, which did not decide on the budget. This is, to me, a very strange thing to do. We're now launching resources to the Arbetsförmedlingen. We have done this in the budget, so it is not true that we have not done so. We've made a move. It is just that money that has been spent in a budget is not there and is waiting, but is busy elsewhere. But now we are still pushing and making sure that there are more resources to make it a reasonably sensible situation for Arbetsförmedlingen. It's tough anyway. We know that, and that's why we're going to make it work. The Arbetsförmedlingen should be around our country. Regardless of the municipality in which people live and where they are, they should have the opportunity to get help from Arbetsförmedlingen. This can be done in different ways. Either you have a sign yourself in the municipality or the town, or you have it in the service office that you have in common with other authorities or you have it in the municipality's premises. Many have that order. We are making more money available for labour market policy measures because it is necessary. We are making a substantial contribution, as the Minister for Labour has told us today, but the Left Party nevertheless believes that it is better to associate itself with Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats. This is absolutely astounding.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-246	Mr President, I would like to It is the Prime Minister and the Government that bears full responsibility for the chaos in the Employment Service. I am surprised that it is not prepared to take political responsibility for the authorities for which it is directly responsible. If the money isn't enough, you have to spend more money. It's the government's responsibility. Arbetsförmedlingen is in something similar to free-fall in large parts of Sweden. The government cannot escape its responsibilities. The Government is also obliged to listen to the majority of the Riksdag. If there is no majority in parliament for politics, the government must adapt the policy accordingly. This also applies to the Government of Stefan Löfven. Otherwise, it could end in a bad way. The Prime Minister carefully avoided even touching the question I asked, namely whether this kind of forced privatisation through the Freedom of Choice Act is in fact the best way to help the unemployed in Sweden. My question is, did the Prime Minister himself decide? If the Prime Minister had not signed the unfortunate January agreement, would he choose to use the privatisation via LOV for the Employment Service?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-250	Mr President, I would like to If I hadn't signed the January agreement, Jonas Sjöstedt might have got what he wants, Ulf Kristersson as Sweden's Prime Minister. That's the alternative. That is perhaps why Jonas Sjöstedt is dealing with moderates, Swedish democrats and Christian Democrats. Today, 60% of the actors who perform something for the Employment Service in labour market policy are private actors. I myself know from my own experience from my trade union work that many actors do a good job within the framework of the Security Fund. But it should work for everyone, and that is why, among other things, people who are disabled are removed from it. And of course we demand that wherever you are in the country, the Employment Service should be there, in all municipalities. You're supposed to have help for a new job, end of story.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-252	Mr President, I would like to The government has been late in taking action against the growing serious crime. Crime has been allowed to take new ground without warning bells ringing in Rosenbad. Since 2014, there has been a doubling of the number of shootings. Today we have more shootings than in the mafia country of Italy. By October this year, Sweden had been shaken by 173 blasts. Analysts on national bomb protection have compared the situation in Malmö to what it was like in northern Spain during Eta's worst ravages. Nevertheless, the government has repeatedly said no to proposals that would have helped to bring crime down, and then, when it finally realised the seriousness of the situation, it still turns and takes proposals as its own. These include the criminalisation of associations of terror, the introduction of crown witnesses, the introduction of anonymous witnesses, the enforcement of criminal offences linked to criminal settlements, the national emergency court, the life sentence for murder, increased criminal protection for bluelight personnel, the prohibition of stay and the requirement for participation in conditional release treatment programmes. My question to the Prime Minister is this: is this not the time to turn again and adopt another KD proposal, namely to set aside funds to reinstate retired police investigators and thus ensure that we have more criminals convicted? It's not an expensive reform. If we could attract 400 investigators back, the cost would be approximately SEK 400 million, but the profit for Sweden would be large. Why not take this opportunity?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-255	Mr President, I would like to The agency reports to me that you hire retired police officers and police officers who have quit, so they're there doing a job. This is already happening, and I think it is a good thing. The reason is that we allocated more funds to the Authority than the Authority itself requested, so that it could employ more and improve conditions. So this is something that is going on. Above all, it is those who have chosen to quit who are coming back, but there are others as well. It's not that the shootings started in 2014, but they started earlier. You can see a clear rise from 2010. When we arrived at the Government Office, there were zero laws prepared to deal with this. From day one, when I became Prime Minister, we have worked with, not least, punitive measures. Fifty or so penalties are now being imposed directly on organised crime. We're adding more resources to the police. The police get more tools. We have tightened the penalties for terrorist travel and financial contributions to terrorism. There are a host of such laws. In many cases we have been broadly agreed politically, and that is a good thing. But don't tell me anything but that the laws have been prepared in the Government Office! And we're gonna keep going. Now we have the new 34-point program. There I feel that we have a decent broad consensus in terms of implementing it. This is good. This is what society needs to hear. This is what the people of Sweden need to hear. We have broad political agreement that we should fight crime. However, this alone will not be enough. It is probably so important to strike at the crimes here and now, but we also need to work much more preventively and prevent more young boys and especially young men from going to the path of the crime. They're going to school and they want to be something.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-259	Mr President, I would like to All the proposals that I listed earlier have been opposed or opposed by the government and then turned. Of course, the Prime Minister doesn't want to feel his fluctuations. Maybe he didn't see them coming. Similarly, he is reluctant to say that the January agreement is now forcing him to push through the policy he went to elections a year ago to fight. For this is a pattern of government. It does not act with the aim of leading the country, but reacts with a view to retaining power in the country. The gang talks called the government, but when our representative arrived there there was neither a meeting agenda nor a list of their own proposals that the government wanted to discuss. Instead, we were asked to come up with ideas. Now the Prime Minister has another idea served on how we could get more investigators in place. This is happening on a very limited scale and scale today. Why say no to something that could mean more victims getting redress and more conviction?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-262	Mr President, I would like to It's a strangely worded question. I'm not saying no to anything. It's the agency that's hiring. The police department hires those who need to be hired. Today, policemen who have quit and others are hired. It's being fully hired. That's why 1,100 policemen have been hired in Sweden this year – 1,100! It was many years ago, Ebba Busch Thor, that there were so many hired. Who has taken the initiative? Here it is important to ensure that resources are transferred, and that is what we are doing. It is a matter of ensuring that the police have better tools, and that is exactly what we are doing. It is a matter of ensuring that laws are tightened up, and that is what we are doing. That is why, moreover, it is basically full in detention centres and in prisons. Virtually all Class 1 and Class 2 sites are occupied, and that means something. We are doing something, and we will continue to do so.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-265	Mr President, I would like to In order for us to meet the climate change target of net zero emissions by 2045, we will need significantly more electricity. Electric roads, electric cars, server halls and climate-proof industrial processes are some examples of things that will require more electricity. This must not be hindered by the fact that the supply of electricity cannot be secured because electricity production is not sufficient or because supplies cannot be guaranteed everywhere in the electricity grid during all minutes of the year. After all, we can see that the reforms in the energy agreement are almost over. The Liberals have therefore taken the initiative, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, to demand new talks in order to reach a new agreement by the end of the year. It would be a nice Christmas present for industry as well as the climate. The long-term perspective and a broad agreement are what the energy companies, that is, the overall industry, have said in a commentary on our demands. My simple question is: Will the Prime Minister contribute to new talks between all parties in Parliament?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-268	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that we need more electricity and better electricity transmission. That is why it is now being invested heavily in electricity generation as such. Since the energy agreement was concluded at mid-2016, a total of 80 billion have been invested in wind power. That is why responsible authorities are now seeing an increase in our electricity surplus. We need to invest considerably more in the electricity grid, so that the transmission works better; there is no doubt about that. There is a working group within the framework of the agreement, and we have always said that when the agreement needs to be developed we will discuss it. However, the Liberals dropped out of the agreement, which makes it a bit difficult in that case. If the Liberals want to get back into the deal, we think that's a good thing. We say yes to that, and the responsible minister is prepared to discuss what needs to be developed in the agreement. However, we are not going to remove the agreement, because it is necessary. It is long-term, and for me it means more than three and a half years.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-270	Mr President, I would like to How does the government intend to strengthen competitiveness and really tackle the climate challenge if it is not prepared to sit down and conduct broad discussions with all parties in Parliament? Swedish energy policy is a bit like a charged battery. Now we need to load it with new energy and new reforms so that we can have a long-term and broad policy and strengthen Swedish competitiveness.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-271	Mr President, I would like to The call to the Liberals is therefore: Join the agreement! Be in it! There is every opportunity to discuss and develop the agreement. We're not closing a door there. But the agreement as such – the base it is built on – should hold, because it was our message to the Swedish business community. We said: Now we have a long-term agreement. It is appreciated not least by industry, and now what is rarely invested in renewable energy is now invested in the past. So join the agreement and discuss there! We haven't closed any door at all. We shall ensure that competitiveness is maintained, and that is where the long-term agreement is extremely important.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-274	Mr President, I would like to There's a wave of violence going on in silence. When all the focus is on shootings and explosions in gang-criminal circles, the consequence is that men's violence against women ends up in the shadow. I would like to take it out of the shadow and say the following to the Swedish Prime Minister. Since the turn of the millennium, 299 women have been killed by their husband, boyfriend, or ex-husband. In every fourth case of deadly violence, a man kills a woman with whom he has or has had a relationship. The number doubled last year, from 11 to 22. The most dangerous environment for men to be in are criminal gangs and their settlements. The most dangerous environment for women is home, along with the man they live with. The cases of abuse are a thousandfold more, and the numbers of darkness are frightening.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-277	Mr President, I would like to We can't have any other vision. I totally share Thorell's disgust with this violence. I would like to be a little personal and say that I can see nothing more unmanageable than attacking women with this terrible violence. It's not male. Let's nail it first. The government has for some time made sure that women's and girls' shelters have received considerably more resources, because these women need it. But it is clear that the best thing is to work preventively; they should not even have to be exposed to this. There is therefore a need for much more information and discussion, for example in schools, but also in other contexts. I can imagine that the whole sports movement is discussing this. We have also worked on honour-related violence and a strategy to prevent men's violence against women. This work must never stop, and I fully share the view that zero is the only acceptable thing.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-281	Mr President, I would like to The climate situation is far more serious than research has shown in the past. The UN forecasts are based on the fact that emissions are beginning to decrease as early as next year, but emissions are continuing to increase. If we continue with current emission levels, we will have to come down to zero within eight years. This means that we are in a hurry – a real hurry. It's about the future of our children and grandchildren. That is what the climate summit in Madrid next week is all about. What does the Prime Minister think is Sweden's role in the global climate work, and how does the Prime Minister want to contribute to increased climate ambitions and climate justice?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-283	Mr President, I would like to I think that Sweden should be very active and proactive. We will show that it is possible to have economic growth and development in society while reducing emissions. It is the Swedish story, and it is interesting to note that many countries are interested in what has actually been done and what is being done. We're at the forefront. I believe that the vast majority have heard of the example of steel production, which hopefully can happen soon without the use of coal. It's a revolution for steel. We are also researching electric flights, and we soon have the first electric roads in Sweden – where trucks can also be charged with electricity. To be at the forefront in this way, to make climate benefits and also to benefit from it through new technologies, new products and new jobs is something the rest of the world is looking at. Sweden is now in active work in the EU, and the EU is in active work globally. We must ensure that climate change is strengthened.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-286	Mr President, the Prime Minister. We are currently in the final negotiations on the European Union's new agricultural policy, and although we are not going to keep up the time, we are going over by one or two years, it is approaching. It is remarkable that the government points out that our position from Sweden is significantly reduced expenditure. During the discussion that has taken place over the past year, we have talked about significantly reduced expenditure and that it should be the 5% that the Commission has previously proposed. Now we are receiving signals from the government that there will be even greater cuts. That is simply the line taken, Mr President. Since we know that Sweden is one of the countries where agriculture is absolutely most dependent on EU aid, this will have an enormous impact on the profitability of Swedish agriculture. Agriculture also represents an important part of the transition to an environment- and climate-smart society. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister, Mr President: what concrete tools does the government want to use nationally in politics so that we can maintain profitability in Swedish agriculture? Do we withdraw EU aid, on which we are very dependent – which we agree – even if the government is pursuing a somewhat tougher line right now – what concrete tools should be given to agriculture in Sweden?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-289	Mr President, I would like to I didn't quite understand. It is a party that is pushing for as little agricultural policy as possible, but yet we must have as much agricultural policy as possible. Agricultural policy as such is, of course, being discussed in isolation. I think it should change, because what is happening today – for example, with the large area payments that we have been able to read about, not least in the New York Times – is not to be filled. These contributions are used in a very strange way, albeit legally. It's perfectly correct, but it's still a very strange way for me. In Sweden we have for some years an agricultural policy which means that we – of course – support agriculture. It is about ensuring that we are at the forefront of organic farming, organic food and what we need to do for the future. It is also a question of ensuring that it is competitive. In Sweden we will have competitive rules, but what we can do will also be based on what the CAP rules will look like. There is no doubt, however, that Swedish agriculture should be competitive.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-294	Mr President, the Prime Minister. A new record has been broken in Sweden, and I do not think of the record number of shootings and blasts in our country. Instead, I am thinking of the record-long care queues. In 2014, when the Prime Minister took office, 14 per cent did not receive their surgery within the 90 days of the health guarantee. Now, five years later, the figure has risen to 27 percent. As regards the waiting time for cancer diseases for women, the situation is even more serious. As many as 60 percent of those affected by breast cancer do not receive treatment on time according to the standard course of care. As far as cervical cancer is concerned, it is even worse: 85% of these women do not receive treatment on time. My question, of course, is: did the Prime Minister not see this negative development coming when his own authority Care analysis warned against this already in 2017? Why, then, have steps not been taken to reverse this trend? After all, you've had five years.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-298	Mr President, I would like to It is for this reason that we have given a great deal of resources to health care. That is also why we are doing it now, with a revised cue billion. The Moderates themselves said that the previous cue billion was not effective enough, and it was not. Maybe we should have redoed it. Now, however, there is soon a new and more effective one in place. We're firing more, specifically cancer. I would argue that the standardised course of care in cancer treatment has led to shorter waiting times in general, although there is certainly much more to be done there. In addition, we have the investment in the staff – that you can actually hire staff – and the investment in the staff to be able to develop and their training. We also have free mammography and free outpatient care for people over 85 years of age. The investment in health care is part of the investment in the strong society. We will continue to do so.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-304	Mr President, I would like to The January agreement provides for a comprehensive tax reform to be carried out. Lower taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship, simplifications and fewer exceptions are some of the things to be achieved with the reform. It has now been eleven months since the January agreement was signed, but we have not yet heard anything about when the reform work will begin. After all, the government has moved in the opposite direction – through the budget that was put here yesterday, the tax system will be more complicated and include more exceptions on the January 1st anniversary. The other day I met an entrepreneur who asked me when the tax reform will come and when it will be completed. It is difficult for me as an opposition politician to answer that, I said, but I wonder if the Prime Minister can answer that. Is the work on tax reform under way? When are the proposals presented? And when will it be ready?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-308	Mr President, I would like to Work's in progress. I do not have a precise date or time for this either. It is a very complex work, as Hampus Hagman will understand. There are several things that are included as parameters in the tax reform. We will make sure that we can afford to pay for the welfare we need. We also need to ensure that the financial sector contributes significantly more and that we increase productivity and get more hours worked. It is this type of parameters that are now to be added together. Then, of course, the parties involved discuss what they want to add to the equation. This work is governed by the Ministry of Finance. It is a work that should be speeded up as quickly as ever possible, but I cannot set any time for this.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-312	Mr President, I would like to There is a great deal of concern in Sweden, not least among many Jews, for the demands that have been raised from parties in the Riksdag to ban male circumcision. It would be a complete manslaughter battle against minorities in Sweden that are already exposed to hatred and intolerance if the demands that have been brought forward from not least the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats were to be realised. I think it would now be very important to send a clear signal from the Prime Minister and the Swedish Government that they are behind freedom of religion and that they are behind the current order we have in Sweden since 2001 in terms of male circumcision.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-314	Mr President, I would like to I can make this clear to Fredrik Malm: we are, of course, behind freedom of religion. It is a bottom of Swedish society. In this case, it means that circumcision of boys is legal – it was in 2001, I believe – provided it is carried out by doctors or other staff who have been approved by IVO. I think this is absolutely right, and we should stand by it. It is an important part of religion, and one should as a Jew or Muslim here in Sweden feel confident that circumcision for boys is okay. We stand up for that.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-317	Mr President, I would like to For all the women who are abused every day and often experience violence leading to death, I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. Every month at least one woman in Sweden is killed by violence in close relationships. On average, there are 16 women per year. Last year, 22 women were murdered in our country. Often the perpetrator is the man the woman loves or has loved. Men's deadly violence against women occurs almost exclusively within the four walls of the home and is often described as private tragedies. Many times there are children at home who become Witnesses and who sometimes also try to intervene. Assault and deadly violence against women bring many victims, but they also cost society a great deal. It is a social problem that deserves the utmost attention. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister what further steps he intends to take to end male abuse and deadly violence against women.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-323	Mr President, I would like to It's the same reasoning as with Olle Thorell. There are a few things that are important. One thing is to prevent as much as possible. That is why I think that the debate among men must be about the fact that it is quite wrong if you think that this is male – it is exactly the opposite. Another thing is that we need to get better at discussing these issues in schools so that boys understand how to behave when you become a man. A third thing is that we need to be better at detecting these crimes. All authorities, both health care and other authorities, need to be better at cooperating and discovering this. We have strengthened the police's ability to investigate this, but the prosecution system needs to be better at doing its part. The whole chain of justice needs to be improved. For some parts of the legal chain, compulsory training is included in how to get better at driving this type of case. Last but not least, the position of children should be strengthened. That's why we want to make them plaintiffs in connection with crimes. If you witness that your father beats your mother or even does something even worse, you're going to be a plaintiff. You should get much faster help with representation and have the right to compensation.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-330	Mr President, I would like to In 2015, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven promised that Sweden would have Europe's, or rather the EU's, lowest unemployment rate by 2020. As we stand with the facts, we see that it was just the opposite. We belong to the absolute bottom together with countries such as Greece, Spain, Italy and France. We also have the highest unemployment ever in the boom of Sweden. The Prime Minister abandoned the case with more or less a heel kick. As we move into a slowdown, I wonder if the Prime Minister has any other promises or objectives regarding Sweden's unemployment. Or has the government completely abandoned all such ambitions? I would like an answer to that.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-332	Mr President, I would like to The objective of the EU's lowest unemployment rate was precisely based on a number of in-depth parameters. It must be based on more people coming to work, more hours worked in the economy. That is what is at the heart of the problem; otherwise the unemployment target can be tightened up. That is why we committed ourselves so clearly to this. Are you all right? Yes, there are now over 300 000 more people in work than when the government took office, and we have a high employment rate. Among other things, there are 100 000 of them in the public sector. Those are facts. We have more hours worked. The new arrivals come faster in work since we took office. We have in principle halved the time for this. I think that's good, too. What has happened during this time is that so many people have come out on the Swedish labour market, and that in itself is positive. We must now add more money to education and labour market policy measures. Then you can't, like the Moderates, deduct the money to lower taxes. Then it goes wrong. Now we are moving in the right direction, and we intend to continue.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-338	Mr President, I would like to During the week I have had a very interested praoe student with me. She's told me she's thinking about becoming Prime Minister, so the Prime Minister's gonna have to watch out a little bit here. When I ask her what the most important thing is that I should work with here in Parliament, she says that she is worried about how young people are doing. Her friends move too little and feel worse. I can only agree with her as a mother, as a doctor, as a politician and also as a fellow human being. I would therefore like to address today's question to the Prime Minister if he is concerned about young people moving too little and suffering a great deal from mental illness. Because physical activity is part of the treatment, it becomes a vicious circle. The Public Health Agency has said that you see different causes. There may be serious shortcomings in the functioning of the school. The school therefore needs to be strengthened. They also point to a greater awareness of the increased demands on the labour market. So young people have a great concern about whether they will get a job in the future. Mr President, I would like to My question to the Prime Minister is, and it is quite a big question, whether he shares my concern and that of my praoelev for the deteriorating health of young people and what the Prime Minister wants to do about it.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-343	Mr President, I would like to This is a very important issue. Of course we want our young people to feel good. They should have confidence in the future, hope for themselves and for the country of course. There's a lot to do there. That is why we have begun to invest in the school. Today we have about 30 000 more adult employees in school. There is a need for both teachers and teachers' assistants, as well as curators and others. We will therefore further strengthen student health so that more people can get attention and help at an early stage. We will therefore also strengthen the psychiatry in health care and strengthen the resources for BUP, which also needs more resources. We're gonna do what's on the community. It is then important that we build confidence in the future, for example, that we have the opportunity to do something really good on the issue of climate change. This is an issue that involves many young people, and I would like to have young people there so that we can look to the future. We have an important social mission here, and in it the young people should be involved as a really important part.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-347	Mr President, I would like to Not far from where I live, Robin went home from school. He was accompanied by his older brother Alejandro. Like out of nowhere, an assailant came out with a gun. Robin jumped in front of his brother, got shot and fell dead down to the ground. His older brother was hit by several shots but miraculously survived. But he's paralyzed and he's got to sit in a wheelchair for the rest of his life. Their mother is sitting here in the gallery today. She struggles to make sure that no other mother suffers what happened to her, to lose her child, to have her child shot. Sometimes it feels like work in the wind. She and I both live in what is called a vulnerable area. The Prime Minister has spoken earlier about class society, and we share his view that it must be broken. School results must be raised, and unemployment must be reduced.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-351	Mr President, I would like to I would, of course, like to begin by regretting the tragedy that happened to Robin. We need to be very clear about two things. One is that violence here and now must be combated, and that requires a tough hold. That's why we need more cops. They're supposed to have better tools. We need to tighten the laws and have tightened 50 laws so far. If you walk around today with a gun in your inner pocket, or wherever you have it, and get caught, you won't get out for at least two years. It wasn't like that before. Then you could be questioned in the afternoon and come out that afternoon. It doesn't work like that now. The second is prevention, how we prevent young boys and men from going to the path of crime. Then it is employment, jobs for the adults, that applies. They're supposed to see the grown-ups go to work. That must be what's normal. Of course, they should dream of something themselves, and it makes it easy if you see the adults go to work. The school should therefore have more resources. Schools with the greatest socio-economic challenges should have more money. It will also be easier to apply for that money. We need more people from different professional groups in school – teachers, teachers' assistants, curators and others – who surround young people with more security. We must have nice neighborhoods. That's why we need to build more and renovate more. All this is a welfare building. We will continue to do so and ensure that young people do not choose the path of crime. They're gonna want something else.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-359	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question on the grounds that there is terrible killing and maiming in Iran at the moment. We receive daily information about the contradictions in Iraq, which have resulted in a lot of misery there. We have also been informed that the Minister of Defence in Iraq has Swedish citizenship. While this is happening, even greater events are taking place in neighbouring Iran, despite the fact that this in Sweden has been appallingly silent about the violence there. Do you know that, according to reports, 450 people have been killed in recent weeks and over 5,000 have been injured in the same time? In addition, over 10,000 are arrested in some of the world's worst prisons. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore this: what can Sweden do to reduce this terrible suffering, and how can we protest against the destructive killing and make it public throughout the world?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-363	Mr President, I would like to I think, as Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng says, we can help make it known how it is. We're looking around us a pretty troubled world. There are many countries where there are uprisings, conflicts and strife, allegedly also in Iran. We have been very clear in our contacts with Iran from the Swedish side that it is important to build a democratic society in which everyone feels that they are involved, that women's rights are respected, that equality is respected and so on. Last and lastly, it is the Iranian government that is responsible for the situation in Iran. It may be, but we should always point out errors that we see being committed. This is the case with Iran and with other countries where we believe it needs to change. This work is ongoing all the time. We have to help spread information about what is going on in different countries around the world.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-368	Mr President, I would like to As has just been said, there is a broad understanding that the number of police officers must increase significantly. The government has promised 10,000 more police employees in about five years, and hopefully most of them will be police officers. But even if the police colleges are growing, and more are also starting to go to the police profession, the departures are very large. In many places the number of policemen has decreased. Nowadays it is rare for police officers to be present in the reality that many feel is increasingly insecure. One way to quickly increase the presence in the streets and squares would be to allow government officials to step in. But the government seems uninterested in this solution. In the longer term, it is of the utmost importance that the promise of more police officers does not meet the same fate as the promise that by 2020 we would have Europe's lowest unemployment. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: when will we have 10 000 more police employees? Can the Prime Minister give a guarantee of such a commitment?
i-39b7e06c9c472418-370	Mr President, I would like to The year 2024 is the year we have set up, and we are well on our way. It's somewhere between 2,000 and 3,000 now. Finally, I think that this is important to leave to the authority. Of course, it is a question of many police officers, and that is why we are making an expansion. We haven't seen as many policemen in training as we have now. Right now it's 1 100. I recently met with aspirants and assistants on their way out. It has been a long time since the police authorities saw so many, and that is why we opened two additional police training courses. Now it is moving in the right direction, and it must continue. As far as departures are concerned, several have actually been reinstated. They've come back to the police. I think it has to do with the fact that the Police Federation may have written one of the best wage agreements in the labour market, thanks to the resources that the government has provided in the budget. I want to go on like that. The question of security officers can be investigated, but you can't just put security guards on the same tasks as the police. Order guards have 14 days of training. The police have a lot longer. Their task may be broadened, but it must first be examined what powers and what training they should have.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-375	Mr President, I would like to Swedish healthcare is at the top of the world. Every day care saves lives, and Sweden stands out positively when it comes to survival after heart attack, stroke or breast cancer, for example. But in many places the waiting times are far too long. As is well known, it is the regions that are responsible for health care. The region where I live, Västra Götaland, is governed for the second term by the Moderates. This is the longest waiting time in the country. During October, nearly two thirds of all patients at Sahlgrenska University Hospital had to wait longer than 90 days for surgery or action. At the moment, more than 25 000 people in the region are waiting for an operation or action.
i-39b7e06c9c472418-378	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. It is important to make the link between the national and the regional. This is where we have to help each other. That was also my message at the Swedish Municipalities and Regions Congress in Linköping yesterday. There is, of course, a national responsibility to ensure that care is equal. That is why it is so important that we ensure, for example, that trained staff are available. Then the regions can hire them. In addition, the regions will have additional resources to manage and decide what they want to do with. In addition to this, we are pushing for an adjusted queue billion which we believe will be much more effective. The government, together with all the regions, also wants to make an agreement with each region on how to get to grips with the problem and be able to shorten queues in each region. What exactly does this region need to make it a reality? I believe that this may be a successful way of working.
