i-aa263c9df0d28a42-1	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me why the government is abolishing the investment in parental support programmes and whether I intend to take any steps to strengthen preventive work to reduce the long-term pressure on the country's social services. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's latest progress reports show that social services have been strained in several municipalities in recent years. The Government has therefore taken steps to strengthen social services and develop social care for children and young people. I will mention some of the measures taken. First of all, work continues within the framework of the national parenthood support strategy. The Agency for Family Law and Parental Support has the task of supporting implementation and monitoring the strategy, and all county boards have the task of supporting the actors in each county in developing their work. The strategy is an important tool for strengthening parenthood and the relationship between children and parents. The aim is for all parents to be offered parental support throughout the child's childhood. In addition to the strategy, the National Board of Health and Welfare is tasked with supporting social care professionals and social care professionals. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, together with the Swedish National Agency for Education, is also tasked with carrying out a three-year development work aimed at improving cooperation between student health, health care and social services. The government has also allocated money to the operations. For strengthened staffing in child and youth care services, state grants are allocated annually to municipalities for more social security secretaries. This means a total of SEK 360 million in 2018 – 2019 for strengthened staffing and SEK 150 million further in 2020. In addition, state subsidies are allocated to municipalities of SEK 100 million annually between 2018 and 2020 in order to strengthen social services' efforts for children and young people with mental illness. The ongoing inquiry into the future of social services, which reviews the tasks and responsibilities of social services, has laid a foundation in its interim report and demonstrated the importance of preventive work. The final report to be submitted by 1 June next year will present proposals for a modernised Social Services Act. I look forward to the investigation's proposals, which I hope will be of great importance in meeting several of the societal challenges and promoting an equal, equal, sustainable and professional social service.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Minister says that the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's latest progress reports show that social services have been strained in several municipalities in recent years. I would like to say that this is the understatement of the day. If we look at what the situation is and have been for many years in social services, we see that it is extremely strained not only in a few municipalities but practically in all 290 municipalities in Sweden. Not least because of the large reception of asylum seekers that we have had in combination with the fact that we also see an increased need for social services, for example because many children and young people are mentally ill and in need of help. I and the Moderates think that there is reason to talk about social services as if they are in crisis, at least in the form of a staffing crisis. The Minister's answer here highlights some of the efforts that the government has made to improve staffing in the social services, and well that's it, but basic I think is to work with working conditions within the social services, to create better conditions for employees to do a good job, to improve the working environment and not least to work preventively, which this interpellation focuses on. Today, some 1 000 social secretaries are missing in the country. Eight out of ten municipalities report difficulties in recruiting social security officers. On average, social secretaries meet their clients four hours a week, and investigators in child and youth care have individual conversations with children and young people on average ten minutes a day. I think the Minister fully agrees with me that this is a situation that is not satisfactory but, on the contrary, is very worrying. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we have put forward a wide range of proposals to address the urgent problems that we see in the field of social services. Among other things, they are about us wanting to see a new social services law. It is good that there is an investigation going on and that a new law is hopefully underway. We also want to launch a national action plan to address, for example, health and safety issues, see how digitalisation can be used to free up more time for administrators for the really important work and much more. I think that a national action plan should also focus very much, Madam President, on overcoming the major shortcomings that we see in equality across the country. There are huge differences in health care and care between different municipalities, and unfortunately the same applies also in social services. A small municipality may find it more difficult to provide as much support as a larger one, and the regional differences and differences between municipalities are not acceptable. Madam President, I would like I think the government is not doing much and certainly not enough to tackle the current crisis in social services. But my interpellation is more about preventive work and what we can do to prevent children and young people from having social problems in the future and thus how we can work in the long term to reduce the pressure on social services. The pressure on social services is extremely high, and I think it is important that we work proactively to reduce pressure, not tomorrow but in the long term, so that social services get better opportunities. Unfortunately, I do not think that the Minister is really answering my questions about why support for parental support programmes is being abolished. Supporting parents should be the most basic and most important thing, I think, as can be done in the prevention of helping children and young people not to get into trouble. Madam President, I would like I would like to repeat my question to the Minister: why does the government abolish support for parental support programmes when the Minister says in his reply that the Government's aim is to offer all parents parental support throughout the child's childhood?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-16	Madam President, I would like As Johan Hultberg mentions, for example, a new Social Services Act, I would like to say that the work that has begun and will be completed, at least in the sense that the report is being submitted by the inquiry, shows that the government is on that ball in the same way in June 2020. Of course, it takes time to investigate the whole Social Services Act, but to do so from a preventive point of view I think will be important, and I hope that it will also be a useful basis and subject to action and not just for debate. I do not believe that there is anyone who does not think that we should work preventively, and to really ensure that social services are given room for this is very important. Digitisation and AI, I think, when Johan Hultberg describes it, are things that can be used with simplicity without needing staff when, for example, paying out support. These are parts that the government is looking at and which I assume the municipalities are looking at, as well as looking at each other. I also assume that the Swedish Municipalities and County Council as a member organisation will ensure that they spread knowledge about this and that they help their members to pursue such a development. I take a very positive view of that. Preventive work, of course, takes the form of both having a school that works and a labour market that makes parents have a job to go to and an income that they can live on. When it comes to training places and resources, significant efforts have been made in recent years and will continue. Resources for well-being are, of course, necessary if municipalities are to be able to choose to have a better work organisation. Sometimes one can certainly reorganise, but my experience and the response I get is that the 360 million-a-year addition that has been given in recent years – by 2020 it is 150 million – has played a major role in the ability to cope with the situation. I'd like to dwell a little on the skills supply. It's a challenge. We could debate almost any area in both the social sector and society as a whole where there is a great need for skills. Then it is important that we invest in training places to ensure that the opportunity for competence development is given but also the opportunity to study and change courses as an adult. It is also a question of allowing those who do not have sufficient skills to do their job to have access to skills within the framework of their activities. Competence provision is therefore about money but also about that there should be individuals. If we can then facilitate digitization in different ways and other ways to streamline the organization, it is wise. In many ways these are issues for municipalities, employers and managers and managers in the operations. It is important to see how the organisation can best be resolved. I conclude this first response by saying that the government continues to allocate funds to ongoing efforts on parenthood support. Authorities continue to support both implementation and the follow-up of the national parenthood support strategy. The county administrative boards' mission to support individual actors in each county also continues. I would like to give an example of how the government is working to spread good models. In Rinkeby, for example, you have an approach where you work towards parents in vulnerable areas. You do not work to give a meeting or a home visit, but you work much more continuously. During the first 15 months of the child's life, six home visits are made with both family counselors and nannys. This gives parents a much better start in parenting, but also a trust in authorities, as well as knowledge and knowledge that and how to go further in order to get more support when the children get bigger.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-24	Madam President, I would like Allow me to dwell a few more minutes on the issue of competence. I really think the government is too passive here too. The government is talking about training places. But social education is very popular. I don't think any seats are gaping empty there. There are many socionomists trained. The problem is that too few of those who are educated go to social services. Another problem is that many people choose to move on to other jobs because they think that work in social services is too tough and that they get too little support and supervision. Therefore, the Moderates give priority to efforts to provide a better supervision and introduction to the profession. Young newly graduated social secretaries often take care of demanding and tough investigations and take very difficult, many times life decisions. Leadership is important. We want to give better support to social services leaders and better introduction to new employees. As far as the root causes of social problems are concerned, I and the Minister fully agree that the school is central. Therefore, it is also a failure for this government that one student in five leaves comprehensive school without full grades and without eligibility for upper secondary school. Unfortunately, this represents a significantly increased risk of social problems and of falling into economic and social exclusion. It is extremely important to deal with these concerns. The Moderates prioritise, among other things, efforts for compulsory homework aid, summer holiday school for students who have fallen behind and much more. I would like to go back to the basic issue of parenthood support. It is good that the national parenthood strategy highlighted by the Minister is continuing. I have to give the government a little credit; it is also good that the government has developed the strategy. The first strategy was drawn up by the Alliance in 2009. It was much narrower than today's strategy. It is good that the government has broadened and developed it and that the current strategy focuses both on the broad, universal efforts directed at all parents and looks specifically at targeted measures for groups that may be at greater risk of social problems. That's good. It is also good to have broadened the starting point for who counts as a parent. It also looks at the possibility of supporting people who may not be legal parents but who the child considers to be parents. The strategy developed by the government is a good one, but I also believe that there are many good arguments in it that the efforts made by the Moderates and Christian Democrats on parenthood programmes need to continue. In order to achieve the goal that all parents should be offered parental support throughout the child's childhood, continued development in this area is needed, says the Government in the strategy. Therefore, the efforts of the Moderates and Christian Democrats on parenthood programs are needed. Studies also show that parents are not offered the support they are asking for in parenthood. Therefore, the efforts of the Moderates and Christian Democrats on parenthood programs are needed. The Government's strategy also highlights just universal support as an important element. Therefore, the efforts of the Moderates and Christian Democrats on parenthood programs are needed. I think the Minister is still guilty of the answer. Why draw this rather petty 75 million into parenthood programs when you know and yourself point out that it is important to support parents in their most important role in life, namely to be good role models for and good parents for their children?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-34	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg says that there is not much money that the government withdraws, and why do we do so? I think that we need to consider how useful that particular effort is compared to the whole of the strategy itself. In connection with the budget treatment, the Riksdag decided that SEK 75 million should be used for the introduction of a compulsory municipal parenthood programme. The government has seen the need to broaden its efforts. Johan Hultberg is happy to correct me in his next post, but it is enough for some visit during childhood. There won't be many home visits. It's not a close contact. Rather, we want to use the stakes in the way they have done so far. We also want to focus in particular on and target additional funds towards groups in vulnerable areas. There, knowledge of Swedish society but also trust in authorities may often not be what they should be. We know that authorities can provide a lot of support and help. Then it is important that you have knowledge of it. The government simply makes a different assessment and believes that there is no need for a compulsory municipal parenthood programme, but other efforts are needed. Programs are part of what you might need. Again, a broader allocation is needed. I think it is interesting and hope that the Rinkeby model can be widely distributed. I think it is important to start early and understand that not all parents need the same, the same or the same amount of support. We need to use the limited resources we have. It's not just financial resources. That is actually what we talked about in the previous speech, namely competence. The competence is limited. It is difficult to find enough nannys and sufficient family counselors. In order to be sufficient to make regular and recurring visits, different municipalities and regions have to find different ways of working depending on what it looks like. So far, I think it works. Once again, I believe that an important part is to spread the Rinkeby model, if we are serious about equality in health and more equal conditions for children growing up. I'm thinking we can devote the next line shift to family centers. I would at least like to say a few words about that. It's something that's emerging. I don't know, but I don't think there are any regions that don't have family centres. The question is with what density they are placed and where and how strategically they are located. It matters very much that you make it easy and accessible, that you reduce the distance and remove thresholds, not least when it comes to turning to social services. In our discussion here we think that social services are very important, a basic bolt and an important prerequisite and that there is a lot of competence. Not everyone experiences it that way. You can feel that there is a distance to social services, and you may not make unnecessary contact but feel that it is a signaling problem and so on. We really need to work on this, speaking of stigma and other things in our society in different areas. Here too, it is important for social services to be in other environments in order to be able to offer their knowledge and skills to those who need it. Family centres are an important area. In the January agreement between the government, the Liberals and the Center Party, we have also said that we should look at more comprehensive child and youth health care. I say this because children's and young people's health services are sometimes addressed with different types of problems, perhaps mental problems, which can be rooted in a problematic family situation. Keeping child and youth health care together better than today will be an important contribution to making it easier for parents and also for children to grow up better.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-44	Madam President, I would like It's great that the minister brings out family centers! Here is a recent announcement from the Riksdag to strengthen work with family centres, so that they are available throughout the country. It is very good if the Minister takes it to heart. The large differences across the country are one reason why there is a need for municipalities to offer parenthood programmes. The nature of the programmes should of course be determined on the basis of the needs of the participants. It is true that the same support and effort are not needed for all parents. The very point of offering all parental support is precisely to reduce or remove stigma and to show that parenthood is challenging for all of us. It is not a matter for just a few, but for all of us. But, of course, some groups are more likely to get into trouble. Some groups need greater and more far-reaching efforts and support. For example, as the Minister mentioned, special efforts may be needed for people who come from another culture or have children with some kind of functional variation. Then you may need other support and other efforts than other parents need. It also needs to be designed individually. I think it is important that there is general support for all parents, whether they live in Haparanda or in Tanum's municipality, like myself. I believe, Madam President, that investing in parenthood support is a good economy. The total costs of individual and family care for municipalities amounted to around 46 billion in 2027. 45% of these costs are attributable to children and young people. If we can then invest the 75 million that M and KD have set aside, I think we can get many times back in the form of lower costs for social services and other social services in the future. I call on the government to re-priority and not to delete this effort.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-49	Madam President, I would like I would like to underline how new the Agency for Family Law and Parental Support is. It was established in June 2015. It exists precisely because the government well understands the need for knowledge that underpins support for parents. It is thus a knowledge authority for parenthood support for family law and international adoptions, but it is also responsible for carrying out and promoting knowledge-based work as well as providing knowledge and prevention to parents and promoting children's development and health. As late as August 2018, that is, less than a year ago, the government decided on a national strategy for strengthening parenthood support. Parental support is actions, activities and activities aimed at parents that strengthen parenthood and the relationship between parents and children. It can be about providing parents with knowledge about the rights, health and development of the child, strengthening parents' relationships with each other and with their social networks. These may include actions and activities such as parental groups in maternity or child health care, parenthood support programmes or visits to family counselling centres. It may also include activities such as exchange of experience with other parents, discussions with representatives in preschool, school and children's health care or sports association around parenthood in relation to the child and the need for parents to take part in parenting-supporting information on the internet and social media. I mention all this because parenthood support is so broad. I do not think that we should narrow it down to about SEK 75 million for compulsory parental support programmes, but the breadth is important. Based on the needs of each individual family and parent, the range should be broad. For some parents there is a social network. There are differences when you have your first child. The purpose of the Rinkeby model is to reach everyone who has their first child. But this is a work that the government has only just begun.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-53	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me how I intend to ensure Sweden's preparedness for possible spread of biosmitters and chemical attacks against the entire Swedish people. She has also asked me if I believe that Sweden has sufficiently robust vaccination strategies in readiness for a bioterrorist attack or I intend to take further action. Finally, Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked how I intend to protect first-line personnel in the areas of civil protection, medical care and the Armed Forces against attacks or outbreaks of ebola and smallpox, for example. Let me begin by agreeing with Marléne Lund Kopparklint. The changing threat picture of terrorist attacks and health threats places increasing demands on health care preparedness. This applies to communicable diseases as well as other types of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats, so-called CBRN threats. In January 2017, the Government decided on a national security strategy that defines security from the overall perspective required. The defence policy orientation decision in 2015 also resumed planning for total defence. This planning includes strengthening health care capabilities. In August last year, the Government commissioned a special investigator to review the preparedness and ability of health care services in the face of and in the event of serious incidents in peacetime and increased preparedness. The investigator shall make suggestions on how the ability of care to deal with such events should be developed. In this investigation are several of Marléne Lund Kopparklint's questions, as well as possible ways forward. There is ongoing work to ensure preparedness and ability to handle biosmitters and other attacks. There are well-developed forms of international cooperation in this area, both within the EU and globally. Of course, they're central. Within the EU, cooperation against cross-border health threats has been strengthened through the establishment of the EU Health Security Committee. In addition, in October 2017, the European Commission presented an action plan to improve preparedness for CBRN threats. Sweden is actively involved in this work. The International Health Regulations are a binding regulatory framework for all WHO Member States to detect and limit the spread of infectious diseases and substances within and between countries as early as possible. The International Health Regulations cover all serious health threats in the CBRN area. Other organisations and mechanisms within the UN system also aim to strengthen preparedness for various forms of biological warfare and terrorism. Sweden is actively involved in the international coordination of such efforts. In addition to this, the Swedish Armed Forces have a special company to meet CBRN threats. In Sweden, the Swedish Public Health Agency has the overall national responsibility for the protection of the population against infectious diseases. The Agency coordinates the protection of infection at national level, as well as preparations for the supply of medicinal products for serious outbreaks of infection and preparedness for serious cross-border health threats. CDC doctors in county councils and many other authorities are important parts of that chain. The public health authority is also responsible for drawing up plans and vaccination strategies. The Agency is also responsible for emergency stocks of certain anti-infectious medicines. There are emergency drugs for influenza pandemics and other major outbreaks of infectious diseases. As regards the protection against smallpox for civil protection, medical care and the Swedish Armed Forces, Sweden has developed specific plans for combating a possible smallpox outbreak. In the case of Ebola and similar diseases, Sweden has been building preparedness since the 1990s. In the infection clinics in the country there are plans for how suspicious cases should be handled, and in highly specialised hospitals there are special facilities and specially trained staff. To sum up, work is ongoing in many areas to ensure preparedness and ability to deal with bio-mitts and other health threats. In addition to this, the government, which I told you about at the beginning, has set up an investigation into health care preparedness. The study is due to submit its proposals by 31 December 2020, and I look forward to receiving the report.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-63	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Social Affairs for the answer she has given. This is a very urgent issue which, unfortunately, we must take very seriously when the world looks as it does. The greatest fear is that the unexpected is happening, what was said to be unlikely. But in an enlightened society, we cannot duck for the complex threats that may strike against our security. We cannot rely on pipe thinking and think that this is unlikely to happen, at least not in our own area. Society's emergency preparedness requires a broad understanding of what security is. This is something that even specialist areas outside defence and security have a responsibility to understand. That is why I have taken the initiative in this debate. The international development and increased terrorist threats require stronger protection and defence of Sweden, especially since Säpo has listed seven threats to Sweden in the coming years, two of which are threats from violent extremism. The weapons used by terrorists are, to say the least, unpredictable and are to put terror in people and cause widespread damage to society. Strengthening protection is about providing good conditions for those working in the defence, police and rescue services, so that first line personnel have relevant equipment and training and are themselves protected against various potential attacks. The complex threats to society are now widely discussed in international circles. Other countries, such as the Netherlands, Canada, Singapore, the United Kingdom and Australia, are now discussing biological infections at both government and government levels, including smallpox. Smallpox, according to WHO, is an eradicated disease since the late 1970s. Sweden stopped vaccinating its citizens against smallpox in the early 1970s. Nevertheless, Minister of Social Affairs Gabriel Wikström chose 2016 to decide on the purchase of smallpox vaccines for 17,500 people. However, the people to receive the vaccine are not known. In addition, what I have understood these doses will not be renewed when the best before date expires at the beginning of next year. Madam President, I would like According to the answer I have received from the Swedish Parliament's investigation service, Sweden's vaccination strategy against smallpox, for example, presupposes that the infection begins in another country. So we are talking about ring vaccination. This means that Sweden is not fully prepared for an attack with a general risk of infection that starts here in our country. This is remarkable. I hope the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of Defense will get to grips with this. The government must have the ability to think broadly in complex defence and security issues.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-70	Madam President, I would like I, too, thank the Minister for Social Affairs for the answer to the interpellation. I also thank Marléne Lund Kopparklint for a very important and urgent interpellation. At the same time, it is extremely regrettable that we need to have this debate in this House in the Swedish Parliament in 2019. Most had hopes that the biological and chemical weapons would have been relegated to the dump of history by now, and that was also the objectives of the binding conventions against chemical and biological weapons adopted a few decades ago. Unfortunately, Madam President, these hopes have not come true. On the contrary, the threshold for the use of chemical and biological weapons seems to have fallen. We see widespread use of chemical weapons in the conflict in Syria. UN inspectors have identified the presence of sarin, chlorine and mustard gas during the conflict. Just a few years ago, the Russian military intelligence GRU tried to attack the defected agent Skripal in Salisbury with the neurotoxin novitjok. There are also a number of documented cases where terrorists have tried to use biological weapons to attack people. Above all, it has been a case of anthrax bacteria, which have been widespread and frequent. The former Social Democratic Minister, Jan Eliasson, pointed out that the development of biological weapons will be made easier by new technologies for genetic manipulation. Madam President, I would like In other words, there are strong reasons for the government to really be on its toes on this issue and to take more steps to strengthen protection against the CBRN threat. The defence committee has agreed in broad political agreement that the threat from communicable diseases is one of the greatest challenges for human security. There is also strong political support in this House, Madam President, for taking more action against the CBRN threat. As Marléne Lund Kopparklint pointed out, a number of other countries and organisations have done so. Singapore, the United States and the United Kingdom have adopted strategies against various forms of biological attack. As Lena Hallengren says in her reply, the EU has developed an action plan against the CBRN weapons. The central question, however, is, of course, what measures Sweden intends to take in this area. Managing the CBRN threat is primarily a national responsibility. There are a number of measures that can be taken, for example, to deal with attacks with biological weapons. It's about the ability to map and detect the threats. It's about the ability to see the extent of the spread of the attacks. It's about the ability to quarantine a great many people in a very short time. It is about the ability to divide zones and, for example, stop local traffic. So there is much to do in this area. It is also about access to medicines in crisis situations. The Swedish National Audit Office last year carried out a review of the Swedish pharmaceutical supply in crisis situations. It contained very harsh criticism of the government and its authorities in this area. It pointed out, among other things, that there are too unclear objectives in this area and that the division of responsibilities between the authorities is not clear. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs if she shares the Swedish National Audit Office's view that, in the event of a crisis, the supply of medicinal products in Sweden suffers from major deficiencies and what measures the government intends to take to deal with the major deficiencies.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-78	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for a very important question, which naturally concerns me as Minister of Social Affairs and the responsibility I have. However, when we start talking about emergency preparedness in a broader sense, I would really like to emphasise that it is the responsibility of the Minister for Home Affairs. The overall picture is, of course, available. I would like to say that a clear division of responsibilities and very well-functioning coordination nevertheless make the preparedness for health threats generally considered to be good. I will come up with a few specific questions, but the work to ensure both preparedness and ability is an ongoing work. It is a matter of really not leaning back or saying that we finished last year or that we completed this this year; this, of course, is a changing matter that must be followed all the time. Work on the Swedish society's crisis preparedness is based on the principle of responsibility, i.e. that the person responsible for an operation under normal conditions is also responsible in a crisis or war situation. This also means that each actor has a responsibility to interact with others. The Public Health Authority has overall national responsibility for the protection of the population against communicable diseases and is also the authority coordinating the protection of infection and preparedness for cross-border health threats. It is also the case that county councils have a far-reaching responsibility to prepare for serious events in peacetime but also for increased preparedness. The issue and the discussion in this House concerns the use of agents such as combatants, biological weapons. The Swedish Defence Research Institute and the Swedish Public Health Agency have the ability to detect and identify suspected infection. FOI has a broad competence regarding protection against biological weapons of war and other types of weapons of mass destruction. I would really like to emphasise how important it is that Swedish healthcare is strongly equipped to face serious events. It can be diseases in the way we talk about, and it can be terrorist attacks. It is simply a matter of having a strong readiness. That's why the government decided last year to set up an investigation. I mentioned it in my answer, but I really want to underline it again. The mission is to undertake a complete review of the health care capacity to deal with serious crises. It is not a question of healthcare not being able to fulfil its mission today, but of ensuring that Swedish healthcare can also cope with crises and disasters of various kinds in the future. The investigation will, inter alia, review how healthcare can deal with health threats and infectious diseases, but also biological, chemical, radiological and nuclear threats that are spread intentionally or unintentionally. The investigation shall also review the supply of medicinal products as well as emergency storage. Much of what is moving in the discussion here and now, and which concerns the question that is being asked, is being dealt with – at least hopefully – in this investigation, because the issue is identified. Then I would like to emphasise what Pål Jonson was not least about: it is clear that it is very important that we have good international cooperation. This may be the case for infections and other attacks that occur in Sweden or elsewhere. Of course, we must work very closely together. It is both about Europe and about how we do it globally when it comes to needs, for example. This is why Sweden participates in various types of collaborations in order to contribute in the very best way. Finally, I would like to say something about smallpox. I felt that question was a little specific. There are new vaccines developed that can be used in case of need. Smallpox is classified in accordance with the Disease Control Act as a generally dangerous and also dangerous to society. If a smallpox case should be detected, it must be reported immediately to the infection doctor in the county council and to the Public Health Agency. But what happens then is done according to specially developed contingency plans based on what the situation is then deemed to be.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-86	Madam President, I would like We need strategy and clear leadership to deal with these issues in an updated and serious way. It is not enough to hear explanations with the spirit that our readiness is good when there are many loose ends. This is about the security of society. It is about the responsibility of police officers, fire protection and other welfare workers who will be on the first line in the event of an outbreak of an infectious disease. I would like to see the government present clear strategies for this based on the globalised world in which we actually live, not on the basis of a time when people lived and travelled in a completely different way from today. A lot has happened in people's movement patterns in recent decades. The answer I received from the parliamentary investigation service shows that the government's strategies are not directly at the forefront. If the Minister now thinks we are well prepared, I would like to know how the government sees the fact that last year, for the first time, we saw human-to-human infection in England, only two hours of flight away from Sweden, of the appox disease, closely related to smallpox. Was this outbreak discussed at all at the Department? Have the monkey copper cases in Israel and Singapore been discussed at all? Madam President, I would like What, then, is the status of biological weapons today? Let me give you an example. Last year, an article was published by scientists in Canada who showed the whole world how to produce the virus that causes horsepox, a virus that closely resembles the much more dangerous smallpox virus. The researchers had ordered the various parts of the virus's genome on the Internet and then pieced them together into a functioning virus. The publication received strong criticism, as the knowledge can be used for bioterrors. Filippa Lentzo works at Kings College in London and specializes in biological weapons. In an interview, she points out that today several states almost expect biological weapons to return. Therefore, there is preparation for it with biodefence programs in several places around the world. States and terrorist organisations have long been interested in controlling diseases to become weapons of mass destruction. In 2001, the last bioweapon attack occurred in such a way that people actually died when anthrax letters were sent around to several U.S. rulers. After that, several countries began to worry again, and new biological defence labs have been built all over the world. The line between offensive and defensive biological and chemical weapons programs is thin. The presence of several laboratories also increases the risk that different types of weapons may spread and fall into the wrong hands. The threats to society are complex, and Sweden must be at the forefront of the new complex threats. Internationally and at EU level, there is an increased awareness of what infectious diseases – such as smallpox, monkeypox, anthrax, ebola – can mean as potential threats to society.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-93	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Social Affairs mentions the investigation into health care preparedness. I welcome this oath. It is very important not least because we have now taken back total defence planning. There will be a fine piece of work ahead of us in this area. First of all, I would like to remind you that this investigation is a year and a half in the future. Before it is converted into a bill, there is time to go a lot of time. There are many measures that need to be taken here and now in this area. I ask that the investigation in no way paralyses the measures that need to be taken here and now. Secondly, Lena Hallengren mentions the national security strategy. It was presented by the Prime Minister two and a half years ago as a measure against the CBRN threat. This strategy lists health threats as one of eight threats to Sweden's security. The strategy says, among other things, that emergency and emergency planning plans are needed, that there is enhanced protection for drinking water from sabotage and that there is guaranteed access to medicines in crisis situations. It's pretty good and reasonable. I would like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs two questions. The first concerns whether the needs identified in the CBRN national security strategy have now been addressed. It has been two and a half years since the strategy was presented at Folk och Försvar in Sälen. Is there now a reinforced protection for drinking water or trained contingency plans for crisis and disaster situations in our regions and county councils? With regard to the second question, I am opposed to any kind of reasoning which claims that we do not need a strategy in the field of cinema because we have a national strategy. The national security strategy identifies eight threats to Sweden's security. In three of those areas we have broken down strategies. We have a cybersecurity strategy, a strategy against organised crime and a strategy against terrorism as well. I think we would be valiant to also have a strategy to strengthen Sweden's protection against bioterrorism.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-99	Madam President, I would like I would really like to emphasise that when we talk about preparedness, the Public Health Authority has the overall national responsibility. Just to remind you, the Public Health Agency is a merger of the former Public Health Institute and the CDC. I say this because there is a very genuine and very deep knowledge when it comes to disease protection management and preparedness. That work is something that the Public Health Agency really is at the forefront of. I made a visit there myself not long ago. I commend those Members who have not done so to see how far ahead Sweden is in this work. When you talk about bioterrorism and very infectious diseases and so on, Sweden from other countries is used to do tests and identify possible infections. I would like to say that in this way the authority is well placed. Pål Jonson has very specific questions. Maybe they're a little too concrete for me to know the answer now. I would think that both the Minister for Detention and the Minister for Home Affairs in charge of emergency preparedness have a better overall picture when the issues grow from the interpellation that is set. Of course, someone is not waiting for an investigation and meanwhile his thumbs are rolling. It is urgent to emphasise once again that, if we are to make major changes, we need to look carefully at this, as this investigation does. It'll be here in the next year. It will be an important basis. It is an ongoing work to ensure that you are as ready as you can only be for what is unexpected and many times unpredictable. This is something that characterises both the work of the agency and the work of the government. I am not one of those who participated throughout the last parliamentary term. I've still had to tell you how to get the job done. It's very urgent. I can see that there is a very clear structure and order for dealing with crises. We are talking about infections in the form of terrorism and not just that there will be an infection that someone identifies and that will then be remedied. We are talking in this debate about a form of war or terrorism. It is important that the police have strengthened resources, and Säpo has an important job and mission. It is the authorities that are not my responsibility. I cannot describe in detail how they work. The contributions that have been given to the police are very important. This is about the work that Säpo is doing together with not least the Swedish Defence Research Institute and the CBRN Company. Of course these are very important parts. They exist for that very reason. The issue is identified, and we need to constantly move the positions. I think that Pål Jonson may have to ask his more specific questions again to my signature so that I may prepare myself better. But if you talk about this more in a total defence perspective and a terrorist perspective, it is perhaps a little smarter to ask those questions to the responsible government.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-108	Madam President, I would like The public health authority's scenario is therefore isolated cases from outbreaks in another country, and the established principle is ring vaccination around these isolated cases – although it looks like it does in the outside world. My questions remain, and new ones have arisen: how can the Minister of Social Affairs assure me, defence personnel, police, rescue personnel, medical personnel, yes the entire population of Sweden that we have adequate preparedness for a possible attack of smallpox, for example? What exactly is the plan for those 17 500 doses of vaccination? Important to note is that the military personnel in the United States are smallpox vaccinated, but this is not the case here in Sweden. Why is there no plan for who should have the vaccine, and how do you think when the best-before-date expires on it? Does the government address these issues at ministerial meetings in the EU context? Of course, I think it is important to investigate things. But the development of the world is speeding up, and then it is not the time to investigate. Given the tense debates taking place abroad, it is a little strange that in the country of openness, Sweden, there is so little talk about this. It is the Minister's responsibility to raise the issues on the table and not just wait for an investigation. Given that there are still many question marks, perhaps the government should hold a hearing in Parliament on this issue. It is too important for discussions to be conducted only behind closed doors. I hope that this debate will be the beginning of good cooperation, which will lead us to come up with a sound and secure strategy for the future on these issues together across party boundaries.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-114	Madam President, I would like I think it will be a strange discussion if we cannot investigate important things because it would imply that at the same time we are not doing anything. It is clear that we need to have quite a lot of knowledge and quite dry feet in order to make any major changes. That doesn't mean we're not constantly moving our positions forward. I mentioned earlier that in 2017, barely two years ago, the government decided on a new national security strategy. It is clear that what we have discussed today is part of such a security strategy. I have also tried to highlight the fact that the Public Health Agency has overall responsibility for the protection of infection. Each individual actor also has the main responsibility in crisis and wartime. There is no, and there can be no, parallel organisation, but this should simply work even in crisis and wartime but with a responsibility to cooperate and cooperate. I know that Sweden is well prepared. But I also know that we need to work on it all the time and that we need to be fast-footed all the time. Of course, we need to be constantly involved in the international collaborations that give us knowledge and knowledge of what is happening. I would also like to emphasise that the defence, the police and the Security Service are not authorities under my responsibility. This isn't knowledge that I have. I think it gives an unfair picture if the Minister for Social Affairs' knowledge in this area is described as the readiness of the government. It's not gonna be fair. On the other hand, with regard to health care, I would say that we are well equipped. But again: I think it would be very dangerous in some context to stand and say that we can handle all the threats that can be directed at Sweden. This is precisely what terrorism and crisis situations are all about. It's not the expected thing, and it doesn't show up when you're at your best prepared. As a result, we constantly need to make sure that we are well equipped to face what may arise.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-120	Madam President, I would like Mattias Karlsson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to ensure that patients with a rare genetic disease, such as the skelleft disease, where the patient group is concentrated in a certain part of the country, will have access to treatment. In addition, he has asked whether I and the government intend to work towards extending joint and several funding to include hospital treatment of the disease in the 2020 agreement on the medicine allocation with SKL. Mattias Karlsson has also asked me how I and the government intend to take responsibility for the patients and compensate the regions of Norrbotten and Västerbotten so that they have the opportunity to treat patients with the disease. Finally, Mattias Karlsson has asked me how I view the main proposal of the pharmaceutical investigation to transfer responsibility for the financing of medicines to the regions. Responsibility for the costs of the pharmaceutical benefits was transferred from the state to the county councils on 1 January 1998. The intention was then that, after a transitional period in accordance with the financing principle, the State would compensate the county councils via the general state grant. Since then, the state and county councils have concluded annual agreements on a special state grant for pharmaceuticals. Medicines prescribed on prescriptions and medicines used in inpatient care have different funding and pricing mechanisms. It is a boundary that is not adapted to the current state of care. These are some of the reasons why in 2016 the government appointed the Läkemedelsutsområdet. It has reviewed and investigated issues relating to the financing, subsidy and pricing of medicines. It is a large area in which the issue of the financing of orphan medicinal products is included. The pharmaceutical investigation proposes, among other things, that the state's current special contribution for pharmaceuticals to the county councils be included in the general state grant. In addition, a specific state aid is proposed to the county councils for the use of new medicines. As regards the distribution of the state contribution between county councils with different costs, a model has been available since 2002 which takes into account the composition of the population. The model takes into account gender, age and certain socio-economic variables. It also includes joint and several funding between county councils for certain medicines that are very expensive and where the needs are unevenly distributed between county councils. These are medicines for rare diseases, for example. The pharmaceutical investigation proposes further development of the system of joint and several financing. This includes special financial support from the state to county councils with unusually high costs for certain medicines for rare diseases. The final report of the Läkemedelsutningen report has been referred. The Government will analyse both the investigation's proposals and the views of the consultation bodies. I am currently not prepared to anticipate that work.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-129	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its answer. The Government refers to the ongoing preparation of the medical investigation. The challenge, however, is that today, every day, patients, especially from northern Sweden, are waiting. They're waiting to get access to treatment. It is a treatment that is already approved and available but that 21 county councils choose to wait with and not use. Skellefte disease affects people at the height of life. Most people work and have many years left in working life, but also many years left as the parent of their children and perhaps as the grandparent of their grandchildren. Skellefte disease mainly affects people who are born, or originated, in northern Sweden. So far, there has been little else to do for care than to comfort and relieve. Many have placed their hope in liver transplants, with the risks involved and with the lack of organs. But now there is a treatment available, which is approved by the European Medicines Agency EMA and thus found safe and relevant for patients so that they can continue to live their lives and not have to wait for transplantation. In this situation, when medicines have been researched in Umeå and approved, for example, nothing happens. Swedish county councils do not say yes or no but wait, wait and wait for one to get started with the so-called trilogues. While Norrbotten, Västerbotten and other county councils are waiting, the patients' situation is getting worse, and the queues for transplants are at risk of increasing. It is understandable that the Government wants to prepare an investigation, but the response given by the Government strikes at patients – against patients who are currently following the debate here, in the gallery of the House, and at home in front of their televisions. I would like the government to indicate that it is not acceptable to postpone the use of what has already been scientifically approved and that the 21 county councils should speed up. The government also has the opportunity, regardless of the investigation, to amend the agreement with SKL so that joint and several financing of medicines given in hospitals is possible. The government can do that without preparation. It only requires political will. Then also the county councils that have a larger collection of patients with, among other things, kellefte disease get help to start treatment. Can the Council of State today give these people hope that the government wants to include, for example, the disease in solidarity funding so that patients get the help and treatment they need?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-138	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Karlsson, for the question! It highlights how different things look in our country and how important it is that we give priority to care and to provide resources both for direct care, that is, for treatments, and for medicines. It is a huge cost, and with the development that we see and the medical knowledge that exists, there are increasing numbers and increasing costs of medicines that we are gradually gaining access to. Notwithstanding the specific question that was asked about the disease, it is very important that we have an orderly process, because it is very large resources that are being used. Whether it is the resources of the state or of the region is actually less relevant; it is our common resources. I cannot help but mention that Mattias Karlsson represents a party that likes to lower the tax as soon as you get at it. Since this is basically a cost issue, a choice has to be made. If it is a question of prioritising resources throughout the country, then, I would say, there is a need for solidarity between parties and within parties. I know what this discussion looks like right now when it comes to screwing the equalisation system at all, despite the fact that there are municipalities that pay SEK 6 more in tax than the municipality that pays the least. Just redistributing to provide a level playing field for good welfare throughout the country is not self-evident. For me, it is quite obvious that we should have access to equal care no matter where we live. Just to explain to potential audiences: If the state were to provide funds – that's not what Mattias Karlsson says; he thinks it should be a sharing of solidarity between the regions – it obviously requires both budgetary processes and priorities against other things. If SKL had a desire to share more solidarity on the pharmaceutical costs that exist, I would be happy to have that dialogue with SKL, not least with Anders Knape and Marie Morell, who are both party friends of Mattias Karlsson. I haven't heard it this far. I think it is important for the state to steer and develop health care in a direction that is also consistent with that of the regions. I also believe that it is important that any changes of this kind, which are still quite substantial, namely simply to share in solidarity rather than to allow everyone to bear their own costs, are heard in the county council sector. I would like to emphasise this again so that it is not surprising: the pharmaceutical investigation has tried to take a grip on the very complicated issue of medicines. In a way, it may not be that complicated, but since today it is about such a large amount of resources – and above all because we find it very difficult to get an overview of the resources involved over the next five to ten years – it is a delicate task to deal with that report and ensure that we make it, to the best of our ability, to land in a way that makes our regions and county councils better able to operate an equal health care system. I have no specific information to give on this issue which differs from the answer I gave. It is simply an agreement on the pharmaceutical budget that applies, where the state today has costs of just over SEK 30 billion.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-145	Madam President, I would like The Government refers to my moderate colleagues in SKL and to the views of different parties on tax rates. I do not want to believe that the Government is using this debate to try to score cheap political points while people are waiting for an approved treatment. In fact, it is the government that is the state party in terms of joint and several financing and use of the pharmaceutical budget. Let me also make it clear that healthcare is doing a great job in many ways. But it does not help when the county councils through the so-called NT Council do not open the door to the treatment. It is a matter of treatment for sickness, which radically changes the conditions so that people are helped to live a longer and better life, which after years of study has lived up to the demands of the authorities for efficiency and safety. State-owned TLV was completed with its positive assessment at the end of last year, but the Swedish county councils' NT council chose on 16 April this year, without even talking to patient associations and pharmaceutical companies, to ask county councils to wait with treatment – a wait that will cost lives. Of course, there are signs that the county councils now intend to start talking, but the fact remains: Every day is a lost day for these patients. I think the government has a responsibility to help county councils start with the treatment. What is the Government prepared to do to speed up handling so that treatment is possible?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-149	Madam President, I would like No, Mattias Karlsson, I'm not trying to score any cheap points. I can only note that in the field of pharmaceuticals, the government has costs of approximately SEK 30 billion, costs that have increased by 7-8 percent annually in recent years, while the county councils have, according to an agreement that has been in existence since 1998, costs of just under SEK 8 billion. Just changing this is, of course, a major decision, even though we are only making a joint distribution of this EUR 8 billion. Instead of allowing each region to charge its costs for what is prescribed in hospitals, it would thus be shared between county councils. The whole point from Mattias Karlsson's side is, I also think, to make sure that it is distributed in a different way, which means that there are both winners and losers. Doing so within the framework of a system with that much resources is not so easy, because it can of course also have the opposite effect. There may as well be someone in another region who can therefore not get their medicines because the region has lost money. I think it is important that we have rules of play. Then you can think different things about them, but it is important that we have rules of the game that do not allow billions to move between county councils very easily. That is why the municipal levelling system has been investigated and consulted and will be handled wisely. That is also why the medical investigation has been carried out and its report has been referred to. We continue to really consider how to deal with the results. Because it is not just money that is being transferred. This money can mean access or not to various drugs and treatments. Today, it is the NT Council within SKL that decides which pharmaceutical groups should be included in the joint and several funding. There are a number of shortcomings in this – I emphasise that. That is also why the medical investigation has had to look at this. However, this does not mean that it is easy to correct, even though it is obvious that the shortcomings are being seen. There are a number of questions to really think about. To get to grips with the question that Mattias Karlsson is asking – although I may not be able to comment specifically on the disease – we can talk about rare diagnoses and the agreements that exist with SKL. Rare diseases are often incurable and require lifelong care and treatment. Yet there are many of these diseases where the knowledge is very poor and where accessibility varies across the country. Against this background, a long-term focus on the treatment and treatment of rare diseases was decided by an agreement between the government and SKL as late as last year. There, the parties agree that the goal must be that the treatment is long-term and that it can continue, but that it also creates the conditions for an accessible care with the patient at its centre. In this context, it is important to have programme structure, to strengthen and develop national coordination, to increase patient perspective and also to increase knowledge management in healthcare. I am aware that this is not a simple or quick answer, and people listening to this debate may be hoping for another. But I would like to emphasise once again: the state has costs of 30 billion, the county council of 8 billion. There is a system for the distribution of these costs. Should we easily change this, we change the rules of the game quite properly for the county councils and for all the work they do with primary care, cancer care and all the procedures, psychiatry and so on. This is all connected, and it is very large resources. We must ensure that this is a long-term approach. However, I firmly believe that if SKL has an interest in changing the system of joint and several distributions between the county councils' pharmaceutical costs, Marie Morell and Anders Knape, who are in the leadership of the Medical Delegation, would have the opportunity to point this out.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-159	Madam President, I would like Today, about 350 people in Sweden carry this disease, of which about 90 percent live in Norrbotten and Västerbotten. The agreement that the state has on compensation to regions for the costs of pharmaceutical benefits provides for a special treatment for the particular medicines used in the treatment of diseases that are very unevenly geographically distributed and where use can entail a direct and clear additional cost to a county council or region. In this case, it is Norrbotten County Council and Västerbotten County Council. Today, only the rare diagnoses of Gauchers's disease and hemophilia are covered by the agreement. The other special medicines for rare diseases are therefore not covered by the pharmaceutical agreement. It is therefore up to each region to decide whether funding is needed when the orphan drug is needed for people with rare diagnoses, and it is this that creates the problem that we see today where the county council has chosen not to give the treatment. In the pharmaceutical investigation referred to by the Government, there are proposals for joint and several financing, but these proposals do not require new legislation. It is already free for the government to open up for hospital treatment of, for example, the disease and for it to be part of the jointly funded medicines. I hope that this can be in place from now on, but by 2020 at the latest. I very much hope that, following this interpellation debate, the Government will go back to the Ministry and take an initiative to include, for example, the disease of sickness in solidarity funding.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-163	Madam President, I would like The reason why I return to the pharmaceutical investigation several times is, of course, that it is urgent but also that the interpeller asks questions about it in the interpellation itself. I would like to reiterate once again that it is a very large part of the costs of health care that are precisely medicines. That cost will increase. Therefore, it is very important that we have long-term rules of play and that the county councils and regions that carry out healthcare know what costs you have to expect and what the rules of the game look like. So far, government costs are almost 30 billion. It has increased by 7 – 8 per cent per year – thus constantly increasing costs. The cost that each county council or region takes amounts to just under 8 billion, which is still a lot of money. Today it is the NT Council, as it is said, within SKL that decides which pharmaceutical groups should be included in the joint and several funding. It is therefore not my job as Minister of Social Affairs to talk about which pharmaceutical groups are to be included, but SKL has an order for this. So far, the order is that way. If there is reason to change this whole structure, you can imagine that the medical investigation might be the basis for that. However, it is very extensive. It has just been consulted, and there is reason to really think about and consider the proposals that the investigation makes to ensure that we not only land in a way that makes it easier for me to respond to interpellations, but also creates long-term conditions for good and equal care throughout Sweden.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-168	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked the Minister for Finance and Housing, the Deputy Minister for Finance, if the government intends to come back with proposals to make it easier for young people to save their homes. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Part of the government's policy is based on the January agreement, which has a clear focus on housing issues. The agreement states that the housing market needs to be reformed so that more people's needs can be met, the rules simplified and competition increased. It is also written in the agreement that more housing is needed to make it easier for young people to get their first home. It is important, together with the municipalities, to help create a housing supply that meets both needs and demand around the country. In addition to continuing new production of dwellings with different forms of tenure, mobility needs to increase in the housing market, in order for there to be a variety of housing that suits everyone. I would like to mention in particular that investment aid for rental housing has been granted for more than 20 000 apartments and is an important tool for creating the conditions for the construction of apartments with reasonable requirements for tenants' ability to pay. I see, of course, issues relating to young people's entry into the housing market as central. The January Agreement contains an agreement on a tax reform. This will help, among other things, to improve the functioning of the housing market and reduce household indebtedness. Such a review may provide an opportunity to create long-term sustainability and stability in the housing market. Here it is important to think of the housing market as a whole. At this stage, some details of the tax reform have not been frozen, but I am convinced that all issues will come up on the table.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-172	Madam President, I would like It is of course nice that the Minister for Finance takes the time to discuss housing savings for young people. This shows the seriousness and the fact that the Minister thinks it is an important issue, which honours the Minister. For me, this is a question of over 100 000 young people still not having their first place of residence. Of these young people, four out of ten want to own their own house in a villa. The question also applies to how we want young people to look at their finances. I believe that we should try to get our young people to look at their economy in the long term, to put away something that is economically good later and to see savings as an investment for financial stability for the future. We know that the housing that benefits young people most during their lifetime is their own home. It is the cheapest, economically most stable and also the most socially stable. While surveys show that nine out of ten young people want to own their own housing in the future, it should be the job of every politician to promote housing policy. With the prevailing price situation, it is a huge step for young people to be able to own their own home. We place high demands on our own contribution through the mortgage ceiling, which makes it very difficult for anyone to save up for a stake. I believe that many young people cannot afford to save for the effort that is needed entirely by their own efforts, but the state would have to demonstrate the good of saving. Since you do not see the possibility of saving up for the bet yourself, the drive to save can also be drastically reduced. In order to increase the possibility for young people to have access to the first-owned dwelling, we want to review the credit restrictions. We believe that the various decisions that have been made on each other have become too many. A review would mean making sensible balances and reducing credit restrictions. This would make it easier for young people to get advice and to borrow from their own home. We would also like to see an alternative model for amortisation requirements and debt-to-GDP ceilings where, instead of imposing high demands on households, higher requirements are imposed on banks' mortgage portfolios. That said, we also believe that the state, with the help of housing savings, could help all young people to save for their own living. We need to get our young people to save more, and what would be better than saving for their own accommodation? We are quite alone in not having an incentive to save for their accommodation. Savings also prepares young people for the fact that once they have bought their accommodation, it becomes natural to amortise the mortgage. Creating incentives for savings is not something the government is best at. Instead, the tax on savings was increased twice during the last parliamentary term. We Christian Democrats would like to introduce favourable housing savings as a pre-selection option for all young people between 18 and 34 years of age with income from employment where a tax deduction is included. This shows that the state thinks savings are good, especially savings for housing. Saving would be aimed at almost all young people aged 18 to 34, which we believe is necessary for increased savings in the country as a whole among young people. Would this cost the State in loss of revenue? Of course; but it would be with the aim of providing a stable economy for the individual in the long term. The introduction of housing saving benefits the state, youth and housing. Is the Minister of Finance prepared to introduce a similar system to the one I am sketching? What obstacles does the Minister of Finance see to the introduction?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-184	Madam President, I would like The housing shortage is a major problem that hampers Sweden's development. It is about young people's opportunities to leave home, not least their opportunities to move to where there is education, whether they have entered an education, or where they have got a job. It is also about the possibility of moving away from home and becoming an adult in the way that your own home entails. The housing shortage is a major problem. A major problem is also the high house prices. Why are there housing shortages and so high housing prices? This is because there are more people looking for housing than there are housing, so there is a shortage of housing. What is the most important thing to do? Well, that's making sure there's more building. During the last parliamentary term, the government took important steps to facilitate and speed up the construction processes in various ways, and we want to move forward during this parliamentary term. We also introduced investment aid for housing. The requirement was that, in order to benefit from the aid, housing should be built as people with more normal incomes also have the opportunity to demand. In recent years, much has been built in Sweden. It's built a lot of records. This is good, but it needs to continue so that more young people will have the opportunity to rent or buy their first home. The interpeller asks me what obstacles I see to introducing tax-free housing for young people. So far, we have made the assessment that the important thing is that there are too few housing. To then spend tax money on ensuring that more housing is built has been the top priority of the government so far. Since the problem is housing shortage, we need to spend tax money on ensuring that more is built. That is a priority that the government has made so far. Another thing that would have to be considered if housing savings were to be introduced is how it beats distribution. Looking at the Norwegian example, it can be seen that Norwegian housing saving goes more to young people with high incomes than to those with lower incomes. Above all, saving seems to go to young people whose parents have great net wealth. Clearly, it is problematic to add tax money as a tax subsidy to young people precisely because their parents have great net wealth. It is a problem with the Norwegian system. If you are going to discuss a Swedish variant, you need to look at how to find a good profile in this case. I do not see this in the Christian Democrats' proposals.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-191	Madam President, I would like I can start where the Minister of Finance left off. She claims that in the Norwegian system it is those with high incomes who save. Our proposal means that savings are deducted directly from wages, i.e. that all young people between 18 and 34 years of age who have income from services should benefit from savings. This means that all young people, regardless of income, could participate in saving. That's a good idea. I do not think that we should focus on just one specific group of young people, but on all young people as much as possible. I agree with the Minister for Finance that too few housing is being built in Sweden. I argue that there is a housing crisis when 100 000 young people cannot get their first home, when there are people who need a home that they can call their own but where the municipalities cannot deliver by means of social contracts. Then there is a housing crisis. To then say that investment aid for rental apartments will solve the housing crisis is almost ridiculous. This support does not create a single home. The only solution for investment support is to build rental apartments instead of residential apartments. It doesn't create one more place to live. They want to beat their chests and say that they have done so much during the last term of office, which means that housing construction is increasing. I would like to challenge the Minister for Finance to tell us about three major reforms that you carried out in the last parliamentary term that you think you deserve a pat on the back of. I would argue that there were other incentives that made it build some during the last parliamentary term – but still too little. It has been stipulated that 75 000 homes per year need to be built in Sweden, and this year about 40 000 are being built. I would argue that we are based on the problems that exist in Sweden if housing construction does not increase. I do not think even the Minister for Finance believes that the four points contained in the January agreement will resolve this. Nor do I believe that the Minister for Finance believes that tax reform will solve the problem. There are other things that we have to solve together. I think that housing policy talks are needed with all parties in the Riksdag. The Minister of Housing has told us that he is in favour of that, but nothing is happening. Why are housing policy talks not taking place, the Minister for Finance, between all parties? We cannot create a calm and secure housing market unless all parties are on the train in one way or another.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-198	Madam President, I would like Why aren't there any housing talks going on? This is because Larry Söder's party The Christian Democrats and the other bourgeois parties marched out of the housing talks that were going on. That's the reason.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-199	Madam President, I would like Now I think the Minister of Finance is being negligent, to be honest with you. I have told the Minister of Housing many times during his term of office that I would be happy to discuss various solutions. I understand that all parties are in agreement, and we need to do something together. I did not receive an answer from the Minister for Finance, and that is enough. The Minister of Finance could not tell us about three reforms that have resulted in more housing during the last parliamentary term. The Minister of Finance owes the answer. It would be nice if you put on the jacket and talked about being good and building new homes last term and could also deliver three reforms that made this possible. Then we can go back in the statistics and see if the Minister of Finance is right. I would argue that we need to do more in this area. We needed to do more during the last parliamentary term, and we need to do more this parliamentary term. I believe that housing policy talks would solve the problem. Then there was the question of housing savings for young people. I firmly argue that our proposal is aimed at all young people. The Minister for Finance's concern that this would target some young people is not, I believe, correct. At the same time, I think it is important that young people can have a first home, own their own home, for their life cycle. This is about the economic and social security that a home provides. If it costs a little money to the government, I'm willing to take that cost. Does the Minister of Finance have another solution so that the money can be put somewhere else, so that more housing can be built? Is it good for young people to have their own place of residence and not live at home?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-205	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder claims that if you put on the jacket and say that a lot is being built, you should have an answer to this. Well, then I'll tell him I'll do it. Then let me contradict Larry Söder and say that if you put on your jacket and wonder why there are no housing policy talks, the answer lies with you, when you have marched out of housing policy talks. What has the government done to build more homes? We have put forward a 22-point list of measures that are being implemented step by step, precisely in order for more housing to be built. It's about making more state land available. It's about facilitating construction processes. It is about working with a wide range of measures to increase competition in the construction market. It is a major problem that makes construction costs high. Let me take two concrete examples. We have changed the noise requirements, which opens up new ground where it can be built. In my residential area, housing is being built here and now that could never have been built if we had not changed the noise requirements. In addition, the investment aid, which has now been used so that 20 000 apartments can start. This is important not least for young people to be able to leave home. Let me point out, then, that with the budget motion voted by the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats here in Parliament, they voted in favour of abolishing precisely these investment aid, which thus enabled the start of 20 000 homes aimed at people with normal incomes. Now we managed to get them back in our spring change budget. I think that is very good, and that is something that is important for young people. Larry Söder says everyone can take part in the proposed housing savings for young people. Yes, of course everyone can. But who are in a position to do so? It is those with high incomes, and it is those whose parents have high net wealth and high incomes and can pay in that money. It is taking money from investment aid that goes to all those who have the opportunity to take part in these homes and instead direct it to young people with high incomes or rich parents. That is the Christian Democrats' policy.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-212	Madam President, I would like Ingemar Kihlström has asked me on whose initiative the Swedish Tax Agency has changed its way of working, whether the Swedish Tax Agency can live up to its mission in the regulation letter if they reduce their scrutiny of criminals and terrorists by up to 90 percent and what I will do to remedy the situation. I would like to begin by stating that the Swedish Tax Agency will continue its work against organised crime and terrorism to the same extent as before. In order to combat organised crime, the efforts of society must be deployed on several fronts, and the Swedish Tax Agency has an important role to play in the fight against organised crime and the financing of terrorism. The whole toolbox of bureaucracy needs to be used. The work of the Tax Agency and the joint work of the authorities against organised crime have been and are successful. The Tax Agency takes the work very seriously, and it will continue at the same pace as before. In recent times, different courts of appeal have made different assessments as to where the burden of proof in tax cases should be placed. Due to this uncertainty, the Tax Agency has appealed one of the judges to the Supreme Administrative Court. The various judges from the Administrative Courts have made clear their methodological support for certain tax investigations and the related evidence pending further guidance. This is to ensure as good evidence as possible. The Swedish Tax Agency plays an important role in the fight against organised crime and the financing of terrorism. That will continue to be the case.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-216	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, but I think that the questions raised in the interpellation are unfortunately still unanswered. The Swedish Tax Agency has a key role to play in detecting, preventing and prosecuting crime through its efforts to collect taxes and control tax evasion and misreporting. An example in the near future where the Swedish Tax Agency has played a very important role in Swedish internal security is in Säpo's work to arrest and expel a number of key people from the Islamic environment in Sweden. Therefore, it is extremely surprising to read that the Swedish Tax Agency reduces its scrutiny of criminals and potential terrorists by 80 - 90 percent. Newspapers have revealed that the Swedish Tax Agency's staff at a seminar should have been informed that the burden of proof has been put on end. In the past, an audited person had to prove that a cash deposit was not taxable. Instead, the Swedish Tax Agency's investigators will now prove that the payments do not come from work. The Swedish Tax Agency's own experts say that the situation is absurd, that the possibilities for law enforcement are now being removed and that an increasing proportion of the crime profits will be reinvested in new crime tools. Madam President, I would like The new way of working at the Swedish Tax Agency is, in my view, worryingly in the wrong direction in the work to combat crime within Sweden but also in the wrong direction in the important work to combat crime outside our borders – crime that can also have a terrorist connection. The new application made by the Swedish Tax Agency's Legal Department is based, as I understand it, on a judgment in the Administrative Court of Appeal 2017, where the Swedish Tax Agency lost. However, in the light of the fact that the Swedish Tax Agency has won in a large part of the corresponding cases – data are available at 90 to 95 per cent – the new application appears to be an overly cautious measure. We need to give our authorities and their officials the tools to fight crime. The precautions currently in force in the Swedish Tax Agency do not allow investigators to operate with full force in this direction. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to put the following questions to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson: What is the Minister's own view and view that the Swedish Tax Agency has changed its way of working? Does the Minister believe that, based on the new application of the law, the Swedish Tax Agency can fulfil its mandate in the regulation letter in the light of the fact that the Swedish Tax Agency has reduced its scrutiny of criminal and terrorist cash resources by up to 90 percent?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-228	Madam President, I would like Yes, the Swedish Tax Agency has an extremely important role in the work against organised crime and has also been very successful in that work. From the government we have in various ways strengthened the Swedish Tax Agency's ability to work against organised crime. Among other things, we have expanded the so-called crime catalogue, i.e. which crimes the Swedish Tax Agency can work with. It has also been successful to work across the board on organised crime. For example, the Swedish Tax Agency in collaboration with the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, Trafikverket, of course, the Swedish Customs Agency and other authorities managed in practice to completely knock out the liquor buses that previously rolled to and from the continent and brought illegal alcohol into Sweden. The information I have received from the Swedish Tax Agency is that it takes the work to combat crime and prevent the financing of terrorism very seriously, that this work will continue at an unabated pace and that it has no reduced ambition to investigate and counteract what is suspected to be criminal. It is also important to know that the Swedish Tax Agency's law enforcement activities have powers other than taxation. Direct law enforcement activities in areas such as organised crime and terrorism are not affected by the current issue. As regards the methodological support that the Swedish Tax Agency has been providing recently, it is not normally the case that ministers interfere with the internal methods of the authorities. Legal application and working methods are generally considered to be best practice and judgement by authorities. It is also important to know that this is a guide that applies now, pending the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court. I understand that the Swedish Tax Agency has made it pending a judgment on that matter. Then the legal situation will be clearer than it is today. As the interpellier points out, various judgments have come up with different things.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-235	Madam President, I would like The review of the Swedish Tax Agency's new guidelines for controlling the flow of money on criminal accounts has made several former investigators and even terrorist experts critical of the new regime. Among other things, people who previously worked as investigators have estimated that the new guidelines resulted in a review of only 10 – 20 percent of those suspected. Police chiefs have also expressed concern about the new regime, as the Swedish Tax Agency has played an important role in both police and security police work against heavy crime. As the Minister mentioned, the Swedish Tax Agency is an important partner for the police, and the police now see that the possibility of effective cooperation and action has been greatly reduced since the reinterpretation in April this year. Madam President, I would like The new application was reportedly produced by the Swedish Tax Agency's Legal Department after, as I mentioned, the Swedish Tax Agency lost a judgment in the Administrative Court of Appeal at the end of 2017. However, the Tax Agency has previously lost in the Administrative Court of Appeal in similar cases, and according to my information, the Tax Agency has won a large part of the cases, 90 - 95 per cent, in the Administrative Court of Appeal. Perhaps this can be interpreted as meaning that the Legal Service had an interest in and a desire to change its application and guidelines, for is it really necessary to change a successful method against crime based on some occasional loss in the Administrative Court of Appeal? In my view, it is more important to continue with the same methods that applied before April 2019 in order to effectively combat crime and also to continue with the successful cooperation that existed between the Tax Agency, the police and the Swedish Security Service. As stated in the interpellation response, the Swedish Tax Agency has appealed a judgment to the Supreme Administrative Court for clarification guidance for the future. If so, should we not proceed according to the previous method before the judgment has been given? I believe that the Swedish Tax Agency should be given a clear instruction to return to previous application. If there are legal obstacles, we need to initiate a legislative change as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister for Finance a few supplementary questions. Does the Minister of Finance consider the new application of the Tax Agency to be relevant, or is it too far-reaching in the light of the fact that the Tax Agency has won 90 to 95% of the cases in the Administrative Court of Appeal with the previous application? If the Supreme Administrative Court takes a decision that goes in the same direction as the Swedish Tax Agency's current stricter application of the Act, does the Minister of Finance consider that we need to initiate measures to create the conditions for more effective control according to the previous model? And if the Minister of Finance finds that we need to take action, what is the timeframe for combating serious crime through these sanctions?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-243	Madam President, I would like It is very rare for a minister to interfere in the handling of authorities. It is not a common practice nor is it something that I know was done during the year of the alliance government. The government makes laws, the authorities enforce the laws and courts judge individual cases. On the basis of these judgments, the authorities are adapting their legislation. Then, of course, it is the case that the government governs the authorities, but it is not usually directed at such a detailed level that one goes in and interferes with individual methodological support to administrators in the Legal Department. If we are to have a new order for this, perhaps we should have a larger discussion in the Riksdag about how we think it is appropriate and proper to govern the authorities. There are also, of course, possibilities for individual members of parliament and the general public to ask the Swedish Tax Agency about how to carry out their activities and on the basis of what guidelines. The methodological support in question is pending the judgment from the Supreme Administrative Court. My assessment is that we should wait for it. Basically, the question is what kind of evidence the courts assess – how the courts evaluate evidence in different cases. It is not easy for Parliament to legislate on the fact that the courts have to change their assessment of evidence. So the question is complicated.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-248	Madam President, I would like The IRS, as we both see it, has an important role to play in combating serious crime and also terrorist-related crimes. For police and security services, the Swedish Tax Agency's efforts provide important support in this work. In my view, the new approach, with these new guidelines on the control of the financial assets of criminals and where these funds came from, results in only 10% to 20% now being controlled compared to the situation before the new guidelines were introduced. This is a step in the wrong direction, as also confirmed by criticisms and interventions by police, investigators and terrorist scientists. Sweden and its authorities need to work more actively to combat serious crime and terrorism, not take steps in the opposite direction that is now taking place. I see it as natural to return to previous management and control of the financial assets of criminals, and if necessary, we politicians need to issue clearer guidelines and possibly implement legislative changes to ensure this important work. I hope that this view will also be shared by the Minister for Finance and the Government and that, if necessary, we will take the necessary corrective measures in agreement.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-251	Madam President, I would like What is important to me is that the Swedish Tax Agency continues to be an active force to ensure that it receives the tax contributions that Parliament has decided on but also that it is strong in its work to combat tax crime and active in the work against organised crime, money laundering and terrorist financing. Our authorities have been working more intensively on this in recent years. It is a very important work that has the full support of the government. We have also increased the demands for cooperation between authorities and extended the tools that the authorities have for this. Among other things, the Swedish Tax Agency has the opportunity to investigate more crimes. We have also introduced new criminal offences, including civil records offences, and strengthened legislation on illegal use of identity, to name a few examples. This is a priority area for the government. On the other hand, the government does not – and this is not my plan either – tend to be inside and governing authorities at a detailed level in terms of how their method guide to individual administrators should look like. It is also bordering on the risk of a government of ministers. In Sweden, ministers are not allowed to interfere in individual cases. To interfere in the methodology guide in a case flow is on the verge of what ministers are able to do and not do. So far, the assessment by social-democratic and environmental-partisan governments as well as bourgeois governments has been that this is not an appropriate way to proceed. We may, of course, have a discussion about doing otherwise, but it is a little bigger than the discussion on this particular issue.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-256	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce the structural deficit on buildable land. The need for new housing is great and well known. In my opinion, it is urgent that we create the conditions for consumer demand for housing to be met by a supply that meets the needs, in line with the target set by Parliament for the housing market. It is primarily the municipality that decides which land may be built and how the buildings can be designed. This means, among other things, that it is the municipality that decides whether a certain area may be built with multi-detached buildings or with detached houses. The fact that the share of small-scale building in the production of dwellings is decreasing is partly due to the fact that the rate of exploitation is generally lower for small-scale houses than for multi-detached dwellings. According to Boverket, municipalities are generally less likely to give priority to planning for small houses, partly as a result of the limited availability of land in central locations. For municipalities, planning for multi-residential buildings often provides better returns in terms of new building rights per working time unit than if the area is used for small-scale building. The competition for land combined with the strong preferences for central housing is an important explanation for the fact that urbanisation leads to a lower proportion of small house building. It is often also economically beneficial for the municipality to plan new multi-detached buildings compared with new detached houses. This is because more residents can share the investments needed in the form of streets, water, sewers and the like. In central locations, therefore, small houses are economically competed by residential or apartment buildings. According to Boverket, consumer preferences have partly changed over time towards increased demand for key locations. Thus, the plots provided by the municipalities do not always correspond to the purchasers' wishes as to what qualities a small house plot should have. Despite the fact that many municipalities have completed building rights, these do not always lead to new houses. I can also say that the conditions for building small houses differ across the country. In many municipalities, land prices or the lack of building rights are not the reason why small houses are not being built. When the price for buying an existing house is significantly lower than the cost of building new, many people refrain from building. In view of the lack of housing, I think it is wise for municipalities to plan in a way that provides many new housing. This also applies if the municipality's choice of prioritising the construction of multi-dwelling buildings leads to a negative impact on the conditions for building new detached houses. The relatively low level of small-scale building can, of course, be seen as a consequence of the current regulatory framework combined with the application of the planning monopoly by municipalities. At the same time, it is the municipalities that have the best conditions for designing our cities in a way that is sustainable in the long term. The municipalities thus have an important role to play in creating the conditions for climate-smart, healthy and safe housing. In this context, it should also be mentioned that the Government has commissioned a special investigator to review the possibilities of using state land for housing construction. In some cases, the State can also contribute to improving the conditions for increasing access to buildable land. The January agreement states that the Government intends to implement comprehensive regulatory simplifications to simplify and shorten the planning process, thereby making construction faster and cheaper. An important part of this is to give municipalities better opportunities to plan for new settlements. In this way, we also provide the conditions for consumer demand for housing to meet a supply that meets the needs.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-267	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the full answer! This shows that we think the issue is important. The Minister says in his reply that it is important to build on consumer demand and be able to meet a supply that meets the needs. Let's get this out! We can say that far too little is being built in Sweden at present, as we are unable to build based on the needs that exist. Nor are we able to build on demand. We know that seven out of ten want to own their home. Then we should reasonably build seven out of ten dwellings in some form of owned dwelling. It can be a right-of-occupancy or a private home. So we are a long way from both the housing minister's and my wishful situation. I would argue that the government and the co-operative parties are strongly opposed to the wishes of the citizens by having investment aid aimed at rentals and thus distorting housing even more. It should be borne in mind that, in my view, investment aid has not created a single home that would not have come about anyway. This only makes the market see the benefits of building rental apartments instead of other forms. The Minister says in his reply that more people want to live centrally, and thus the municipalities choose to build multi-residential buildings for both reasons of location and economic efficiency. I have every sympathy for the central construction of rental and residential apartments, but around the centre there are great opportunities to build new areas with small houses. I argue that the lack of capacity to plan means that the municipalities choose to build the larger central areas, and then the rest of the areas will have to stand back. Although it is not the same economy for the municipality to build small-scale residential areas, a municipality should take care of values other than economics. In fact, more people want to own their home. The Minister says in his reply that it is the municipalities that have the planning monopoly and that they are responsible, which is correct, but they do not own the process themselves. We in Parliament can't take our arms out and say, sorry, it's not our table. We must use the opportunities we have. Therefore, I believe that the county administrative board, in cooperation with the municipalities, could identify areas that are considered good for new housing construction. In this way we know that the planning process will not be stopped by the County Administrative Board, and the municipalities can with good hope start the planning processes. This, together with letting developers take over the process and deliver the necessary material, gives municipalities an opportunity to put their resources on what is most important, namely to control and decide. My view is that the costs of land are driven by market forces, i.e. price depends on supply and demand. Right now we are poor at delivering supplies on buildable land, and we are bad at building so that demand is slowed down. Perhaps we can say that we are in the worst position for both of these things. As onions on salmon, we have credit restrictions that prevent people from taking loans to their homes. The most effective way is to put pressure on municipalities to plan more land for housing construction and give them some options to get help with this. Builder-controlled plan process is something we can do. A more stable planning process that reduces the number of appeals by charging them, while simplifying the process, would also improve the efficiency of local authorities' work. Then they can do what they do best, i.e. control and decide. Another part is to allow the county administrative board, in agreement with the municipalities, to identify areas suitable for housing construction, so that the process becomes more stable and progresses faster. The road to more and cheaper buildable land is only through the whip and carrot. The whip is to make demands on the municipalities about how much housing to build – a goal – which the Minister for Housing has also been involved in. The carrot is that the state in the form of the county administrative board points out areas that get green light.
i-14wre1b66V26uvMBHsUaCG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Larry Söder, for the interpellation! As we both point out, it is important that we have increased construction and a better balance in the housing market between supply and demand. It is therefore gratifying that it is being built for more than a long time. It is very good that we now have a high level of activity in the construction. But of course we are never satisfied, but we want it to increase even more. However, it is clear that there will be a better balance between, for example, owned housing and rented housing. The rented accommodation has remained at high levels. When the municipalities are asked about this by Boverket, they point out that this is where there are many shortcomings in access to housing. It points to the rental apartments as an essential factor to keep the focus on. I do not share Larry Söder's assessment that the apartments that come to because of our investment aid would have been built anyway. It's really not the picture I get when I visit municipalities around the country. They say that without this support they would never have been able to build these homes, which are aimed at target groups that now have the opportunity to find housing on the housing market. Nor had they been built in areas where there are otherwise no market conditions for building rental apartments. Our assessment is clear. Without the aid, these apartments would not have been created. These are tens of thousands of apartments that are now coming onto the market. It is essential to look at how we can create incentives and opportunities for municipalities to take their share of responsibility. The responsibility is shared, and we need to work together. We have therefore developed a proposal for a developed overview planning to create a little greater incentive to take overall responsibility. You need to try to work together in a region rather than every municipality working in its small reed. This bill will be submitted to the Riksdag in September. This could be at least a partial solution to what Larry Söder is asking for. I am not sure, however, that one can have a numbered target for each municipality that would lead to the result that Larry Söder wants, that is to say that more small houses are being built. What we now see is that urbanisation and the migration that is taking place lead to municipalities rather prioritising multi-residential buildings, because then you get more housing for the work that the municipality does. There is also a greater opportunity to cover the costs of planning an area and, for example, start building streets, electricity lines, sewers and the like. My assessment is that with such a prescription we would rather see an increased transfer to apartment buildings. I am also not sure that Larry Söder is putting his finger in the right place when he talks about that it is only about access to land and that it is the factor that is limiting for more small houses to be built. The last five-year period has been relatively constant in the case of small houses. Between 8 400 and 12 450 per year have been built in the last five years. This development has been quite stable since the mid-1990s. It's about 10,000 small houses a year. In contrast, the number of blocks of flats has now increased very much. There it has gone up from about 20 000 to over 40 000 during the same period. So there has been a rapid increase. When we have looked at the availability of land, it has turned out that there are a lot of plots for small houses that have not been built. Lantmäteriet notes that there are approximately 115 000 plots, of which 60 000 apply to permanent houses and 55 000 apply to free-time residences. The availability of land therefore appears to exist. There are also 14 000 unbuilt plots of land for permanent houses in the metropolitan regions. The question is whether we should not look at market conditions rather than focus on access to buildable land. Maybe that's a better way to succeed.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-286	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Minister that housing construction increased at the beginning of the last parliamentary term. We can always discuss the reasons for that. But we also see that there is a decline now. We may get somewhere between 40 000 and 45 000 new homes in 2019. I find it alarming when we say that we need 75 000 new homes. Then we are not talking about the form of housing at all, but the number of homes that are being built. I find it alarming. This still leaves young people living with their parents. There are over 100 000 young people who still live and who do not get their own accommodation. I think it's a housing crisis. I have said this to the Minister before, and I still claim it. The Minister of Housing told me that there will be a referral in September that may be a bit in the direction that I actually want. I'm glad to hear that. If you ask municipal politicians and developers, I think you'll be told that it's sometimes the county administrative board that lays a hook for housing construction. Thus, the County Administrative Board makes the processes perhaps several years longer. That is why we want to reverse the situation and say: The County Administrative Board, together with municipalities, can tell us where it is reasonable to build somewhere, so that you do not have to worry about this in the construction process and the planning process. Then I think that you as a municipality dare to invest money, time and energy in this. Then I still believe that the amount of buildable land that exists depends on what market value it is. It is clear that it is more important to use the land in the most efficient way if it costs 3 million instead of 2 million or 1 million. I mean, this is how it is: if you manage to get more buildable land, the price of that land will decrease, and then we can get more small houses, which I think is good. It actually shows all the statistics. Seven out of ten want to live in their own homes. Four out of ten young people actually want to live in a villa. It's the need to control, not always the money. The need must also govern the municipalities, and it is actually a need for small houses in the municipalities. Let's see if it's been still for quite some time! I think so too, but I think we need to increase it. As we increase the total amount of housing, small-scale building must increase to the same extent. Then the Minister for Housing and I can fight over whether investment support has given more housing or not, but I still claim that it does not. Of course, as a builder, you can see what is most economical to build. These are rental apartments at present, as there is investment aid. If the investment support had not been available, it might have been possible to build flats or even houses. There had been the same number of homes, and the government had not had to spend that money at all. Then I still think that we would need a broader discussion on how to build housing. I think 40 000– 45 000 homes are far too small. We must dare sit down and break our arm a little bit about what we want and don't want. We have talked about credit restrictions and things that prevent young people from entering the property market. I think we could agree on this question if we sit down together. I asked the Minister of Finance if such things were going on. She didn't want to answer that question. I ask the Minister for Housing: are there any discussions on housing policy, and if so, are all parties involved?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-295	Madam President, I would like On the last issue, we are now having intense talks in the circle that is behind the January agreement. It includes an active housing policy, and we are implementing all the points that exist with regard to the housing sector. It's about the rental regulations. It is about investment aid, which we shall make more efficient. It is also a question, for example, of imposing sustainability requirements in the construction sector. There are therefore many different components that will lead to a high level of activity in the housing market in the future. Then we welcome if there is interest from other parties too to have negotiations and discussions that can lead to results. We had already invited such negotiations during the last parliamentary term. Unfortunately, they did not result in our agreement, but the bourgeois parties left the talks. Now it is primarily the four parties that are behind the January agreement that are focusing on moving forward. But should the conditions exist, our door is open to holding talks about housing policy in the future. I'm a little curious about Larry Söder's view of who is really responsible for making plans. We have municipal self-government. It is a fairly established structure in Swedish society that it is the municipalities that have the planning monopoly and that also have responsibility for land use. Sounds a bit like Larry Söder wants to loosen that principle. It would then be the county boards that are active. Larry Söder says you should turn the dick around. The County Administrative Board would then come up with suggestions as to where to build. It might be worth asking Larry Söder: Does Larry Söder question local government? Does he think that the state should instead take over part or all of the responsibility for housing planning and planning in the housing sector? I think that would be a very big step to take. This would result in much more conflict in this area than in finding solutions to the future. I am not at all sure that I think it is a recipe that would lead to the result that Larry Söder says he wants to achieve. Then it's not enough just to want to. In a market economy in which we live, it is not only the will but also the willingness to pay that determines what is achieved in markets. The question that should be asked is not: Do you want to live in a villa? The question you should ask is: Do you also want to pay the cost of living in a villa? In this case, especially in central areas, it is a huge willingness to pay, as there are conditions for building multi-family houses, where several can share the costs. You get the cost down per dwelling, so to speak. The municipalities clearly consider that the willingness to pay is greater in the case of residential units and rental apartments than in the case of small houses. There is also a basic principle of equality on the part of the municipality. The municipality should therefore not subsidise certain members of the municipality at the expense of others, for example by selling the land cheaper to those who want to build a villa than to those who want to build a different type of housing. Even there I have to ask Larry Söder a question: Does Larry Söder think that the municipalities should actively subsidise by offering the land at a lower price for it to be small houses to be built, or is Larry Söder behind the principle of equality? Then we are talking about market conditions. There is also a challenge in large parts of the country. There are simply no market conditions for building. Also, banks often do not provide credit for building because the price of the properties, when they are completed, does not correspond to the construction costs. We have requested and received a report from Boverket on how to finance own homes in rural areas and how to develop this funding. It has also proposed top government loans. It is a proposal that we are now preparing in the Government Office. This could mean that there will be conditions for building small houses in more parts of the country than today.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-306	Madam President, I would like Of course, local government is important, but I also believe that we in Parliament must have a helicopter vision. If 40 000 – 45 000 new homes are built in Sweden, it is far too little. Then we must find incentives to help the municipalities to this end. Then I think that the county administrative board together with the municipalities can actually turn the kutting around. Instead of the county administrative board being the one that constantly stops, the county administrative board can say: Here we can agree jointly that it is good to build. Then it is the municipalities that still have a plan monopoly and are the driving forces. As I said before, we cannot simply say: that is not our problem. It is Parliament's problem that there is not enough housing in Sweden. That is our problem, and we have to solve it one way or another. I believe that we must ensure that we give the municipalities the necessary tools. The Minister then talks about the willingness to pay for housing. Of course there is a willingness to pay, but not with the young people I'm talking about. We have put in place credit restrictions to prevent them from actually borrowing money for a dwelling. No matter how much we would subsidise, the cost of housing is far too high. Much is due to the fact that the cost of land is as high as it is. That is why I say: more access to land reduces land prices. Then it'll be cheaper to build. It'll make it easier to borrow. It will make it easier for young people to come in. It's a chain reaction that we need to see. I think we need to see that municipalities together can do a lot, but we also need to help with this. If seven out of ten people want to live in their own home, it is our job to ensure that there is an opportunity to meet that need. Let's not just say it's not our table. I do not have time to supplement the January agreement, but it is frightening that there is actually nothing there about the property that makes me see that we are increasing the construction.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-312	Madam President, I would like We have a building at levels we haven't seen in decades. This is the case with rented housing, which has grown very strongly. This also applies to the owned dwelling, which is located at levels that are far beyond what we saw being built even during the eight years of the Alliance in government power. That is something we should be able to rejoice about together. Of course, we want even higher construction, and this is also something we work for, also together with the municipalities in Sweden. That is why we have a more active housing policy than we have had in many years. We have a January agreement with a large number of points concerning the housing market, and we have talked about the need to review the rental structure for both new construction and the existing but also investment aid, which leads us to build a segment that has not been built for a long time, i.e. small rental apartments with reasonable rents. We have also agreed that we should conduct a tax review in which the housing market will be in focus, in order to improve the functioning of the housing market and also reduce the risks of household indebtedness. This is just a sample. We are also actively working on shortening the processing times at Lantmäteriet and cooperating with the municipalities and also getting them to cooperate regionally, because this often applies to a regional housing market where we cannot have a situation where some municipalities assume their responsibility for the housing supply while others do not. We also have an ongoing inventory of state land where we see how the state as landowner can contribute to the construction of more houses. For example, Akademiska Hus has surveyed its land and proposed 28 000 housing units that can help reduce housing shortages, especially among young people and students. We are also looking at other state land, and a study is now working on whether the state can contribute its land holdings to further reduce the housing shortage and contribute to increased construction. So we have an active housing policy, and I am convinced that it will lead to a continued dynamic housing market where we see a high level of construction. This is something we welcome, and I hope that we can work together to achieve an even higher level in the future.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-317	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me what shortcomings in collaboration have occurred and when these deficiencies were discussed with the Director General or the Board of Directors of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. Lars Beckman has asked me if I am satisfied with Ann-Marie-Marie Begler's work or not, because both of these things cannot apply at the same time. Jan Ericson has asked me how it is that Ann-Marie Begler and the transferred Ann-Marie-Marie Begler have so different views on whether the transfer was voluntary or not. Försäkringskassan is one of Sweden's most important authorities because it is so central in different stages of people's lives. It is when life turns or changes that social security and Försäkringskassan are there to provide security. Sickness insurance is part of social security that the Social Insurance Agency is responsible for administering. The focus of health insurance has in recent years been to combine legal certainty in treatment and application with good support for the individual to be able to return to health and work. It was also for this mission that the Government appointed Ann-Marie-Marie Begler as Director General of Försäkringskassan in autumn 2015. She is an experienced civil servant, and under her leadership, Försäkringskassan has, among other things, strengthened health insurance management and focused on legal certainty. This contributed to the reduction and stabilisation of sick leave, but the government also saw other consequences of the Social Insurance Fund's work. From many different directions – healthcare, other authorities, social partners and individuals – we received increasingly clear signals that the Agency did not give sufficient priority to the statutory coordination responsibilities of the Social Insurance Agency. Cooperation with stakeholders ended and deteriorated significantly. In response to this, the Ministry of Social Affairs conducted many government dialogues, both with the Social Insurance Office individually and with other relevant authorities. Between 25 January 2017 and 9 April 2018, 16 government dialogues were conducted with Försäkringskassan's management. Three of these dialogues were extraordinary meetings between the Directors-General of Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen, which included the need to improve collaboration. Two of these dialogues were between Försäkringskassan and the Inspection for Health and Care. The theme of these meetings was also the need for improved cooperation. During the time that Ann-Marie-Marie Begler was Director General of Försäkringskassan, the Government also gave eight different government assignments to strengthen collaboration and coordination between Försäkringskassan and other actors. In the spring of 2018, however, we were able to note that despite dialogues and assignments, it was not received at the Authority in a desirable manner. We didn't get the desired receipt on the assignments that were left. We also noted that we continued to receive clear signals from other actors that cooperation did not improve. This emerged not least from the joint public authority dialogue between Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen. As a result, the government finally came to the conclusion that confidence in the Director General's ability to lead the Swedish Social Insurance Agency in a direction where we wanted to see an increased focus on coordination and collaboration simply did not exist. On several occasions, the Director-General had herself stated that she could not remain as Head of the Social Insurance Agency if the government did not have confidence in her way of leading the agency. Finally, on 25 April 2018, when I explained to her that this confidence no longer existed, the conclusion was that she could not remain as Director General of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and that she should instead be employed in the Government Office. This does not mean that she shared the government's view of the shortcomings in the management of the Authority, but there was a consensus that she could not remain if there was no confidence in her way of directing the Authority.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-325	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for a clear description of the activities of the Social Insurance Agency and of the complexity of the Authority. I agree with the Government that Försäkringskassan is one of Sweden's most important authorities, and therefore it is of the utmost importance that governance and management work well and that there is clarity from the government in the regulatory letter that is written. The Swedish National Audit Office has made it clear in its review of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's decision support that there are major shortcomings, and it is the responsibility of the Government to ensure in its regulation letter that it works legally and that the exercise of authority provides security to those who need support and assistance. I have asked two questions to the Government about the discussion of the shortcomings mentioned in the collaboration between the Ministry of State and the then Director-General, Ann-Marie-Marie Begler. In the answer, the Government describes a series of dialogues that have been conducted, all with the theme of improving collaboration. At the same time, Försäkringskassan's then Chairman of the Board writes that she cannot recall that shortcomings in the agency's collaboration with other authorities have been up to discussion with the Ministry's management. In a quote, the then chairman of the board says that her view is that if the department had been so dissatisfied with the then Director General that it had given her repeated warnings and considered moving her, the matter would definitely have been raised with the Chairman of the Board, but this did not happen. The Government has stated in the media that the then Director General Ann-Marie-Marie Begler has performed her task well and has handled the challenges she has faced. In a letter to the members of the Constitutional Committee, two former employees at Försäkringskassan wrote that the department's handling of the then Director General and the agency is outrageous. These are strong words when we talk about one of Sweden's most important authorities. I have to say that I do not really get together when, where and how the shortcomings in collaboration have emerged and occurred.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-331	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I would think that there are very many of us who are surprised at, for example, how children lost their LSS during the last term of office. We could read in the media how desperate parents simply did not get the help they needed. I think there are many people who are surprised that in a welfare state like Sweden a woman could die in a toilet in Malmö because she had received her personal assistance withdrawn. I think a lot of people are shocked about it. That is probably how you should see the background to the fact that the Government simply fired the former Director General of the Social Insurance Agency. The Director-General fulfilled the mandate given to her by the government. It is therefore, of course, the government that is to blame. But I think this way. If we had had a Director-General who had not had a fantastic civil courage and told us what it really was, we could have believed what the Government said at the press conference. She said: The mission Ann-Marie-Marie was given three years ago, she has done well, and she has dealt with the challenges that have met her. Ann-Marie-Marie has been determined to work towards legal certainty in the business of order and order. This is what could have been the message to the Swedish people if Ann-Marie-Marie Begler had not gone out and told them how it really was. It could even have been the case that, if we are to understand the Constitutional Committee's report, the government would have given another important Director-General's mandate to the person in whom there was clearly no confidence at the time. Madam President, I would like I think it is directly misleading when a minister holds a press conference and tells us that he has full confidence in the mission that the former Director-General has carried out when he clearly did not have this confidence. Madam President, I would like In fact, one could say that someone has blue-mouthed the Swedish people right in the face. I admire the civil courage of the former Director-General when she has been so clear about telling us what it really is like. I also think it is very strongly done by the former and current employees at Försäkringskassan to tell us what it really is like. In fact, this story could have ended with the Council of State having held a press conference in which she explained this in the way I have said. Another authority could have a new Director-General. And the Swedish people had had no idea what had really happened behind the scenes. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a rule of law. Even a minister and a government must comply with the laws and regulations that exist. I also think that a government and a minister should be honest. This is something that should be self-evident in Sweden in 2019. You should be open and transparent and explain what decisions you make and how you have made them. Obviously, this sentence does not make sense. The assignment Ann-Marie-Marie was given three years ago, she has done well. She has dealt with the challenges that have faced her. Ann-Marie-Marie has been determined to work towards legal certainty in the business of order and order. This statement does not, in fact, go hand in hand with the actions of the government. In the answer we received from Minister Strandhäll, I do not think she made these two things go together. But the Government will have to develop this in its next speech.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-344	Madam President, I would like The interpellations we are now discussing have one thing in common, and that is how the government and responsible minister have handled one of their Directors-General. The fact that a government can appoint and dismiss Directors-General is part of the government's power. But the question is how to exercise this power. It is not strange not to extend an appointment as Director-General or agree that an appointment should be terminated prematurely. This may have to be done in the context of a reorganisation, a change in activities or simply because you do not think a Director-General is doing a good job. It may also be a way of promoting a Director-General to a new heavier position. However, in the case of Ann-Marie-Marie Begler, none of this applies. She was allowed to leave her assignment with only a few days' notice and, according to her own information, without any justification whatsoever. The strange thing is that this coincided with the start of an election campaign and that it concerned an authority that received severe media criticism for tough handling of assistance and health insurance matters, among other things – the latter on direct behalf of the current government and Minister Strandhäll. Madam President, I would like The Government of Strandhäll has indicated to the Constitutional Committee, among other things, that Director General Begler was allowed to leave due to lack of cooperation. At the same time, as we have heard here before, the then Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency Birgitta Böhlin has stated in the media that she cannot recall that shortcomings in the agency's collaboration have been discussed with the Ministry's management. As I said, this has also been confirmed by several other heavier employees at Försäkringskassan, and it goes directly against what Strandhäll writes in its response to the interpellations. The Government also writes that there have been a number of government dialogues – the last on 9 April 2018. As early as 16 days later, according to the interpellation response, the Government notes that confidence in the Director General's ability to lead the Social Insurance Agency simply does not exist. Unfortunately, it is not very credible to take such a drastic decision as to speak to a Director-General only 16 days after a consultation meeting and with this justification. Rather, it reinforces the image that the resignation was entirely a political measure. Madam President, I would like The Government of Strandhäll has indicated to the Constitutional Committee, among other things, that there was a consensus that Begler would leave his position at Försäkringskassan. All statements of consensus have been expressly denied by Begler, who says that the transfer took place against her will. This is now trying to speak away in its interpellation response by giving the word common sense a whole new meaning. It is actually a bit embarrassing to read this particular part of the Government's response. The fact is that this difficult attempt to wriggle further reinforces the image that the resignation of Director-General Begler was a purely political measure. The government wanted to postpone responsibility for the growing criticism of the Social Insurance Agency in the face of a difficult election movement. Madam President, I would like The Government of Strandhäll has a solid trade union background and reasonably knows that Directors-General also enjoy labour law protection. The government cannot transfer directors-general without objective grounds. And if a transfer is to be carried out immediately, special reasons are required. There is no record whatsoever of any such reasons. Ann-Marie-Marie Begler has, according to her own information, asked for the reasons for her transfer but did not receive them. In addition, as I said, the Board of Directors of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency should first have been informed before the transfer took place, which was not done either. No widespread dissatisfaction with Begler as a person can be seen anywhere either. On the contrary, as I said, Strandhäll himself expressed at a press conference in connection with the decision that Ann-Marie-Marie Begler performed her task well and dealt with the challenges that have faced her. It is therefore impossible to find any support at all for the fact that there have been some particular reasons why Ann-Marie-Marie Begler should be dismissed as Director-General. This, too, points to the fact that it was done for purely party-tactical reasons. In order to solve a political problem, therefore, a Social Democratic minister with a heavy trade union background was prepared to violate basic labour law principles.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-358	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his response to the interpellations. Parliament's control over the government is one of Parliament's important functions. It is exercised through various instruments: interpellations, peer review, vote of censure. In that order, one might normally think that it is intended that the parliament should exercise its control power. Interpellations provide the ministers with information on what has happened in a specific matter. If things arise that need to be examined carefully and clearly, you go through the KU to do it properly and, so to speak, to do a thorough review. Then there is the atomic bomb, the last possibility, that is to arouse a distrust in Parliament. The Government will then be dismissed if the Government lacks the confidence of the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like I now turn to the interpellants, and I would like to say that I lack confidence in them. Respect for the Riksdag should be central to the members of the Riksdag. I lack confidence in the moderate parliamentary group which misuses the parliamentary power of control by using too lightly the possibility of a vote of censure against a minister of state. It was, of course, a vote that was also logically lost. Now the instrument of interpellation is being abused by raising eight similar interpellations. Madam President, I would like It is important to point out the kind of nonsense these Moderates are engaged in. The important review of the Constitutional Committee came only the other day. That review establishes that the Government has the right to transfer a Director-General who does not function in the role. Nothing else came out of the audit. I would therefore like to offer the moderate interpellants a piece of advice, Madam President, and that is the Council: contact your members of the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee! Contact them and inform you about the review. Then try to understand that what you are doing now is very backward. So you will begin with a vote of censure. You follow up with a KU review and then eight interpellations – to find out what? That you do not have Parliament's support for your criticism, we already knew. The KU has examined the issue; it has been thoroughly and consistently reviewed. It's already done. And now you're going to interpel – about what? I must say that this is very remarkable and should be mentioned, Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister very much for the answer to the questions on the substance.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-364	Madam President, I would like We in Parliament's Constitutional Committee have had reason to examine this matter, and we have obtained a lot of material. We have had hearings of many people to find out as much as possible around this process. It is necessary to start with the very essence of the Swedish form of government, namely that the government is accountable to the Riksdag for the government of the Reich. Part of the government's ability to be accountable to the Riksdag for the government's board is the power of appointment. We certainly have a way of governing Sweden where state authorities, based on regulatory letters and collective government decisions, will manage different parts of our social sector, but the government – which is responsible to the Riksdag – must of course have the power of appointment. How can the government be accountable to us if it does not have full confidence in its Directors-General? How can we demand responsibility from a government if the opposition prevents it from replacing a Director-General it does not think is appropriate at its post? Imagine, this attitude towards the power of appointment has had bourgeois politicians in the past: When Bosse Bylund was deposed in 2008, it was obvious that he was invited to an ordinary meeting and during the meeting found out that he would be fired the same day – the press release was already written – and the bourgeois majority in the Constitutional Committee thought it was all right to do so. The appointing authority is therefore extremely important for us to be able to demand responsibility from the government. Who else are we going to make responsible? How do you think parliamentary governance should work? The fact that the KU has criticised the government is quite right. However, the criticism does not apply to the relocation of Ann-Marie-Marie Begler, nor to the reasons for the transfer. They are well documented; there are several government mandates for action to be taken, which are then cited as grounds for transfer. No, what we are criticising is the way it happened in a lack of dialogue with the agency's management board. It is the board that is accountable to the government. On these points we criticise the government and Annika Strandhäll. We also criticise the documentation on the matter that exists. There's criticism there. However, the right to move a Director-General in whom the government does not have confidence is central to Swedish government. How else are you going to demand responsibility from the Minister of State in this House?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-370	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to take part in this debate at all, but I think it has got a strange twist. It seems to be more about what the moderate MPs have the right to ask a minister about and not. After all, we must take account of constitutional aid, which gives the right to question a minister. I am very surprised at how the President can allow the Socialist Members to lecture the moderate parliamentary group instead of debating the subject matter. I am here to listen to a debate on the subject, not a lecture on what we, as elected representatives, have the right to ask or not to ask in this House. Nevertheless, I must ask the President whether it is right or not that we have the right to call a minister to account for questions that we think are important – for people and for all the LSS children who do not get what they are supposed to, which is what will actually be the consequence if you do not do your job. I will therefore leave the debate, but I wanted to say that I think it is a very strange debate.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-373	Madam President, I would like By now, as the head of state, I have repeatedly explained for the time being the transfer of Ann-Marie-Marie Begler. It is possible to take note of the information that I provided in the Constitutional Committee and which answers on each point the questions that the interpellants are now asking. Of course, I have no problem at all, even in this Chamber, in this interpellation debate, giving the same answer once more. I have just done so, in the written answer I read just now. I have explained the background and reasons for the lack of confidence in Ann-Marie-Marie Begler and her profile in leading Försäkringskassan in a different direction, where the focus was on the statutory task that Försäkringskassan has to handle both coordination and collaboration. When this should be reinforced, one must of course consider as responsible Minister whether it is the current Director-General who will lead the Social Insurance Agency in this direction. In the light of 16 government dialogues and eight government assignments, which any person in Sweden can take part of, we found that we did not feel that we had received receipt from the Director General of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency in the very parts we wanted to strengthen. That's why we needed a different leadership for Försäkringskassan in the future. It wasn't more dramatic than that. Ann-Marie-Marie Begler repeatedly expressed, both to me in the presence of others and to my former Secretary of State, that if she did not have the confidence of the government in the way she managed the Social Insurance Fund, she could not remain. After preparation and government decision, it was also where the government landed, and that is what I announced Ann-Marie-Marie Begler. This is not surprising – Directors-General have been appointed before, and Directors-General have been transferred and appointed for years. In this case, it was a necessity precisely on the basis that we saw that the people that this debate should perhaps actually be about were being squeezed. It was about children and people who ended up between the chairs of the health insurance. There we felt that cooperation with both external actors and authorities did not work satisfactorily. As I said, it is not more complicated than that. As I see it, I have thus answered the questions of the interpellants in these parts. It is possible to take note of this, and it is also possible to take note of the press conference that I held directly at the time when I announced that Ann-Marie-Marie Begler would leave her mission. There I said that there was satisfaction in the parts about her strengthening the rule of law. I was also clear that there was criticism of Ann-Marie-Marie Begler in terms of the ability to cooperate and coordinate and that this was the part that the government intended to reinforce in terms of the governance of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. It wasn't much of a drama.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-379	Madam President, I would like After all, during the debate there have been a number of conflicting statements regarding cooperation, and that is what my question to the Government is about. There are several former employees at the agency who testify to this in different ways. I find it strange that the then Director General Ann-Marie-Marie Begler was offered the job as head of the Pension Agency – another of Sweden's important authorities – if the collaboration has been so bad and if she has not done her job properly. I find it remarkable to move one Director-General from one authority to another while criticising the same Director-General. Then it can't be about bad collaboration, but then something else is behind the transfer. Ann-Marie-Marie Begler herself has made it clear that she has not left her post as Director-General on a voluntary basis, and she has found no lack of cooperation. Madam President, I would like I still ask the question as to where the lack of cooperation has come to light.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-383	Madam President, I would like It is, as was said here from the pulpit, the constitutional right of a Member of Parliament to ask questions to the ministers. It is part of the controlling power. I find it remarkable that there are Members who question it and that the President did not interrupt the honourable Member. In the KU report, it is clear that it is unsatisfactory that the information provided in the review is so disparate. It also states that the committee should be able to expect that the information provided will help to create clarity and give a true picture of what has happened. Madam President, I would like The fact that the information provided in the audit goes so far apart is unsatisfactory – in bureaucratic languages it is very well put. In Swedish it means something else. I read between the lines that it assumes that someone is not telling the truth. I note that there are two Social Democrats who have a version of what has happened: the Government and her State Secretary. There are two people who have a version of what has happened. But, Madam President, after an official after an official at the Social Insurance Office – non-political officials – have had the courage to explain what is true from their point of view. It's civil courage. I admire these officials, who, of course, have taken a great personal risk by talking about what it is like. Sweden is a small country. As Social Democratic politicians have said here in the pulpit, the government has the power of appointment. There are probably different ways of not punishing, of course, but perhaps appointing other persons as senior executives or whatever you do. Had it not been the case that this civil courage existed, it could have been that the Swedish people's view of the State Council's view of the then Director-General was as follows, quoted from the Constitutional Committee's report: The mission Ann-Marie-Marie received three years ago, she has performed well, and she has dealt with the challenges that have met her. Ann-Marie-Marie has purposefully worked towards legal certainty in the business of order and order... Then Begler could have been the Director-General of another authority. That is how official history could have looked if this amazing civil courage were not in the hands of those who were subjected to this, who actually put their foot down and told their truth. Official after official at Försäkringskassan has joined and said that this is how it happened. There has been no criticism – on the contrary, praise has been given for the way in which the Social Insurance Agency has handled the data. I understand that the Constitutional Committee has unanimously said that it is unsatisfactory that the data provided in the review go so far apart and that the committee should be able to expect that the information provided will help to clarify and give a true picture of what has happened. A united constitutional committee has written this. But, Madam President, I also think that the Swedish people have a right to expect the truth. In fact, I think that when a minister calls for a press conference, the media, the Swedish people and we MPs should be able to trust that what is said is true. That's why I've put this interpellation. The meaning of the KU report and the view expressed by the Government during the press conference on the first occasion are in stark contrast to what has been expressed in the past. These two things are not compatible with each other. I think, Madam President, that we have no answer to that question.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-396	Madam President, I would like It is not enough to have explained one thing a number of times if that account then goes completely contrary to what a number of other people say on the same issue. That is when there is room to ask more questions and supplementary questions, and that is what we are doing now. One can of course have strong views on how Director General Begler as a person was treated by the government, but it is even worse to note that today's government does not shy away from any means of maintaining government power. It has gone so far as to be prepared to violate basic labour law rules in order to try to protect one's own skin. Kicking a Director-General at short notice and without objective grounds was a cheap victim of a Social Democratic government. They wanted to appoint a scapegoat because their own decisions on tighter health insurance and stricter rules on assistance had consequences for people affected by illness. The fact that a government kicks a Director-General on short notice for clearly purely political reasons is something very remarkable in Swedish government. If this happened in a dictatorship or in a less developed democracy than ours, you would hardly raise your eyebrows, but that is something we did not think we would have to experience in Sweden. The handling of this matter has rightly led to serious criticism from the Constitutional Committee and led to a motion of censure that brought together almost half the Parliament. Less than a third of the Riksdag expressed its support for the Government, and this shows that the Riksdag takes what has happened very seriously. I can add that we wrote our interpellations before the Constitutional Committee came up with its report and before the question of mistrust was examined in Parliament. The fact that it then took time before the Government had time to reply is a completely different part of this. Madam President, I would like I never got an answer to my question about the Government's view of Swedish labour law. I think this is a legitimate question for the Government, given her own background as chairman of a trade union organisation. Does Minister Strandhäll believe that labour law rules should apply to others but not to herself in her own role as an employer? And is the Government Office the exception from being covered by the Swedish model? Otherwise, I have another question for the Government. I am so perplexed about this: Is the Government really proud of all the excuses and afterthoughts aimed at defending a serious misunderstanding on the part of her and the government? Or is there still, in retrospect, a feeling that perhaps she and the government should have acted differently, having taken note of everything that has happened since then? The last question I am very curious about.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-405	Madam President, I would like Thank you in particular for allowing me to speak as a Member of Parliament. Jan Ericson, the moderate Member, said that the actions of the Government sound like a dictatorship. Then I would say that Lars Beckman's view that the President should silence Members of Parliament in the Parliament's pulpit is a dictatorship. Fortunately, we have a democratic President who allows Members of Parliament to speak. Lotta Olsson! Of course you have to ask what you want, and of course you also have to ask stupid questions. That is, of course, your right. You have the right to do everything backwards if you want to. But having the right to do something does not mean that it is good to do it. You should not abuse the parliamentary power of control just because you have the right to do so. That is what I wanted to point out, nothing else. Of course, you have the right to keep doing stupid things and doing things backwards. But you have received complete answers to your interpellations. The Government has thus fulfilled its task. You could start doing things in the right order and ask questions so that is reasonable, so it would be more fun to listen to the debates in the Swedish Parliament.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-409	Madam President, I would like You have a right to believe. However, the Constitutional Committee feels that it is quite good that we should base ourselves on what we obtain from our investigative material in the form of written evidence based on the questions we ask or what we obtain in hearings. If we then look at KU's material in this case, we can note that it starts with comments from those where Social Democratic special interests such as the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Swedish Medical Association on how the coordination mission is handled by Försäkringskassan. But it is well sossar who have made sure that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise complains about Försäkringskassan, right? It has to be, of course. As early as summer 2017, complaints were received from these associations. And when the transfer of Ann-Marie-Marie Begler was made, you wrote back and said it started to work better. It wasn't sossar, it was these associations. It is also part of the truth, and the truth is in documents and not in faith. After these attacks, the government gave a lot of assignments and had government dialogues, but it didn't get any better. What remains, then, if we could hold the Government accountable to the Riksdag? Yes, to transfer the Director General. The criticism of the KU against the government in this matter is about documentation and communication, and we agree on that. However, an attempt is being made to use a formula that has made it difficult to investigate the matter, and that is the claim that there is a lie in this. Then you use the arguments wrong.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-414	Madam President, I would like Once again, I have responded to the comments and questions raised by the interpellants. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm would like to know once again in the Parliament's pulpit where cooperation broke, and I have explained this in the Constitutional Committee and in my interpellation response. It's well documented. It is possible to take part in the eight different government missions that were decided during this period of time. It is possible to find out that 5 of the 16 official dialogues were specifically about collaboration, both with the Inspection for Health and Social Care and with Arbetsförmedlingen. It is quite unambiguous, and it is possible to take part in it. What was our problem was that we did not get the recognition of the tools that government has to control its authority that we felt we needed. At the end of the day, there was little left but the power of appointment to continue to want the agency to be led in a direction which strengthened precisely the elements which it felt had fallen under the leadership of the current Director-General. You can't be a coward as a minister, either. When it was found that the Director-General, with the tools she had at his disposal, had not achieved the desired result, one must actually dare to use the entire arsenal. It is also well documented that there were criticisms from organisations and other actors, for example in a long letter, which was also addressed to Ann-Marie-Marie Begler and the Ministry of Social Affairs, from the Swedish Municipalities and County Council and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. It is probably about 3.5 million Swedish workers that they represent. I had ongoing dialogue with the social partners. I was in meetings with, among other things, the Medical Association and received just these questions. I have used the tools available to me as a minister and have tried to do so correctly. I am also pleased that the KU has carried out a thorough examination of this. It is noted that there are definitely shortcomings in the documentation, which should have been clearer, and in the communication, which could perhaps have been even clearer. It's obvious this way in retrospect. But it is also acknowledged that it is a government's right to appoint and dismiss Directors-General, that it has an opportunity to use the appointing authority and must dare to do so if necessary. To conclude, I would really like to point out that there are a number of moderate Members of Parliament who choose to use expressions such as I find it remarkable that this is how it is expressed and that, despite the fact that the Constitutional Committee has not concluded that there is a basis for it, it continues to try to spread that image. I can only say of the purpose of doing so.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-422	Madam President, I would like After the adjournment, I will remind the Government that my question concerned the lack of cooperation that was one of the reasons why the then Director-General, Ann-Marie-Marie Begler, was not allowed to remain in office. I should also remind you that the then Chairman of the Board of Directors of Försäkringskassan cannot recall that shortcomings in the Authority's cooperation with other authorities have been discussed with the Ministry's management and that this has never been on any agenda. The then Chairman of the Board of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency says that her view is that if the Ministry was so dissatisfied with Ann-Marie-Marie Begler, she had been given repeated warnings and that if consideration had been given to moving her, the Departmental Management should reasonably have raised the matter with the Chairman of the Board, which did not happen. My question remains. This lack of synergy is unclear. Where, when and how has this occurred and been pointed out?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-426	Madam President, I would like The Government has argued that lack of cooperation was the reason for Begler's death. Why didn't she tell Begler when she asked for the extraordinary reasons? A united KU notes that no such ones were ever given despite Begler's wishes. In an interview in Aftonbladet, Försäkringskassan's Chairman of the Board Birgitta Böhlin says that she cannot recall that the Authority's lack of cooperation with other authorities was ever up for discussion. Never. Zero times. Madam President, I would like This means that two Social Democratic politicians have a version of what has happened while a number of independent government officials have another version of what has happened – and to them should be added the Chairman of the Board Birgitta Böhlin. It is against this background that we shall see it as a united KU in its report that it is unsatisfactory that such information has not been produced that helps to clarify and give a true picture of what has happened. The KU will of course have a debate in this House on its opinion. However, I note that the responses given by the Government today are in stark contrast to the statements made by independent, non-political officials of the Social Insurance Agency and former employees of the Social Insurance Agency. These have shown a great degree of personal integrity and contributed to the truth of this matter.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-431	Madam President, I would like First of all, let me state that no one has questioned the right of the government to move Directors-General. However, this must be done in accordance with labour law rules. As the transfer took place contrary to Begler's wishes, the Law on Public Employment becomes applicable, and the rules on exceptional reasons for immediate relocation apply. The Government Office first argued that LOA was not applicable as there was a consensus. However, the KU notes that this consensus does not exist and thus LOA is applicable. This is reasonably known to Minister Strandhäll after his long trade union career. There are therefore no specific reasons, and I can only conclude that Strandhäll has thus violated Swedish labour law. It cannot feel good for her as former union president. I can also note that the usually so combatable defender of Swedish labour law Patrik Björck, who has unfortunately gone, defends Strandhäll's actions, which is completely incomprehensible if he wants to be taken seriously in labour law matters future. Let me round off this first debate by stating that it does not help how much Minister Strandhäll claims she has answered all the questions, because even a united KU says that the data provided is disparate and that it is very unsatisfactory. I never told you, and I would never say that a minister is lying. We who listen have to decide for ourselves whether to trust what the Government says or whether to believe in all the heavy officials in the Social Insurance Agency who have given a completely opposite version. Madam President, I would like It is clear that the government fired a Director-General for purely political reasons and at the same time violated Swedish labour law. It is not beautifully acted by a Swedish government.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-438	Madam President, I would like Let me make three brief points.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-439	Five of these meetings were just about collaboration. I can also state the dates and names of the eight government missions presented during this period. If you as an experienced Director-General have not understood the signals, the government may take to its sharpest tool and change the direction of the cashier. This information is also available to the members of the Moderate Parliament. Secondly, Birgitta Böhlin was contacted the day after 9 April 2018 when we had had a meeting with the Director General of Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen – the third of three – and stated that it was no longer possible. I had several deep conversations with her before I informed Ann-Marie-Marie Begler that she no longer had the confidence of the government. Thirdly, on exceptional grounds: we claim that there was a consensus because Ann-Marie-Marie Begler herself said that she could not remain if she did not have the confidence of the government, which was what was announced to her. Otherwise, special reasons under LOA apply. If LOA had been applicable, this would have been a major reason. You cannot even have for a day a Director-General of the Social Insurance Agency who does not have the confidence of the government. In this way, there would have been a particular reason to move the Director-General.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-444	Madam President, I would like Mr Arin has asked me how I can be sure that there has been no pressure while I have no knowledge of any contacts whatsoever on this issue. Maria Stenergard has asked me how I intend to ensure that the Government Office complies with the Constitution's rules on the principle of public access and disclosure of documents. Åsa Coenraads has asked me if I would reconsider my previous position that the media do not have access to certain public documents. Mattias Karlsson in Luleå has asked me how I intend to guarantee freedom of communication and freedom of expression for Försäkringskassan's employees. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has asked me what assessment I make of the consequences for future relations between Försäkringskassan and the Government Office in relation to Försäkringskassan's disclosure of documents and meeting notes and what interpretation I make of the expression AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has also asked me how I intend to ensure that the Social Insurance Agency discloses public documents in accordance with the principle of publicity. Lars Püs has asked me how I intend to ensure that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Insurance Office disclose public documents in accordance with the principle of public access. The principle of public access is a fundamental principle of our governance. It gives the public and the media the right to transparency in the activities of the state, municipalities and county councils. The Social Insurance Agency, like all other authorities, must follow the principle of public access. I do not, of course, have any comments on what information the Social Insurance Agency provides to the media. Nor, of course, do I have any comments on the use by individual officials of their constitutionally protected freedom of communication. Of course, the Ministry of Social Affairs has not exerted pressure to try to influence what documents the Social Insurance Office decides to disclose. The event now referred to is based on an official at the Ministry of Social Affairs contacting the Acting Director General of the Social Insurance Agency to ask what the memos were released by the Office. The question was asked in the light of the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs had no such notes from meetings between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Insurance Agency. In this discussion, the official was clear that the Ministry had no comments on the documents provided by the Social Insurance Office. Employees in the Government Office are well aware of the Constitution's rules on the principle of public access and disclosure of documents. It is essential for everyone who works in the Government Office to respect the principle of public access. Similarly, I am convinced that Försäkringskassan ensures that the principle of public access is respected and enforced by all employees of Försäkringskassan.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-454	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. So I am here instead of Mr Arin, who has unfortunately been prevented this evening. This interpellation debate is essentially not about what happened before Ann-Marie-Marie Begler was allowed to leave as Director General of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, but about what happened afterwards. It is often said that a crisis rarely occurs in the event itself, but at least as much in the handling afterwards, and this is perhaps a textbook example of this. The KU's review, which came a week or so ago, stated that the government must be able to redeploy heads of government if it is considered that the management is not exercised in a sufficiently good way but also that the government must comply with the Law on Public Employment – what was discussed in the previous debate today. And it is the latter that several media have tried to examine and which has also become the subject of this interpellation debate, Madam President. Among other things, the media requested a number of documents from Försäkringskassan in order to see what dialogue has been conducted between the Ministry and the Director General of the management in the process that finally landed in Ann-Marie-Marie Begler ending as Director General. After documents from meetings between Annika Strandhäll's State Secretary and Ann-Marie-Marie Begler were released to TV4, an e-mail was sent on 21 May 2018 from the acting Director General Maria Hemström Hemmingsson. The email went to five senior managers at Försäkringskassan. There Hemström described her having upset calls from the Ministry, warning of serious consequences if meeting notes were handed out to journalists and/or the general public. This was reported by Dagens Nyheter on April 15 this year. At that time, DN also interviewed Annika Strandhäll, who first stated that she had no knowledge of this and then said that no such signals have occurred. The question then becomes, Madam President, how the Government can be sure that there has been no pressure, while at the same time she has no knowledge of the contacts that have taken place. In its answer, the Government now says that the Ministry of Social Affairs only asked the Social Insurance Agency what documents have been released, that you yourself do not have any memos but that you made it clear that you did not have any comments on what documents the Social Insurance Agency has disclosed. Unfortunately, Madam President, I do not know whether that answer makes any sense to me. The follow-up question is: how can a discussion where one is clear that one has no comments is passed on by a Director-General to five senior officials, such as the Ministry warning of serious consequences if the documents are released in the future?
i-H9pQVVtTjEfAuY3q3kwJom	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Today, a number of interpellations are being dealt with regarding the management of the Social Security Minister Annika Strandhäll by Försäkringskassan and its former Director General Ann-Marie-Marie Begler. The interpretations are about what really happened when Ann-Marie-Marie Begler suddenly moved and about the process of that transfer, where a number of questions have arisen. Many of those questions remain to be straightened out. One such question mark concerns the e-mail sent by the acting Director-General of the Social Insurance Agency to five senior officials of the Agency on the evening of 21 May. The reason was that documents relating to meetings between Annika Strandhäll's Secretary of State and the former Director General Ann-Marie-Marie Begler were released to TV4 after the usual confidentiality review by the Chief of Legal Affairs at Försäkringskassan. This, according to the acting Director-General's e-mail to the officials, did not fall into good hands with the government. "I've had some upset calls from the department on account of the fact that we've released this," she wrote in the e-mail. They point out, of course, that we are allowed to do what we want, but that it will have serious consequences for our dialogues/dialogues and the information they are prepared to share with us. ..................................................... In the e-mail, the acting Director-General announced that she would change the procedures and decide for herself whether to disclose documents in the future. This, Madam President, is the background to my interpellation. I have asked how Annika Strandhäll intends to ensure that the Government Office complies with the Constitution's rules on the principle of public access and the disclosure of public documents. Then judge my surprise, Madam President, when it seems that the Minister for Social Security does not think there are any problems at all! Annika Strandhäll's focus in the answer to me is a completely different one. She believes that the Ministry of Social Affairs contacted the Acting Director General of the Social Insurance Agency to ask which memos were released because the Ministry of Social Affairs has no such memos. Let me just beat this out because it is not simply following the line of reasoning. If I understand correctly, then we have a acting Director-General who is so worried that she e-mails her highest-ranking officials late in the evening and reports that she is immediately changing the routine of disclosure of public documents. The reason for this is that, as she herself puts it, she has received an upset call from the Ministry of Social Affairs regarding documents released by her authority with the support of our constitutions. What, then, is the reaction of the Minister for Social Security? Well, she says that the Ministry of Social Affairs is obviously not under pressure. I do not think it is particularly obvious, Madam President. I therefore ask these questions: what prompted the acting Director-General's e-mails and changes in procedures late in the evening? What are the serious consequences of these words?
i-YaWSv2do9LxFZG1LP838hn	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Like many of my colleagues here, I have written an interpellation to Annika Strandhäll in connection with the recent media review and statements that have come in connection with the transfer of former Director General Ann-Marie-Marie Begler from Försäkringskassan. It is a review that reveals some shortcomings because not all the facts are on the table and opinions differ on what has actually happened and what documents are available. My interpellation is about the principle of public access and democracy. These are two issues which are very close to my heart and which, moreover, are extremely important for a free and transparent democracy. A recognised skilled and competent manager who has solved the tasks she has received with good results has had to leave her position against her will. The reason is alleged to be cooperation difficulties. This is something that the Government claims has been repeatedly brought to the attention of the Director-General, but the documentation is lacking in some places. The Minister has stated that she has great confidence in Begler and that she therefore offered her the opportunity to be Director-General, but now within the Government Office. I find it a little strange that there was no confidence in the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. Without the missing documentation on the alleged cooperation difficulties, Strandhäll's argumentation becomes to say the least illogical and somewhat inconsistent. Madam President, I would like Regardless of the vote of censure or the KU review, the Government is still a minister. As there are still some questions surrounding the handling of the previous Director General's transfer from the Social Insurance Agency, the debate continues here and now. It is not strange or remarkable, as we have heard from previous speakers here, that we are doing this. It is democracy and a right that we elected MPs have. If an opposition had not done this, it would have been both remarkable and undemocratic. Actually, we don't want it that way. Opinions and discussions on the climate of cooperation between government and Director-General, or Directors-General, should have been recorded in commemoration notes. But these shine with their absence. I asked the Government a question about precisely the scrutiny and documentation made by the media. It has emerged that the Minister has put pressure on the current Director-General and the officials of the Social Insurance Office not to disclose notes. The Swedish principle of public access is an important cornerstone of democracy. It is a principle that has served Sweden well for a long time and which hopefully will serve democracy well for many years to come. It is therefore serious when it appears that the current minister is trying to withhold not only elected politicians but also the journalists' ability to review the minister's duties. It is clear from both this debate and the previous debate in this House that the Minister weighs her words on a gold scale and that she does not respond to the criticism or answer to the questions that exist about the disposal of the former Director-General of the Social Insurance Agency. Madam President, I would like The question remains: can the Government guarantee that journalists have free access to public material from the Social Insurance Agency in the case of Ann-Marie-Marie Begler's cooperation problem?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-481	Madam President, I would like My interpellation is about how the Government intends to work to ensure freedom of communication and freedom of expression for the Social Insurance Agency's employees according to the media image that has described that they would feel silenced. In the aftermath of media attention being paid to the movements of the former Director General of Försäkringskassan Ann-Marie Begler, information has also emerged that acting Director General of Försäkringskassan would then have been warned of serious consequences if the Försäkringskassan in the future discloses documents and meeting notes requested by journalists. When the documents were released at the request of TV4 and other media, someone at the Ministry of Social Affairs chose to call the acting Director General of the Social Insurance Agency. What was really said in that conversation has not been made clear. What we do know, however, is that the call is to some extent described in the email sent by the acting Director General on 21 May 2018 at night and as interpellanter here has described. There she writes that upset conversations had come from the Ministry of Social Affairs due to the material that had been published. Threats had been raised about serious consequences for the release of the dialogue between the Government Office and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. From now on, the appointed Director-General intended to decide for himself what was left out and not. In Dagens Nyheter, however, she tried to play down the significance of the Ministry's views. They were not, as she put it, government control in any negative way. But according to Expressen, her communications director, who handled TV4's request, ended a few months later. When Minister Strandhäll is asked about the Ministry's attempt to silence the Social Insurance Agency, she says that in this case she has no knowledge of the pressure that the Government Office should have exerted. At the same time, however, she may feel that any such signals have not come from the department. The government therefore knows nothing about the attempts to cover up the reasons for the firing of Begler, but she knows that they have not happened. To me, the two claims indicate that they are not interrelated. They can't be right. Was the Government ever in contact with the acting Director-General to examine how she had experienced the conversation with the Ministry official? Madam President, I would like No matter what is said or done, or what is true or not true, a picture has now been spread in the media that the department has tried to influence the authority not to disclose material. In my opinion, the Government must be clear that it is free to disclose unclassified material – if requested. It is not anyone who requires any kind of stamp of approval from either a minister or an official in a department in order to be able to release material. In Sweden, the principle of public access applies, and government employees also have the right to anonymously provide material to journalists, such as whistleblowers. There should be no doubt that the principle of public access continues to apply in Sweden. Given that there has been a media image of the Ministry trying to silence the Authority, is there not reason for the Government to clarify this issue to the authorities for which she is responsible?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-488	Madam President, I would like We stand here today just a week after the KU has dotted Minister Strandhäll. KU's review points, among other things, to the apparent lack of documentation of what has happened at the Ministry of Social Affairs. In this context, I do not think it is surprising that there are doubts about the Government's view of what is right and what is wrong. With regard to the question of possible pressure from the Ministry of Social Affairs not to disclose documents to the media, there are undoubtedly reasons for scepticism. In DN in April, a conversation between the newspaper and the government was referred to. She felt there was completely uninvited in history. Apparently, she had no idea that there would have been any pressure not to disclose any documents. At the same time, she wanted to make it clear that no such signals would have come from the Ministry of Social Affairs. This is where I see one of the problems with the government's way of dealing with what is right and what is wrong. How can one be completely unaware of what has happened and at the same time be absolutely convinced that no errors have been made? When I hear the answer to my question today, it is clear that Minister Strandhäll does not intend to take any steps whatsoever to ensure that this is not repeated, despite obvious lack of credibility. Inga-Britt-Britt Ahlenius, previously at the Swedish National Audit Office, stated only last Friday that the most remarkable thing is that for us outside the department there is absolutely no documentation. I wonder how one can choose to move a Director-General from one authority to another without even keeping memos to prove what has actually happened – especially when one day one claims to have confidence in Begler in order to claim the next that one lacks confidence in her. At the same time, they are obliged to appoint her new General Director of the Pensions Agency. What is the signal you want to send to the citizens with that appointment? To sum up, my first question remains. How does the Government intend to ensure that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Insurance Office disclose documents in accordance with the principle of public access? Furthermore, I wonder how the Government intends to ensure that there is at all documentation describing the grounds for concern that exist when decisions are taken.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-494	Madam President, I would like We all agree in this House that the principle of public access is one of the finest principles we have here in Sweden and that we need to care for it. However, it does not mean that anyone has the right to access internal work material established by public authorities. This is governed by the freedom of the press and the principle of publicity. Work material does not constitute documents which, according to our principle of public access, citizens have the right to access automatically. We need to safeguard the principle of public access, but we also need to tell the truth about what it actually means. Here the Moderates are trying to push the limits of what our principle of public access means. This issue, too, will be examined in a reasonable manner by the Constitutional Committee in order to clarify the matter. From our side we think that this indicates nothing but pure desperation and pure populism on the part of the Moderates. The government ability of the Moderates seems to be a thing of the past. You made a hasty decision when you aroused mistrust of Minister Strandhäll, and now you're trying to save face. That's not good enough.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-499	Madam President, I would like Of course, as I say in my reply, the principle of public access is a fundamental part of Sweden's governance. That's why we should also have some order and care for it. For me as the responsible minister at the Ministry of Social Affairs, it is absolutely self-evident that the officials who work there, as well as the authorities I am responsible for, comply with current Swedish legislation. Something else is completely unthinkable. So it is quite obvious to me that there had, of course, been no pressure. In addition, as I go deeper on the issue, I can say that this is a matter of talks between the authority and the department. This is a rather common conversation between the official in question and the Director-General in this case. It's a continuous contact. It is about what kind of memos have been released with the Social Affairs Department logo on because we ourselves have not established any of them. It turns out that it is an individual official at Försäkringskassan who has made his own notes on the Social Affairs Department's agenda. Of course, it caused great confusion when this was released, both at the Ministry of Social Affairs and among the journalists who requested the documents. Basically, it is obvious that there must be transparency. Nor was there any strangeness from our responsible official in this case when we went deeper on the matter. She also made it clear that she had no memory whatsoever of the fact that this was an upset conversation. On the contrary, it was a conversation that was no different from others. She was also clear, just as is reproduced, that it goes without saying that there are no comments on which documents are disclosed by the Social Insurance Agency. It's got to try that. Of course, what the acting Director-General has written in his e-mail cannot be over-examined or reconsidered, but in this case the responsible acting Director-General will have to answer for himself – as she has done. It was recounted here just now. I remain there and very much welcome a KU review of this issue.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-506	Madam President, I would like In the aforementioned interview with DN, the Minister first stated that she had no knowledge of contacts and then that no signals have been sent. I still don't get it right. It can be said that the Director-General himself will be able to explain it, but how can a Director-General misinterpret such a message so that it will have the effect of having serious consequences if the documents are released? The DN article says that on the day the email was sent, Försäkringskassan had a management group meeting, where the need for confidential information exchange with the Ministry of Social Affairs was discussed. After the discussion with the Ministry, the procedures for the Social Insurance Office were changed, and the acting Director General was to decide for himself which documents were to be released. That is why I wonder, Madam President: could it be that the Ministry has pointed out that it cannot formally comment on which documents are released, but that it has wished that documents which have been disclosed should instead be referred to as work material, which would then not have been disclosed? That is to say, in practice, opinions have been expressed, but they have been formulated in a different way, which makes it more cosmetically attractive, but in practice is just as serious?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-510	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer – again! I understand that there will be a long afternoon and evening here for the Government. First of all, I would like to turn to what Ida Karkiainen said in her speech. She blamed us Moderates for desperation and populism. What is really at issue here is, of course, opposition work, and, as my colleagues have said, it is our duty to do so. We, too, look forward to a KU review, but that does not mean that the scrutiny that we as individual Members are able to carry out should not be carried out. Furthermore, Ida Karkiainen said that this could call into question the ability of the Moderates to rule. But this is not really what it is about here, but what it is about is the government capacity of the Social Democrats. Surely we should stick to the subject. I thank the Minister for clarifying why some of the six documents previously distributed to DN and TV4 are written on the Government Office's stationery, for that is a matter of real question. So the government has responded to this. But the fact that there are no documents about the Ministry of Social Affairs is remarkable in itself. Since these interpellations were submitted, the Constitutional Committee, as mentioned earlier, has made serious criticism of Annika Strandhäll on several points in connection with the resignation of Ann-Marie-Marie Begler. One of the points relates precisely to the lack of documentation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also notes that no documentation on the transfer has been available. In the committee's view, consideration should also be given to the documentation that might be needed for the dialogue with the Head of the Authority when considering whether there are sufficient grounds for separating a Head of the Authority from his/her position. The Government is responsible for these deficiencies, says the KU. Madam President, I would like The fact that the acting Director-General has rapidly changed the procedures for the disclosure of documents to the Social Insurance Office has had consequences for which legal assessments have been made to the authorities in relation to the disclosure of public documents. After that, DN has requested notes of meetings and minutes from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency for all meetings between the acting Director General and the Government Office but has been refused. Försäkringskassan has now chosen to disclose notices but no protocols. When similar requests were made before the famous email arrived, the legal assessment was different. From this I find it difficult to draw any other conclusion than the fact that the discussion the Ministry of Social Affairs had with the acting Director-General has actually brought pressure. I mean the same thing that Mattias Karlsson said here before: This should reasonably give rise to some form of self-criticism on the part of the Government.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-521	Madam President, I would like Was there not, when the Government heard and saw what the acting Director General of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency wrote in his email to her employees, any reason to contact her and ask what made her understand the call in that way and had to write to her immediate employees that there had been threats of serious consequences or that there would be consequences for the relationship with the Ministry? Have you, either as Minister of Social Affairs or your successor, been in contact with the acting head of authority and asked if she understood it that way or whether she had turned the truth to clarify something to her associates? And what are the consequences for the temporary head of authority's employment in the agency if this is carried on so far? Surely there is some responsibility for the department and the head of the department for the authorities to express themselves in a good way and for the consequences if you do not comply with the laws and regulations that exist?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-523	Madam President, I would like Having listened to the debate here tonight, I am a little concerned. Of the 349 members of the Riksdag, 172 have no confidence in Minister Strandhäll. It is strikingly close to half of Parliament's members. At least then I would be interested in trying to restore some kind of confidence among these 172. It is clear that we do not share the view of what policy we should have, and that is not why we are here today. Instead, it is about how the Government has performed its office in relation to Swedish legislation. The answer I hear from the Government only describes what it looks like today. Unfortunately, this is the problem – we do not feel safe about what it looks like today. We do not think that current management creates the confidence that we believe the Ministry of Social Affairs should be able to give. The fact that there are doubts among the public about how the media's questions about Begler have been handled is not surprising given the recent headlines. Would it not be important, in this context, to show the public and the parliament that they take criticism seriously and that the same story will not be repeated in the future? My question, Madam President, is therefore: does the Government not see a problem in the public's lack of confidence in the Ministry of Social Affairs, and should it not be urgent to restore that confidence?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-527	Madam President, I would like Maria Stenergard refers to the KU's review and our position, and I would just like to remind the Members of this House that the demands for documentation on such a procedure could not be upheld either with regard to the transfer of Bosse Bylund by the Alliance Government, for example. It is important that we agree on how we handle the mobility instrument. This is not what this interpellation debate is about, but since the demands for documentation came up, I would like to remind you that there is no requirement to document how a transfer takes place. If one may suspect that it may be helpful in any review or that there will be discussion or disagreements, it may be useful to document, but there is no such requirement. It is important that we know about this. Nor do we know whether we want to impose such demands on a government – to write down why and on what grounds at any transfer of a Director-General. This is not part of the movement instrument. I hope that, regardless of the government that governs, we can agree on the basic principles of the mobility instrument. This is important for our democracy.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-530	Madam President, I would like For my part, I have tried to be very clear about the situation raised by the interpellants by clearly and clearly giving a background to the conversation that was apparently taking place, the context in which it was conducted and why the question was raised. My starting point is still, as I also stated immediately afterwards when I was asked about this, that we in the Government Office naturally uphold the principle of public access and comply with the current Swedish legislation. There is nothing in the tasks on the table today that points in any other direction. That is why, as I have also said, I welcome a KU review of this issue. It is also incredibly important to emphasise what Ida Karkiainen says. As far as the documentation on the changed tasks of Ann-Marie-Marie Begler is concerned, we have handled it in the same way as previous documentation has been handled in the case of transfers of Directors-General. If, however, in the light of the review that the KU has now carried out, we should, for the future, make other positions on the part of the Government Office, we shall of course make those considerations. I have also made it clear that we naturally take on board the criticisms made by the KU on this issue. I also believe that it is fundamentally important to note this. In fact, discussions were held in the debate on public confidence in the Ministry of Social Affairs. For the past week, we have had a clear KU review, which, among other things, the Moderates did not intend to wait. Instead, there was a suspicion in Parliament before the cards were on the table. The review clearly points out that there are certain shortcomings, including those I have just mentioned in relation to documentation and communication. There is nothing in the KU review that is now done that indicates, for example, that untrue data would have been brought to the KU. This was made clear in the previous interpellation. I therefore also think it is important, since we are where we are, that we be careful with the debate and the words and how we express ourselves. Neither the Ministry of Social Affairs nor I as responsible Minister of State have any ambitions other than to be fully transparent and comply with applicable Swedish legislation. This is absolutely self-evident. That is why I have also expressed this very clearly in the contacts I have had with the media.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-537	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The fact that officials in a department question a head of authority about what documents have been released to the media is in itself a good idea to go out on a sloping plane. The principle of public access is strong in Sweden, which Ida Karkiainen, among others, raised, and is expressed in a number of different ways in the Swedish government administration. It is about the right to access public documents, for example, but also about freedom of expression and freedom of communication and therefore also the prohibition of research. However, when government officials contact a head of authority to ensure that they have no views whatsoever on the documents disclosed and the Director-General sees this as having serious consequences for the disclosure of the documents, then something is not right. I do not know, Madam President, but it perhaps illustrates even better the risks of government officials contacting authorities with questions about how the principle of public access has been exercised. I had hoped for clarification from the Minister as to what it knew or did not know about contacts between the Ministry and the Authority last May. I have to say, unfortunately, that I have not received a great many of the questions raised. Rather, I think there are more questions about what was actually said in the discussion between the official of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Director General. But we are no longer getting into this debate, and I therefore thank you for the answers we have received and for a good debate.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-541	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I note at the outset that it was a unanimous KU that said that it broke in the documentation. If this has been the case with others, previous governments of other colors do not really matter. Nevertheless, we must have a higher level of ambition than just pointing fingers at each other. This is about fundamental parts of our democratic system. The principle of public access, which is protected by the Constitution, is ultimately aimed at giving citizens the opportunity to review their power. The release can have serious consequences, should have been said in upset conversations. Immediately thereafter, the Director-General has changed the procedures for the disclosure of public documents by the Authority. These are data that have emerged in the media so far. We have not become much wiser in this debate about what has happened otherwise, but it is well to be seen. In any case, Madam President, the information that has been provided is extremely serious. When power tries to limit transparency, as the Constitution is supposed to guarantee, we are on a very dangerous path. When this comes to light, it is expected that responsible politicians – in this case the Minister for Social Security – will take the tasks very seriously and do everything in their power to ensure that it does not happen again and to ensure that respect for the constitutions is complete with the employees of the department. When this does not happen and when the data are not taken seriously by the responsible minister, but rather faded down and explained away, there can be serious consequences.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-547	Madam President, I would like I have no reason to doubt that the Government is convinced that there has been no influence from the Department. I want to make that clear. At the same time, I think that if you are Minister of Social Affairs and if the image in the media is put on the basis of an email that the acting Director-General has written to her staff, in which she describes how the department tries to influence the authority, you as Minister of State must be upset. Why does she write such an email? What image is put in the media based on this email? This may cause many officials to feel that they are not in a position to disclose public documents in the future. I have now asked the same question two or three times. Was there any contact with acting Director-General as to why she had expressed herself in this way? This has meant that the whole media image has become that the department has tried to influence the agency. This in itself is extremely serious for the whole principle of public access in Sweden, even in relation to other departments. The question remains. Has the Government or the Ministry contacted acting Director-General and asked why she has expressed herself in this way?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-550	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by replying to Maria Stenergards's speech, which was that the issue is not taken seriously. This is not in harmony with the truth. I have been extremely clear that the principle of public access is absolutely fundamental in Sweden. Of course, when these tasks came to my attention, I understood exactly what could be behind them and what has led to this situation. I just explained – here in this interpellation debate – to that. I described that this is about an official at the Ministry of Social Affairs who has regular contact with the Director General of the Social Insurance Agency. In this case, it was about the fact that there were memos in the media with the Social Affairs Department's logo. But we at the Ministry of Social Affairs did not recognize these notes. Then it is natural for the department to contact the Director General to clarify what has been released. After all, it looked like it was a common note, while we could see that it was not. I think this is taking this issue very seriously. I have tried, on my part, to ensure that the situation in this case has been handled in a manner that is according to the book and that the conversation has been conducted in a tone that at least on our part has not been perceived in any strange way. Of course, the question has also been raised with the then acting Director-General in connection with the delivery of the data. We discussed this. She has also presented in the media how she perceived the situation and the email she wrote. I have no other information than this. As I said, I welcome the KU's review.
i-ztYiA893pfu4ACcuZzULH	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me a number of questions about the financial compensation to non-state airports in Norrland as a result of the air tax imposed. A tax on air travel was introduced on 1 April 2018 to help Sweden become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. According to the Government's 2018 budget proposal, SEK 84.8 million was allocated in 2018 to ensure that the aviation tax does not increase operating deficits at non-governmental airports in Norrland. The transitional government's budget bill proposed SEK 84.8 million for 2019 for the same purpose. Parliament's decision on the state budget for 2019, according to a reservation from the Moderates and Christian Democrats, means that the funds to compensate for increased operating deficits at airports in Norrland were halved for 2019. No funds have yet been paid out to airports. In the spring 2019 amending budget, the Government proposes that an additional SEK 57 million be allocated for compensation to non-governmental airports in Norrland. The aid amounts to a total of SEK 99 million for 2019. If evidence shows that the additional SEK 61 per ticket increases the operating deficit of an airport, it will receive compensation. Work is under way on how to manage the aid.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-558	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The reason I have put these interpellations to the Minister for Infrastructure is that when the government with the Social Democrats and the Green Party introduced the air tax, even though they knew that it would have major negative consequences for air traffic in Sweden and hit us most and hardest in Norrland, they finally promised compensation to Norrland. Of this compensation, exactly zero SEK has been paid. SEK 85 million has been allocated twice, but zero has been paid out. The government's criticism that emerges here is that the Moderates and Christian Democrats in their budget abolished the compensation. But it simply has to do with the fact that we also removed the airline tax. Then we did not have to compensate for this. That is the background to the matter. Madam President, I would like Norrland pays 100% of its share of the airline tax. Norrland pays 100% of its share in the petrol tax increases and diesel tax increases that this government has made. Norrland pays 100% of its share in all the penalties imposed by this government from a distance and which strikes most against us who live in Norrland. But the government has paid out exactly zero crowns of what would compensate for the major negative effects that the airline tax would have. That, Madam President, seems to me to be very bad for this government. You introduce taxes. Criminal taxes are imposed. It targets those who have the most distance to deal with, and then promises compensation that you do not even pay out. I think that is weak, Madam President. I understand the Minister's answer. He can't answer anything but he's done, because you haven't paid out the money. But I would like the government to say: No, we have realised that the policy we are pursuing is hitting you hard in Norrland. The compensation we have promised you to cover at least part of the negative we are actually going to pay out. But, Madam President, the Minister does not say that in his reply. I can promise everyone who listens to this debate that in this House I intend to pursue the Minister for Infrastructure and the Government, so that a small, small shard of compensation is paid for the major negative consequences that the government's policy has for Norrland.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-565	Madam President, I would like Good luck with the hunt, Edward Riedl! I have no worries about answering questions about this. I am more concerned about Moderates' lack of interest in seeing the major challenges of aviation when it comes to meeting climate change or, for that matter, the strong civic commitment we have to enable aviation to play its part. I remember what it was like when we were hit by the Nexjet bankruptcy, when five airports in Norrland – both Västerbotten and Norrbotten – were without flights because a private airline went bankrupt. Within 48 hours, I and the Director General of the Finnish Transport Administration were in place and had a press conference to make sure that the flights were back in the air as soon as possible. It was market rules in the EU that made it impossible for us in two places to get air traffic up immediately. It took six months because it wanted to give other airlines across Europe the opportunity to bid on the routes according to the public service obligations. I don't think it's sustainable. I think that the state has a responsibility for us to have good infrastructure and for us to have good air connections. That is why we are paying for the public service obligations. Therefore, it is SEK 183 million, namely SEK 183 313 000, which is paid out in aid to regional airports. And then I didn't count on the 40 million dollars in the so-called county planning funds. There is therefore quite a lot of support for regional airports, non-state airports. This is important, because it is an important part of Sweden's infrastructure. These are the facts that Edward Riedl forgets to mention. As far as the airline tax is concerned, you removed the subsidy. You halved it in the budget. But the plane tax was still there. It wasn't abolished. You should remember that. Entry into force was not until later. We had time to prevent that. We provided funds and, of course, we must ensure that we are compensated at the moment when it turns out that the airline tax has negative effects. The airport tax was introduced on 1 April 2018. In my world, when you want to calculate the effects of a flight tax, you want to account for the financial statements. They want to see the one-year effect and see what effects a flight tax has had. It goes without saying to me. Should it turn out that 61 SEK per domestic ticket has had the negative effects you should have compensation. We have provided funds for this. The Moderates or Christian Democrats did not do so or, for that matter, the Swedish Democrats when in their budget they chose to withdraw support for regional airports. I think it is important to look at the responsibility of providing both financial support and long-term conditions. That is one of the reasons why we in the Government Office are working on a review of regional airports. They are of great importance, not least for many smaller municipalities. It is about opportunities for contacts with the outside world. It is about companies and their ability to connect with important export markets. That is why the public service obligations are important and, of course, we continue to protect them. On the substance of the matter, I can say that we have received evidence. We prepare this in the Government Office and will report it when we are done with the work.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-574	Madam President, I would like Let me start by saying, if it wasn't clear: all this government is doing is not bad. Very much you do is very bad but not everything. As for the bankruptcy of Nextchet, you could have worked a little faster, but what you did was right and proper. That's good. However, very much of what you are doing is bad, and that is what we are here to debate, not the government's few luck. We can take them at other times. The Minister says we in the M-KD budget took money away. What we did was we removed the air tax half-yearly, and we removed the subsidy half-yearly. But what the Minister forgets to say is that a tax of SEK 1 000 million is imposed. Then you send back SEK 85 million and think that you do something good. That is what I mean is a small shard of compensation to those in the country who are paying the price for the policy you are pursuing. And even this you do not succeed. You don't spend the money, but you don't pay it. That is the problem, Madam President. It is good that the Minister is willing to come and answer. It is well inscribed in the Constitution that the minister should do it, so it's great that he wants to do it. But I want the minister and the government to pay out the money. That's what I want. The Minister and the Government will pay the compensation to those who have been affected. Let me tell you how this has hit Norrland, which I represent. Skellefteå airport had at the beginning, before the airline tax, an airline. It was SAS. The airport has now found out what the effects of the air tax have been. A SAS Go ticket cost SEK 694 before being competitive and received Norwegian. You talk about 61 crowns, Madam President, on a one-way trip. But I'm going to explain what the reality is for people who are going to buy the tickets. When you got competition and Norwegian came in, a SAS Go ticket cost 449 SEK. It was a sharp fall in prices, as it was more than one company that was operating. Then the government introduced a flight tax that their own investigation stated would have major negative consequences, which it also had. It made Norwegian withdraw. The aviation industry has little margin. Now there is an airline, and I can tell the Minister what the airport has found out what the price per single ticket is today. It is 949 SEK, a doubling of the flight price. The government is talking about 61 kroner. You look a little scornfully up to the north and say: It's not so bad for you. The reality when Skellefte residents take the flight down to Stockholm is a doubling of the ticket price, 450 SEK and nothing else. Madam President, I would like I ask the Minister once again: when are you going to pay out the money, which is compensation for the major problems you cause for people in the country? That is what this is all about. That is the question I have asked. When will the money come to Norrland to compensate for the policy that has the cape directed towards distance? Distance is the only thing we have plenty of in this country. There you put in the hardest bump you can imagine, so that people who have these distances will not be able to handle them. Madam President, I would like When will the money come – the small, small compensation for the harmful policy of the government?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-582	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl! I note that the introduction was that everything we do is not bad. I thank you for that. It is a good recognition from a moderate and a very committed Member of Parliament. Then the level of ambition and aggression is increased. I'm sorry about that. We can look at the first part. It is true that in some places Norwegian has chosen to close down. They have also started new lines. Should we make the opposite calculation for the lines that become competitive when prices fall? Is it also an airline tax effect if it is a new establishment of lines? It's a math that won't last. Edward Riedl should realize that. However, one should of course be compensated if SEK 61 per domestic ticket would mean that there is a reduction. I think that's important. We said that from the very beginning when we introduced the airline tax. The problem for the Moderates is that it has not in any way come up with how aviation will contribute to climate change. When it comes to cars, trucks, trains, shipping and surely soon electric scooters, there are very many good suggestions on how to take responsibility for the climate change that is taking place. But the Moderates shine with their absence when it comes to suggestions on how to take on their responsibilities. Out in the world, things look different. Several countries are introducing air tax, and there is an international discussion about the climate impact of aviation. If we are to meet the ambitious goals we have set ourselves in Sweden or the targets that the Moderates have set themselves in the Climate Preparation when it comes to achieving the Paris Agreement's goal, we have a homework to do, not least in the transport sector. The reason I am raising this thread is that the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, which the Parliament has supported, not only reduced – a halving – support for the airports in Norrland, but also brutally slaughtered support and efforts in the field of climate policy. I have to ask the question: Has it the Moderates who were previously a party that wanted ambitions in the climate area disappeared now, in the societies of the Swedish Democrats and Christian Democrats? All of a sudden, nuclear power is being highlighted as the energy source of the future or populist statements about petrol taxes. I still thought that deep within such a large and important party as the Moderates there was a burning climate commitment – in order for us in Sweden to do our part. Then I am clear that we should, of course, compensate for the airline tax. This is important, not least in Norrland. If it turns out that 61 SEK per domestic ticket has an effect, compensation shall be paid. We are preparing this work now. I'm a little worried, though. Wrong. In fact, I am very concerned that the Moderates are now slipping away from responsibility for the climate transition and the statements they made during the work of the Climate Preparation. They present draft budgets with a reduced level of ambition. They do not understand what not only Sweden's young people on the streets understand, but very many others realise, namely that we are in a situation where we have to ensure that all sectors are prepared for conversion, not least aviation. This is recognised in aviation. Air transport operators – companies, GKN and airlines – have now taken the initiative themselves. Together with Svante Axelsson and Fossil free Sweden, ambitious programmes for conversion have been developed. On the side, sometimes the Moderates stand and watch. I think you should get into the game, Edward Riedl. Feel free to chase me on the issue of compensation! It is important for Sweden to stay together and for us to have good relations. As a minor, who does not always have the best connections out into the world, I agree with this level of ambition. It is as important to me as to Edward Riedl that we have good connections in Norrland or in other parts of the country. But take your responsibility in the climate debate too, and find not only reasons to evade that responsibility!
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-593	Madam President, I would like Let me first correct part of the series of errors that the Minister is standing here in the speaker's chair and bringing forward. The slaughter in the M-KD budget that the Minister is talking about is thus the second largest climate budget in Sweden's history – the second largest budget that Sweden has ever had in the field of climate change. These are poor climate ambitions, says the Minister. I think that is a sad way of describing this. The UN Panel on Climate Change points to nuclear power as an important element in coping with climate problems. But the minister does not seem to care what the world's collective expertise thinks, but rather listens to others. Well, that's it. The problem with the government, Madam President, is that it has spent five years taxing ordinary, hardworking people around the country who depend on the car to get to and from work, driving their children to school or taking the plane to get to their meetings here in Stockholm. They have been hunted for five years with increased taxes, and yet climate emissions are increasing. It is strange, Madam President, that you do not succeed, even though you hunt all people in that way. This, I think, shows that we are not in fact justified by what we are saying about the high ambitions, because it is simply going in the wrong direction. Indeed, the government's climate policy has no real effect. The only effect it has is that it punishes people who have a distance to deal with, and I think this is a bad policy, both for the climate and for the people who live in that country. My question, Madam President, remains. The government has introduced a policy that is harmful to large parts of the country, not least Norrland. A small shard was promised in compensation, but zero kroner has been paid out. I think the Minister should stand here and say, "Of course we will pay out the money." But unfortunately, I doubt that this will happen.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-598	Madam President, I would like I think I've been clear. Of course, money should be paid out if it turns out that 61 SEK per domestic ticket takes effect. What makes me a little worried is that the Moderates are now not only failing in climate policy, but obviously also starting to falter in terms of economic policy and responsibility. You have to be careful about taxpayers' money. These are common resources that we have set aside. It is clear that we are not paying them out on current accounts, but here we need to know that there is a basis, that there is an effect. If there is, the money will be paid out. This is an important message from the government. As far as emissions are concerned, Edward Riedl is wrong, I would say. The increases in emissions we have seen for vehicle traffic mainly come from trucks – 3%. There is a challenge, and the automotive industry has it. I myself come from this industry and see the ambitious, committed conversion work that exists with electric roads in the Gävle area of Lars Beckman, with biofuels and with electrification of the vehicle fleet. I also see this in the Freight Transport Council and in the whole of Godssverige, which is now changing to transfer a large part of the increased quantities of goods to rail and, not least, shipping. And we succeed in this. That's how we're gonna meet the climate targets we've got. We will use the transport system we have in Sweden more efficiently and change the vehicle fleet, be it bonus– malus, biofuels or other efforts, not least electrification. At the same time, we will develop the opportunities for companies to use the good opportunities, not least in terms of shipping and the railways. The same is true of passenger transport, of course. There are great opportunities for us to both meet the climate goals and create some hope and confidence in the future – that with technical innovations and electrification, new climate-smart solutions can be found. It's good for jobs in Sweden, it's good for exports and it's good for the climate. It is a good policy that the government is currently pursuing.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-603	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me questions about the conditions for mobility throughout the country. I am keen that the transition to a fossil-free transport system takes place on the basis that the whole country will both live and grow. Transport accounts for about one third of Sweden's emissions, and the pace of transition to fossil freedom needs to increase significantly in order to achieve the transport sector's climate targets. The transition to fossil-free transport requires action on many levels. The climate-smart option needs to be a simple option. The transition to a transport-efficient society combined with an increased share of sustainable biofuels and access to renewable electricity are important elements. Last year, the Government decided on an investment of SEK 700 billion for Sweden's transport infrastructure. That is SEK 100 billion more than was set aside in 2014 – 2025 in the previous national plan by the then bourgeois government. Furthermore, the Government has decided on a freight transport strategy, commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to develop a long-term plan for the construction and expansion of electric roads and introduced a reduction obligation system aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. All parts of society need to change, but the conditions differ between different parts of the country, between people and between different activities. In parts of the country, the car will continue to be the most important means of long-distance travel and thus electrification and sustainable biofuels will be crucial for rural transformation.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-608	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I do not know whether the Minister of State and the Minister for Finance had synchronised this interpellation debate or whether it is a mere coincidence that Magdalena Andersson goes out in a major interview in Aftonbladet today and says that the petrol tax will be increased and the countryside will be compensated. In any case, I have received many upset calls from Gävleborg due to the Minister for Finance's petrol tax play today. I have asked the Minister for Infrastructure about the Trafikverket report, which states that it wants to reduce passenger car traffic by 10 – 20% by 2030 compared to 2010. So we want to reduce passenger car traffic, not emissions, Madam President, which is actually a difference. In the answer, the Government says, "In parts of the country, the car will continue to be the most important means of travel for longer journeys" – in parts of the country. Madam President, I would like Then, of course, the question which I hope the Minister for Infrastructure will be able to answer in his next speech. Where in Sweden is the car not needed? In which parts of the country does the government plan for us not to have cars and vehicles? In fact, I believe that the car is an amazing means of transport. The car is needed throughout Sweden. I believe there will be new fuels, which mean that we will have significantly less emissions. Already today, for example, a responsible motorist can drive on HVO diesel, which means dramatically reducing emissions. There is a very rapid change in society today. I would like to know whether the Minister for Infrastructure shares the view of the Finnish Transport Administration that passenger car traffic should be reduced by 20%. So reducing passenger car traffic is something entirely different from reducing emissions, as we agree. I would like to know in which parts of the country the government believes the car is not needed. This will be the consequence of the Government's reply saying that the car in parts of the country will continue to be an important means of transport.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-615	Madam President, I would like I'm a little worried. There is a lot of discussion about rural areas. When the government talks about rural areas, one gets the impression that it is sparsely populated in the interior of Norrland and so on. I can give you an example from home. I live no more than 30 km from central Gothenburg and 30 km from central Borås. Nevertheless, I have five kilometers to the bus stop. There is no way to get anywhere without first driving to the bus stop. Then you have to park the car on a commuter parking lot and have it standing there all day. Not many people want to, since you rarely have a car left there when you get home. That's why you take the car all the way because you've still started driving. The car is needed everywhere. Those of us who live in the country know that it is not just about getting to work. It's about getting to the store to shop, it's about getting to social activities, it's about driving children to different things and so on. We have many pensioners who need the car in the country, because they cannot get anywhere without a car. Then we hear the government's solution of introducing some new kind of travel allowance. But it only applies to trips to work. Those who need the car for everything else do not receive a travel allowance. I think the whole policy is a bit of a hypocrisy, that is, hunting the car and saying that we should have less traffic, fewer cars and drive fewer kilometres. Traffic analysis recently carried out an analysis of the taxation of different types of vehicle and concluded that private cars are heavily overtaxed, while all other means of transport are undertaxed. A recent report showed that if foreign flights were to be taxed as heavily as private car taxation, the airline tax on a trip to Thailand would be SEK 8,900. It shows how overtaxed private carism is. The cold facts on TV4 showed yesterday a replay of the big story about the gas power plant in the Russian Arctic. We have thus contributed from the Swedish side through export guarantees to the construction of a gas power plant in the Arctic. This gas power plant emits as much carbon dioxide as a tenth of what the whole of Sweden emits in a year. I think that puts the tax on petrol in a certain perspective. My question to the Minister for Infrastructure is: if he now realises that we actually need private carism in Sweden, does he think that we have a reasonable level of taxation on motorism? And how much more does he think you can raise the tax on petrol without people actually getting in the way? We already have a petrol tax uprising today, with over 600 000 people protesting against the high taxes on petrol. The statement from the Minister for Infrastructure then is that we should reduce the number of kilometres driven by private cars. I can't get this together.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-624	I would remind you that the debate is about climate law and mobility. It is the entrance of this interpellation.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-625	Madam President, I would like I thank Jan Ericson and Lars Beckman. Let me first adjust a few errors. Firstly, the Minister for Finance is wrongly quoted in today's media. It has been made quite clear. But if you choose to read headlines instead of finding out the subject matter, it will be so. Secondly, I have not said that passenger car traffic should be reduced radically. I don't remember exactly what Jan Ericson said. You still have to be careful in the Parliament's pulpit what you say and what you claim other people have said or what the government has said. There's a quote in the interpellation about a memo from the Swedish Transport Administration. It's a memo I don't know about. Above all, I see that the great opportunity for us to reduce emissions from passenger cars is about the fantastic development that we see in the automotive industry. I myself have worked in the automotive industry before. I am impressed by the efforts made, in the case of biofuels, in the area of more efficient engines and in the electrification of the fleet of vehicles. Here is so much within reach of Sweden when it comes to reducing emissions. I think that is absolutely crucial, because the price of oil will not fall in the future and because the supply of oil will not increase. This means that we have a transition to make, preferably with biofuels that may be produced in Sweden or with electric cars that can be powered by electricity produced from renewable sources. There is a great opportunity here for us to meet the sustainability objectives and yet ensure that we can actually reduce emissions from the transport sector. In that sense, I am a tech optimist. It does not breathe the same optimism from Lars Beckman or Jan Ericson; it should be said honestly. On the other hand, cars can also become a concern in the city centres in the form of congestion. It is a well-known fact in the cities of the world, and it is also a well-known fact in Stockholm. It is clear that in this sense the development of public transport is an important effort that needs to be made, and it is mainly done in the Stockholm area with metro and commuter train initiatives. It's important. Public transport is one of the major topics at international transport conferences now, precisely because we need to find more efficient ways of transporting people when urbanisation increases. I think everyone is aware that we will be able to see this increase in the same way that we see other types of mobility emerging in the big cities, perhaps not necessarily in the form of electric scooters that have been seen by several and that are certainly electric and do not emit so much emissions but which can create some other irritation in the urban environment. We have noted this recently. I'm a tech optimist. I believe that there are good conditions for us to maintain the opportunities to travel well in our elongated country. As politicians, we have a responsibility to ensure that everyone can take part in the transition journey that we need to make and that, as a strong vehicle-producing country, we are actually able, together with industry, to develop both new drivelines and use new biofuels to cope with this transition. That is what we work with in Sweden. In fact, the Moderates have previously also been involved in this work and have not sat alongside and watched when others have done climate work but have supported the Climate Act and realised that this is important for Swedish companies that are now pressing, as they see that customers, consumers and the world market are demanding climate-smart transport. Again, as in the previous interpellation debate, I can imagine that the Moderates are now making a shift in climate policy. It is sad to see in a situation when Sweden's young people are protesting on the streets of concern for climate change. Then we must show political leadership. But in Sweden we do so together with the actors in the automotive industry in particular through an active policy that contributes to the conversion through electrification. Here we have good opportunities to actually succeed in Sweden.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-636	I have now checked the interpellation, and the debate has so far remained within the framework of the issues highlighted in the interpellation.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-637	Madam President, I would like I'll start by taking up the gas tax. It is not every day that Lars Beckman stands and defends Aftonbladet. However, I note that on the Media World website, which I assume also the Minister for Infrastructure has access to, it is true that negotiations between parties have not begun. But it is also true that the price of petrol is raised as a result of indexation. This is what the assistant editor-in-chief of Aftonbladet Eric Rosén says to Media World. It cannot be unknown to the Government that last week the Parliament voted to reintroduce the over-indexation of the petrol tax, which means that the tax will be increased on 1 January by at least 17 cents. However, if the Government rejects petrol tax increases and will work to remove over-indexation, it would be welcome in the autumn budget. After all, it is the government that is presenting a budget in Parliament. Madam President, I would like I filed this interpellation on April 26. Because of different circumstances, it has been delayed, and today it is June 11. This means that the Minister for Infrastructure and Employees has had plenty of time to develop the Swedish Transport Administration's memo, which says that they want to reduce passenger car traffic by 10 to 20 percent. I would like to know whether the Minister for Infrastructure shares this view and wants to reduce passenger car traffic by 20%. So that is something entirely different from reducing emissions, which we agree is to be reduced. I also note that the Government answers my question in which parts of the country the car will continue to be the most important means of transport. The counter question becomes where not to have a car, and then Minister Stockholm's inner city says. Yes, it is possible; Stockholm's inner city is a very small and limited part of Sweden, and in Stockholm there is a metro. But I am absolutely convinced that the car is of crucial importance for mobility throughout Sweden, Madam President. I think there is no answer to the third question I have asked. Will the Minister take any steps to ensure that those in need of a passenger car continue to have that opportunity, under reasonable conditions? I happen to have a lot of family in Norrbotten. I have in-laws who have worked for Boden Municipality and Norrbotten County Council all my life. They are almost 80 years old, and I think it is reasonable for them to continue to be able to transport themselves, Madam President. Their pensions have not been increased at the same rate as the price of petrol and diesel taxes have been increased. They are also not unique in any way; there are very many pensioners around Sweden who now get their mobility restricted because they simply can't afford to refuel and drive as much as before. Anyone who would also like to switch to a larger car – I happen to have a loved one who, for physical reasons, needs a large car in order to get into and out of the vehicle – receives a penalty tax in the form of malus on the car to be changed to. This means, in this case, that you simply cannot afford to buy a new car, because you cannot afford the penalty of 20 000 per year for the car you would like to switch to. I believe that this restricts mobility, Madam President. This limits the mobility of Swedish pensioners. It limits the mobility of those with low incomes. Whoever drives a company car will be fine. The government from Nacka, which rides a government car, does not have to worry about the petrol tax but can make big moves in Aftonbladet and talk about shock raised petrol taxes. But in fact, I think that we in this House have a responsibility to ensure mobility throughout Sweden. I think it makes sense for people to be able to move around.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-644	Madam President, I would like I was a little surprised when the Minister for Infrastructure attacked me and claimed things that weren't right. I assume that the Minister for Infrastructure is behind his own authority, the Finnish Transport Agency and is also familiar with their memos, especially as I understand this came last year. I agree with Lars Beckman's question: is the Minister for Infrastructure distancing himself from the PM of the Finnish Transport Administration, which actually advocates a 10-20% reduction in passenger car traffic by 2030? It should be possible to answer yes or no to that question, I think. Then I wonder how the Minister of Finance is misquoted. In Aftonbladet, or if it was somewhere else in the media that it started today, she says that further increases in petrol tax are needed. Then she takes this back and says that there is no need for an increase in the tax on petrol, or that that is not what she meant. However, the over-indexation you intend to reintroduce at next year's turn means an annual increase in petrol tax, the Minister for Infrastructure. It is a tax increase; it is not possible to get away from it. ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: I must stress that it is not the Minister of Finance who is here to answer an interpellation but that the interpellation concerns the performance of the duties of the Minister for Infrastructure. ) Yes, but it would be interesting to hear whether the Minister for Infrastructure agrees with this view of the petrol tax. It's still the same government. As I said, we are also talking about rural versus urban areas. I usually make it clear that in the big city too many people actually need the car. We have many people with disabilities who have to take the car, and we have older people who do not want or dare to travel collectively. We have people who work uncomfortable hours when the rest of us sleep. Does the Minister of Infrastructure realise that they too must be able to drive?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-650	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman and Jan Ericson! I am surprised by the tone, may I say, but this is probably the new tone of the Moderates in the Swedish political debate. I began by saying that I myself come from the automotive industry. The car is important for Sweden. I'm surprised you think someone thinks someone should be denied those opportunities. I am also a little fascinated when Lars Beckman takes pensioners as an example. One measure that has ensured that pensioners have had fewer opportunities is the pensioner tax that you introduced, Lars Beckman. The uniqueness of pensioners paying higher taxes than wage earners reduced pensioners' ability to afford transport. At the same time, we have compensated for this by removing the unjust pensioner's tax on the country's pensioners and ensuring that pensions are increased. We have also invested in public transport in rural areas, and we have made the biggest infrastructure investments in Sweden's modern history to ensure that we create better conditions for mobility. That's what the interpellation was about. And what is mobility? Well, it's roads that run on. When the bourgeois government had government power, it failed to invest in the roads. These were savings, and the results are seen in the form of poorly maintained roads throughout Sweden. Now we are making an investment of 164 billion to raise road standards. Similarly, it also failed to invest in the railway structure, with signalling errors and exchange errors as daily recurring headings. Now we are making the biggest railway investment in modern times, because we see the need to invest. During the time the Moderates were in government, priority was given to tax cuts, tax reductions and further tax cuts – but not to pensioners! They did not receive as much tax cuts as employees. Again: If you are to have the opportunity to change Sweden – and I want the whole of the Swedish people to have – we must have a policy that allows you to manage the transformation in all parts of the country, whether it be biofuels or electrification. One example is Lars Beckman's constituency, where we have had one of the world's unique tests with electric roads. Electric roads mean that we could drive heavy truck transport completely fossil-free. The starting point, of course, is that we need to change Transportsverige. I think everyone realizes that. Following the Climate Policy Council's report, the consequences and challenges for the transport sector are clearly seen. If you understand this and are behind the work of the Climate Policy Council, the climate law we have had and the work we have had in Sweden – where we actually agreed across party boundaries on what levels of ambition would apply – the Moderates are obliged to answer. Today we have the answer that we do not want to do anything on the vehicle side. In addition, it does not want to make sufficient investment in infrastructure. They turn for nuclear power and perhaps want to break up what was a historic agreement on energy policy and that all actors have seen was absolutely necessary for someone to dare invest industrially in Sweden. This may be the case if you have pressured opinion numbers and start looking for new electoral groups to get headlines around, but I think the verdict will be tough not least on the part of the younger generations. They see the need for us politicians in Sweden to now take responsibility for the transformation. It should be done in a way that makes it possible throughout the country. I myself come from Kosta, a small place in Småland with 800 inhabitants. There were no airports or, for that matter, high-speed trains, and there was no extension of public transport. There the car was necessary, and so it is for many in large parts of the country. That is why we must make this journey and be ready to change the vehicle fleet, and there we are working together with the automotive industry. Sweden can become a world leader. But if you are to be on the journey, you must also look at the possibilities – not sit down in the gallery and try to find all the objections you can come up with.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-658	I note that all Members of the debate are helping to broaden the debate, and you can think about that.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-659	Madam President, I would like I noted that Tomas Eneroth was advertising that we reduced the tax five times for Swedish pensioners during the last term of office, which allowed them to afford more fuel for the car. That's good. I also noted that the Government talked about nuclear power and about everything other than the simple question that Jan Ericson and I asked: Do the Swedish Minister for Infrastructure share the opinion that the Swedish Transport Administration, as they write about in their memo, that passenger car traffic in Sweden should be reduced by 20 percent? That question can be answered with a yes, I share it or no, I do not share it. I have also asked whether the Minister will take any steps to ensure that those in need of a passenger car continue to have this opportunity under reasonable conditions. Now that the Minister has talked about nuclear power and about the conditions for pensioners in general, it would be interesting to hear the answer to that question. I think we agree that the car and mobility are important in Sweden, but when we have a runaway petrol price and diesel price, it restricts mobility for many. I visited the Swedish Transport Administration in Gävle and asked about the roads in Gävleborg. The Finnish Transport Agency described the consequences of the weighting that the government has. In an analysis of Gävleborg it has been written that you will have to convert asphalt roads to gravel roads because you do not have enough resources to maintain existing roads. They even said from Trafikverket that a gravel road could actually be better than a bad asphalt road. I have not heard anyone from Trafikverket suggest that you redo Essingeleden to gravel road, but if it were better to have gravel roads instead of asphalt we can redo all roads to gravel roads. It doesn't make sense. Please answer the three questions that have been asked.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-666	Madam President, I would like I think I have answered the questions about how I think we should improve mobility and how we should ensure that we can use both cars and other modes of transport to increase mobility. It is not up to the government to keep talking about various memos developed by the Swedish Transport Administration, but to reassure Lars Beckman I can say that the government has not made any decisions to reduce passenger car traffic by 20 percent. The starting point is the change in the vehicle fleet that needs to be made and the expansion of other transport options, not least public transport, or public transport. Not least the Moderates in Stockholm, if we take them as an example, see the need for a shift to efficient transport with which many people can quickly travel to their workplaces. Similarly, I believe that the rail investment we are now making – the largest in modern times – is helping to widen the labour market regions. I also think it helps more people, perhaps instead of taking the car, to take the commuter train to work. I think it helps – as with what we have done down in Småland or in Skåne, where we invested in Öresundstrafiken – to increase this commuting instead of commuting with cars. Perhaps it can be both safer and more climate-smart, provided that we manage reliability and that we make the right investments. Here, the Moderates as usual owe the answer because they themselves stand behind – or pushed through – a situation with major shortcomings in Sweden's infrastructure. The priority tax reductions before investment in roads and railways. Now we're gonna have to repair this. We do so with investments of 700 billion across the country, not least in Lars Beckman's own constituency. There we make big investments, and I am convinced that Lars Beckman thinks it is excellent spent money.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-672	Madam President, I would like Jessika Roswall has asked me questions about Arlanda's future. In January 2017, the Government presented A Swedish Aviation Strategy – for the role of aviation in the transport system of the future. The Aviation Strategy states, among other things, that a Arlanda Council in dialogue and collaboration will develop proposals and a roadmap for Arlanda and that the climate impact of aviation will be reduced. The work of the Arlanda Council has been completed since 31 March, and since the current government took office, the Council has had no meetings. The handling of the Arlanda Council's work is not finished.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-675	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer, although I may not think it was much of a response to the questions I asked. I was going to repeat them here. Does the Minister intend to present the conclusions of the Arlanda report in the near future? Does the conflict with the Green Party, as we have seen in a number of newspapers, mean that plans for the expansion of Arlanda will be stopped, and what does the Minister intend to do to pass the matter on? I would like answers to these three questions. The answer we just heard is a little difficult to understand. Just as the government writes in its aviation strategy, aviation is of great importance for Sweden and for Sweden's economy and competitiveness. It simply plays a major role. Sweden is an elongated country with long distances. We lie where we lie, that is, on the outskirts of northern Europe. We are an export-dependent country, and we are cooperating with countries all over the world. Flying is necessary for a great many – to keep our regions together, to bring regional growth and to make people live and live all over the country. I also think it is important that we keep reminding ourselves that we must not pit transport modes against each other. We need to talk about the whole journey, and that is where aviation is of great importance. If I understood correctly, the flight strategy was developed to ensure a more sustainable flight. That's what they said, and you needed to have a plan for it. I think that's good. I also think it is good that the strategy speaks specifically of Arlanda, which is of particular importance. It also says in the strategy that Arlanda is an important airport for the whole of Sweden, as I have said – for exports, growth, regional cohesion and so on. Arlanda simply plays an important role in the growth engine. The strategy also says that the capacity at Arlanda needs to be expanded. A Arlanda Council was set up to draw up a plan for how Arlanda would develop. This, too, seems to me to be a good thing, but it seems to have gone to bits. That is why I, as well as others, have asked the Government written questions and asked what is happening. I haven't heard much. That is why I had the three questions I just asked. I can set them again: What does the Minister intend to do with the report? When will it be presented? Does the conflict with the Environmental Party stop developments at Arlanda, and how does the Minister intend to proceed with the issue of Arlanda? These were the three questions I want answers to today, which I did not think I had just received.
i-WMjJzvjs4mk5VPTHmSto5G	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessika Roswall, for your commitment! I believe that we share the view that aviation is very important to Sweden. We are a small, export-dependent country. For us, it is important to get out into the world's markets in order to sell Swedish transport, products and services. The flight is also needed because we are an elongated country. Accommodation in Västerbotten's hinterland or in Norrbotten's hinterland, not least in the five municipalities where airports or air routes were closed after the bankruptcy of Nextchet, became painfully and clearly aware of the importance of the flight. I had, from the government's side, to stand and report within 48 hours how we would ensure that the aircraft could get back into the air. It was important both for the residents of Vilhelmina, Arvidsjaur or Gällivare and for the companies in the regions. The flight is important. That is why we have public service obligations, and that is also why we have extensive support for regional airports. In the same way, international business aviation is important, and Arlanda plays a major role. There are, of course, parts in the country where we see that with good development of rail systems and other things we can replace air travel. Between Stockholm and Gothenburg I imagine that in the future people will be able to ride trains instead, not least if we build new main tracks. The entire work with the Aviation Strategy and the Arlanda Council has been about creating the conditions to see what challenges there are for the transition that needs to be made. For example, I think that Swedavia has worked constructively and well to ensure that Arlanda can become a fossil-free airport in their own operations. I think that's how we need to work in Sweden. I think that we need to look at the possibilities for gradually ensuring that aviation is able to cope with the change that needs to be made. Right now we are preparing questions and working on questions about both the future of Arlanda and the future of regional airports. This is important, and I believe that the flight itself is keen to be on that journey. This testifies, in particular, to the work of the aviation industry and aviation operators themselves. Within the framework of Svante Axelsson's work in Fossil-free Sweden, an ambitious plan has been developed to show how the aircraft will cope with the conversion. We are now seeing a decrease in the number of flights. It's a little early to tell the reasons. Let's wait until we see if it's a long-term trend. But I can see that there is a debate that some people choose other ways of travelling. Train rides are increasing. We have a political responsibility both to manage the transition and to develop new travel options. As regards the transformation, the government has appointed and delivered an investigation into biofuels for aviation, the Biojet investigation, which we are now preparing within the Government Office. It can create good opportunities for Sweden to cope at least for a period of time with an increased involvement of biofuels and thus reduce the climate impact of aviation. In the long term, we also have Elise, a project about developing electric flights in Sweden. Although it will take its time, it is an exciting development. This will mean that the climate impact of aviation can definitely be reduced – provided that electricity comes from renewable energy, of course. We will continue to work on both the aviation strategy and the role of Arlanda and the regional airports in maintaining the important function of aviation and in helping the aircraft to cope with the transformation that it needs to do, just like all other modes of transport, in the future. There I hope for good cooperation, not least with the Moderates but also with other parties, because it is an important change that we need to make jointly in Sweden.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-696	Madam President, I would like Now it was still a little more developed text. I thank you for that, although I still do not really hear the answers on how to proceed with the Arlanda Council's report. I have just heard a debate in which the President said that we should try to stick to what the interpellations are, so we should not discuss trains now, nor perhaps biofuels, even if it is closer to the interpellation than the other things. I fully share the Minister's view on the reduction obligation for aviation fuel. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that the alliance parties have been pushing ahead. As I said, I can agree with very much as the Government says, and I would have liked to have heard the interpellation response. I will come back to this issue, because there seems to be a conflict in the government about it. As the Government itself says, the industry, all of us travelers and everyone living in this country, want answers. The aviation strategy, which I would like to come back to a little bit, states that the role of aviation in the transport system is self-evident, and we seem to agree on that. That is why I find it somewhat incomprehensible that the government does not provide an answer when it comes to Arlanda. One of the objectives of the aviation strategy is that Arlanda will become the leading airport in the Nordic region. How do you get there? I do not quite understand it myself, and I think the industry also wants answers. I fully agree with the Government that the industry wants to be part of the transition. In the meantime, when aircraft do not proceed with this, they use more fuel than necessary. They circulate above Arlanda so that they do not come down at the right time, and there are no streets to arrive at. This costs both money and the environment. I would like a clearer answer from the Government. The Arlanda Council should have delivered its report before Christmas. This was not done but was extended to 31 March. But we still haven't seen it. I would like to hear when we can expect to see the strategy and plan that the Arlanda Council has been working on. Once again, Minister: When will we see the outcome of the Arlanda Council report?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-705	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Roswall! I very much appreciate the commitment to biofuels. Whether it was an initiative from the Alliance, the Social Democrats or the Green Party does not really matter. The important thing is that Sweden takes the lead when it comes to the conversion of aviation, because we are a country that is dependent on aviation. We are a country which, at the same time, realises – and I hope it is wide across party boundaries – that aviation, like all other modes of transport, needs to change. This is why it is the right time for aviation operators to be a bit late themselves, but in the end they see the need to make a change, just as the automotive industry and other players have done in the past. We have capacity and conditions in Sweden. We have the aerospace industry in place. We have companies that are committed and want to find good ways. And climate impact can be reduced by biojets, biofuels and reduction obligations. It can also be reduced by other smart ways, such as smart approaches. Then the construction of airports is a part and, of course, also the regulation of airspace. There is an intensive discussion on how airspace, not least in Europe, can be regulated in the future. The work we have done in the Arlanda Council, which I have led, has been very constructive. It has been good input from many of the participants. This means that we have acquired a solid and good basis for the processes that are now under way. In the same way that I am keen that we look at how Arlanda develops, it is important that we look at how regional airports in Sweden generally develop. We were able to hear in the previous interpellation debate about the concerns about how airports in the rest of the country are going to manage this. It is important that we have a perspective where we are able to manage the interest in international relations in the world and Arlanda's importance in it, or for that matter Arlanda's importance based on the development that we can imagine will occur with Bromma after the 2038 agreement. It is also important that we see the flying as a whole and that we maintain good flight connections in not least, as we mentioned earlier, Västerbotten's or Norrbotten's inland. The government is working on preparing the proposals and looking at how we should work further according to the aviation strategy that the government has decided on and – I will be formal – the previous government has also decided on. It's a good flight strategy. It received a lot of attention, and it received positive support from the industry. Now there are challenges to face in the changed flying. There's no doubt about it. This is a challenge for both aviation operators and others. I think a key is to show you how the flight is actually going to be able to make the transition. There we will contribute with biofuel issues and with other efforts that need to be made. In this sense, I am optimistic about the possibility of finding solutions that have broad support and broad acceptance.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-712	Madam President, I would like Yes, now there are challenges, absolutely. I forgot to say in my last speech that I was pleased when, in the previous interpellation debate, the Government talked about new technologies. I really think we should do that in this one too. We met some today and talked about future electric airplanes and so on. I think that is something that we should welcome positively. Now we have challenges. That's why I'm nagging about the issue of Arlanda, because challenges are here and now for Arlanda. It is not after 2038 or 2045, but it is now that there is a problem. This summer, large parts of Arlanda are closing for repairs. We think that's a good thing. But I think it will also show further shortcomings. As I mentioned just now, there are delays at Arlanda Airport, unnecessary fuel is released and no street is found. We cannot wait for a capacity increase. I would therefore like to see the outcome of the Arlanda Council. Now the Government says that there have been constructive discussions. I would have liked to have seen them, and I know that the industry would have needed them too. What concerns me now is that we do not know what is happening but are standing still and stomping, and the interpellation response that the Minister was reading here earlier makes me even more worried. I would like to conclude by thanking you for the debate. But I must warn you that I will probably come back if the Government is not able to tell us how to move forward on this issue. Finally, it is important that we think about all modes of transport and do not pit them against each other. They all have their problems to work with in the transition. But aviation wants to be involved, and I think that we need to look at how all our airports can be sustainable and neutral.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-717	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessika Roswall! It is an extensive renovation work that takes place throughout Infrastructure Sweden, whether we speak of roads or railways or for that matter in order to strengthen shipping. A renovation is also being carried out in the case of aviation. I know that the renovations at Arlanda are done for the intended reason, to improve flows and to get better baggage handling. There have been shortcomings there that have made travellers dissatisfied. As far as I understand, Swedavia works intensively to improve Arlanda's service level and working environment, but also to manage the transformation of its own operations into fossil-free, which I think is important. I can also be pleased with the regional turnout when we were working on the national plan. In the past, seven airports in the region were perhaps identified as crucial for the future of aviation and the region, but there was now a commitment to the specific importance of Arlanda. Arlanda has a specific significance, not only for the Stockholm region but also nationally – for business aviation, for our international relations and as an important node for large parts of domestic aviation. Of course, it remains to be seen how Bromma develops in the future. It is important that we take advantage of the positive power that the aviation industry and the aviation operators themselves take the initiative to change. The policy can work together with the industry and see what efforts we can make to accelerate not least the development of biofuels – here we need courageous decisions – and perhaps in the long term electrification. I hope for it, too, technology optimist as I am.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-721	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Christensson has asked me several questions about road infrastructure. The Government decided on 31 May 2018 on a new national traffic cross-border plan for transport infrastructure for the period 2018 – 2029. For the government, it is important that the whole of Sweden is given good opportunities to grow and develop. The national plan therefore includes major investments throughout the country in both new construction and renovation and maintenance of existing infrastructure. In the new plan, the allocation for the maintenance of roads has increased to SEK 164 billion. Of these, a total of SEK 16.3 billion is allocated for load-bearing measures, including measures to increase the load-bearing capacity of the road network to BK4 and measures to ensure that the road network is available all year round and to adapt the robustness of the road system in a changing climate. In connection with the budget proposal for 2016 and 2018, the Government has also implemented targeted investments in the maintenance of roads in rural areas totalling SEK 700 million. It is also gratifying that the Government proposes to increase the grant for the operation of individual roads by SEK 66 million in the spring change budget for 2019. The Finnish Transport Agency has the Government's mission to implement measures in the road network to ensure good bearing capacity. The Government's increased efforts on bearing capacity measures will help to improve the robustness of, among other things, important business routes throughout the country and, in many cases, also higher bearing capacity as a result of investments in BK4. The government believes that it is important for the business community to be able to implement efficient road transport, and I will continue to monitor the development of sustainability on state roads.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-727	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I put this interpellation on the occasion of a visit on road 2097. There, an action group worked to improve the standard on this road, located in my home area of Fyrbodal – Fyrstad, Bohuslän, Dalsland. On the occasion of this visit, I wanted to see how there are differences around the country in terms of bearing capacity and roads that are shut down for heavy duty vehicles due to frost restrictions. The RUT report I had produced, which is based on the Swedish Transport Administration's figures on frost restrictions and the number of daily kilometres measured in the off road for heavy-duty vehicles, is rather sad reading. Some areas in the country are particularly affected, and as a Member of Parliament for the northern part of Västra Götaland County, as it is formally called, I am rather dismayed when I see that small municipalities such as Dals-Ed, Bengtsfors and Färgelanda have as much road, measured in daily kilometres, closed due to frost restrictions as Norrlandslänen Västerbotten, Västernorrland and Jämtland. Three municipalities with a total of 20 000 inhabitants thus have as much problems as these three to the surface large counties. In Fyrbodal, a total of 270 000 people live in 14 municipalities, and it can be seen that this whole area is particularly affected. The area's major industries are industry, forestry and tourism. It is a border region to Norway with a lot of traffic both there and to Värmland. Many in the area live in the countryside and start and finish their trips on the road. They depend on a well-functioning road infrastructure so that the services needed can be delivered throughout the area. People living or studying elsewhere must also be able to get here. The forest raw material, which is crucial in the green transition so that we get more renewable energy, must be able to be retrieved from the forest and transported to everything from the chemical industry near my home area to Värö mill in Varberg municipality. A timber terminal is currently being discussed, and it is important that the timber can be taken from the forest to this terminal in Bäckefors if that is the case. The government received some specific questions, but I did not feel that he answered them. As a Member of Parliament for Fyrbodal, I find it unfortunate that our area is more affected than other areas. I would therefore like the Government to develop its reasoning on what he and the Government want to do to make things better. At best, no one should have to suffer from frost restrictions, but how do we ensure that the areas that are particularly affected today are not affected next winter and spring?
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-733	Madam President, I would like I thank Fredrik Christensson for his commitment. I share it, because I myself come from the middle of Småland, where frost damaged roads are everyday. I know how important good roads are, not just for you and me, but above all for the forest industry and other heavy transport. This is one of the reasons why we are spending 164 billion on road maintenance. It's really needed. We are also making an earmarked effort to increase bearing capacity. We open up 74-ton trucks at BK4 to get more efficient and better transport, and in this is the assignment to the Swedish Transport Administration to strengthen the load capacity properly. We have budgetary cooperation, and I look forward to it. Here we have added extra money, so-called pothole money, to reinforce roads in rural areas that have suffered, among other things, frost damage. In Dalsland and northern Bohuslän there is the successful Frizon project. It is a collaboration between the Swedish Transport Administration and the forestry industry in order to facilitate heavy transport during thawing without causing excessive damage to roads or hindering accessibility for other road users. According to the statistics on tar restrictions on public roads, during 2019 Fyrbodal has not had more than twice as many restrictions as Västernorrland, Jämtland and Västerbotten County together. But I am happy to look at the RUT report, because the evidence we have studied does not show this. So far the statistics. The important thing is what we do in a situation where we have poor quality on the roads. How do we ensure that we increase weariness? One part is of course that we provide the right resources, implement BK4 and strengthen the loadability on the roads. I believe that both Fredrik Christensson and I are convinced that both the forest industry and other heavy transports will be able to get on the roads. This is important for the export industry. It is important for Värö mills and other operations in West Sweden. Then we must also make sure that it is the right string that we use and implement. One is the road network, but let me take the opportunity to strike a blow to combine it with other modes of transport that need to be strengthened: the possibility of transhipment to rail or, for that matter, maritime transport. This is how we work in the Government's Freight Transport Council with the Good Strategy. We look at how we can extend all the way for, for example, forest raw materials or other products that travel on our roads – from a 74-tonne truck on a BK4 road to transhipment to exempe lvis rail, or for that matter an automated port along the shipping route for climate-smart transport out into the world's markets. Already today, I believe that about 90% of our export products go via shipping, and now we are strengthening it properly. This, I believe, must be the answer to the challenges. We must both strengthen the basic infrastructure – where I share Christensson's view – and at the same time constantly fight to find new ways for climate-smarter transport, not least for our heavy industrial products. There, rail initiatives and maritime initiatives are important elements.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-743	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tomas Eneroth, for the more developed answer! I share the view that we need to see the whole of the chain, so it is gratifying. In Dalsland, in my constituency and in my area, they are currently preparing a transhipment terminal for timber. It is an important opportunity for the forest that is there to be transported further out into the world or, for example, to Värö mill, which is in need of the timber and raw materials that are in our area. It is also important to strengthen business and industry. The figures produced by the parliamentary investigation service show how Fyrbodal has been particularly affected by frost restrictions. The action group that I started by talking about had themselves looked at what it looked like in 2017, based on the Swedish Transport Administration's figures. There you could again see that Fyrbodal in the northern part of Västra Götaland is particularly affected by closed roads. This is very unfortunate. Action is needed in view of the fact that this area is located in one of Sweden's leading industrial and agricultural counties. There is also an important connection to Norway and out into the world thanks to the proximity to Gothenburg harbour and so on. It is about getting a long-term view of the infrastructure so that it lasts and lasts. When it came to the road that the action group started around, there was a decision from the 1980s where the road was on the ground at the time. It would be frostproof and also evidenced. This has not been done in 2019. During the time that has passed, there have been both bourgeois and social democratic governments, and there have certainly been good reasons to invest in both the smaller roads and the larger strings. The needs are great when it comes to Swedish infrastructure. But it is clear that it affects the people who live there and who hope for a better path. After this has been a little mediated during the spring, efforts are now being made, which is good. Let us hope that next year there will be no road closures or frost restrictions, because that affects the people who live there. When you see pictures of the cars and vehicles that travel there and hear stories about how the roads affect people's ability to live, operate and run businesses in these areas, you worry about the development. A more long-term approach is needed, which is why it is important for the government to raise these issues. This is about public roads. The Minister writes in his reply that we are now working together on the individual roads, and that is a very important issue for the Center Party. If I have heard the correct numbers, there are over 1 million trips starting or ending on a single road every day. They need to have better conditions, because that's usually where travel starts. Then they come to the public roads, and both smaller and larger stretches need to have a robust infrastructure.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-751	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik Christensson! I share the point of departure that there should be safe roads, not just for the sake of industry, although it is of course important. That is why we are now investing in BK4 for increased carrying capacity and 74-ton trucks. We spend SEK 164 billion on road maintenance, which is actually the biggest investment ever, and that is because it is prioritised and important. But it is also, of course, a matter of road safety in itself. Roads that do not have the right standard are unsafe and can contribute to an increased number of accidents and even serious ones. The job we have in front of us in Sweden is long-term also about climate-proofing our infrastructure due to weather changes. We note that last summer's drought, heat and fires resulted in extensive damage to the infrastructure, which will cost considerable resources to restore. In the same way, all reports say that in some parts of Sweden we risk seeing floods more recurrent than before. That is why we need to protect the climate infrastructure. This is one of the reasons why it was important to spend as much as SEK 164 billion and then distribute them evenly across the country and make the right priorities in the national plan. There, in my work as Minister of Infrastructure, I had the opportunity to travel around the country and listen to the priorities and wishes of the various regions. In West Sweden, I am not sure that it was roads, but it was a lot of railway initiatives that were prioritised and that we lifted in as new objects. I do not want us to put the various efforts against each other, but I think it is important that we see the importance of both maintaining the standard in the road network we have today and at the same time having the ability and the opportunity to build new rail and increase the possibilities for fairway deepening in the port of Gothenburg and thus being able to carry even more goods out into the world's markets. The answer is therefore that we continue with the great effort that we make on road maintenance. It is Trafikverket that has the task of securing the roads, and not least in Fyrbodal I imagine that the project that has been carried out with the forest industry helps to secure the roads so that it becomes better bearing capacity. There are earmarked appropriations to increase just the carrying capacity on the roads. What we need to do better is coordinate these efforts with the transport needs of other actors. We will listen to the needs of the business community and see what new transport corridors we will need in the future. That is one of the reasons why we in the Freight Transport Council have brought in both transport buyers, industrial operators and various interests to see what is the common national interest. Thankfully, recently we were able to bring about a change. A house factory near the port of Piteå was previously allowed to transport the parts of the house by road and rail instead of using shipping, which would have been the most convenient. This could not be resolved at first because there was no proper capacity or opportunity. It has now been recognised, and I now see that these transports are carried out by sea. That's how we have to work. There is almost a little bit of hands-on in different parts of the country, where together with chambers of commerce, various regional actors and transport buyers we see what are the most important efforts. It is about increasing the load capacity and finding transhipment terminals and smarter ways to use our transport infrastructure. Then we can reduce the climate impact. Then we can use the resources we have more efficiently, and in this way we can also reduce the costs for companies and the climate impact in companies' transport. That's exactly what we're working on together.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-761	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think this is an urgent issue, and that is also why I chose to interpel the Government. We can see that there are different needs in different parts of the country, and the infrastructure may well be an issue where one is never satisfied. Perhaps the Government itself has realised this by working on those issues. However, it is important to point out some principles. Among other things, there is the example of a road that has long been identified for action, and they are actually to be implemented. It's about the forest and the industry. People living and working in rural areas should be able to get to work, studies and on to other infrastructure and public transport. It is absolutely crucial for them to be able to live and live throughout the country. It is particularly problematic when some parts of the country are sidelined or affected by external factors, such as bad roads. The report from the Swedish Parliament's investigation service, 2019:611, shows that especially smaller municipalities are affected in Västra Götaland, in Fyrbodal, in a way that municipalities do not suffer around the country. Special efforts are needed in these areas to improve the conditions for people living and working there. I hope this is an issue that the Government will take with it. The Government is always welcome to visit Dalsland and Fyrbodal to experience the roads there and the needs of the country with their own eyes. For many people, the value of rural areas starts, and they need good conditions to transport on good and robust roads, both private and public.
i-aa263c9df0d28a42-766	Madam President, I would like In fact, I've traveled a lot on these roads. I have, and have had for a long time, a commitment and interest in industrial development and the automotive industry. I have therefore visited the region. The strong industrial capacity suggests that good road, rail and maritime transport opportunities are important. Fredrik Christensson has twice raised the fact that this is a road that they wanted to fix since the 80s. Of course, there have been several governments since then, but there may not always have been sufficient resources. Now we are giving 100 billion more than the bourgeois government did to infrastructure. It's the biggest investment in road maintenance. Let me be clear, however, that we chose to give priority to the regions. They chose in Västra Götaland and West Sweden to prioritise certain objects, but not others. It is important to see what priorities regionally choose to highlight. Let me be extra clear. It is not the case that West Sweden would be sidelined or under-supported by infrastructure investments. On the contrary, quite large investments are actually being made, not least in the Fyrbodal region and throughout West Sweden. It's important. But it is important not only for West Sweden, but it is the whole of Sweden's gate out to the world. The port of Gothenburg is not only Sweden's but also Norway's most important and largest port, and it is crucial for the Swedish export industry. That is why it has been important for me as a Smålander and Minister for Transport to ensure good investments also in West Sweden. They benefit the whole of Sweden. I think we are in agreement in principle, and I also think that we both realise that we are never satisfied. There will always be requests for more infrastructure. That's it. It is important that we also recognise the need for resources for road maintenance and maintenance of standards, including on less busy roads. There we seem to have a shared view. I thank you for that.
