i-08aead631e8b1d63-2	Madam President, I would like Mikael Strandman has asked me why the regulation that protects certain damages against foreclosure remains unchanged, given the commitments I made two and a half years ago. Strengthening the position of victims of crime is an important and priority for the government. It has, among other things, ensured that victim support organisations now have more resources than ever before. Crime prevention and the government's active work in drafting criminal law legislation that is in line with the values and needs of our time are also an important part of this. Such measures can hopefully lead to fewer victims. The existence of appropriate rules on compensation to victims is, of course, also important for strengthening the position of victims. The Government intends to review the level of victimisation compensation. In this context, it may also be useful to look at the regulation that protects certain damages against foreclosure, as the issues are part of a complex system and related to each other. I will therefore come back to the question of the possibility for victims of crime to obtain compensation for damages received by someone from the State because they have been detained.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-6	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for his answer. However, I am not entirely satisfied with the answers. In front of me, I have debate articles back to 2007 where this issue has been raised. Several bodies – senior police chiefs, Victim Support Finland, lawyers – have criticised this law. The reason for this is that this law is deeply offensive. It is because most people who receive these high compensations for having been detained are persons involved in criminal activities in different ways. Their arrests have by no means been unreasonable. But in Sweden, you are innocent if you are released or exonerated in court. It may also be that the person is innocent. I can understand the intention of the law, i.e. that the state must provide compensation – a plaster on the wounds. Nor has this person been able to work during this time and come behind with bills and so on. In this part I can understand that this damages should be protected for foreclosure to civil liability. On the other hand, I cannot understand why an exception has not been made in the enforcement code and in this exception it has been stated that, if there are debts to former victims of crime, damages should not be protected from foreclosure. If you choose to do so and protect the entire amount, it actually means prioritising the criminals or former criminals over the victims who have suffered for what these people have done.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-13	I also have a question about what the Minister for Justice and Migration says at the end of the interpellation response: In this context, it may also be useful to look at the regulation that protects certain damages against foreclosure, as the issues are part of a complex system and related to each other. ..................................................... I do not think they are connected. It's two completely different laws. The offence compensation is governed by the Criminal Damage Act, while protection against foreclosure is laid down in the Enforcement Code. None of them are constitutions. It would have been very easy for you already 10 – 15 years ago – or for those who were then responsible – to change this and remove this law that is offensive to general legal awareness, that is, to protect the entire amount of compensation that the person who has been detained receives and to make an exception that, if there are past debts to victims, they should of course first be settled.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-15	Madam President, I would like Mikael Strandman refers to debate articles as far back as 2007. This issue has been under discussion for a long time. I cannot answer for what happened in 2007-2008 when we had another government. But I can assure Mikael Strandman that this is a question of something that I have long wanted to change, which I want to change and which we will now be able to change. I would first like to say that there is a move in this interpellation about why the government has not done more and why the government has not done so in the past. I would just like to remind you that we have had a very high pace of reform in the area of justice policy in these years. Today, I signed the 205th bill submitted by the Ministry of Justice to Parliament – 205 bills and legislative proposals during these five years. We are talking about some thirty penalties, a massive increase in police training and investment in camera surveillance in places that are at risk for crime. On the victim side, I mention in my interpellation response that Victim Support Finland now has more money to move with than ever before. We have increased women's shelters by 400% in these years. We are also beginning to see effects on the judicial system in general. We did this in the last period. Now there is a new period ahead of us, and we are planning for that period. What will be the most important thing during this parliamentary term is to implement the 34-point programme, i.e. the targeted measures against gang crime. This point is not included in the 34-point programme, but we will be able to implement it anyway. My view is that it is fundamentally offensive that these assets cannot be foreclosed. I'll make it clearer what it's really about. We may have a situation where a gang-critical person has been convicted of a number of crimes and has been sentenced to pay damages to, for example, the victims. But there are no foreclosed assets in his account, and so he cannot pay anything. After a while, he becomes a suspect of new crimes, is arrested for them and is in custody for a while. If these crimes are not prosecuted, he will receive damages or compensation for the time he has been detained. It can be quite large amounts. For the first month it is perhaps 30 000 kroner and for the second month 20,000 kroner. If you sit in jail for six months and then you release the total amount can be up to 130 000 SEK tax-free. So no tax is paid on this money. Then the order is that, even if he is in debt to victims of crime, this money cannot be foreclosed. I think that, as I said, is offensive. I am therefore pleased that we have now received money in the investigation budget – the Government Office has a budget for investigations – so that we will be able to review this framework. We will also look at some other questions, which I mention in the interpellation answer. We will be able to change this during this term of office. I have asked my officials to write directives for this investigation, and we will come back as soon as we are finished with these directives so that Mikael Strandman can see what kind of changes it is that we want to make. But this is a reform that I really want to implement.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-21	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers, Minister. I am pleased that you are now on the verge of doing this. But I'm still a little perplexed. I have here an article from Swedish Radio two and a half years ago where you promised to quickly look at this and come back. After all, you have the resources, and this particular legislation is not so complicated. It would have been quite easy to come in with a bill to Parliament and get that approval. This is not a right-wing issue – a left-wing issue; I believe that most people see the moral error of this law, which means that the entire amount of damages is protected from foreclosure and that there are no exceptions for compensation to former victims of crime. So I still wonder why it has been so long. Is it perhaps the case that the Government does not think that the issue of prioritising victims over criminals is particularly important? If the Government had thought it was an important issue, I believe that this could have been done more quickly.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-24	Madam President, I would like It is also the case that not everything can be done at the same time. It is not just this issue that is important for victims; often they receive compensation from the Victims' Agency instead, if the person concerned is unable to pay. So to a large extent they get their money anyway. I think it's more important for victims to know that the offender is being taken, that the crime is being cleared up and that there is a conviction. It is more important to know that there are sufficient police resources and that there are criminal laws that are strong enough for the crimes to be cleared up. I think that's the most important thing for the victims of crime. There also needs to be good resources for crime victims' shelters and women's shelters, which we have now increased, as I have said. There's more money than ever in those systems. That is why we have given this particular priority. We are training three times as many police officers as we did five years ago, and we have started two new police training courses in Malmö and Borås. We have tightened the penalties in some thirty cases, including the crimes committed by the gang criminals – for example, gross gun crimes. They also apply to most serious violent crimes, the most serious drug offences and a large number of other crimes. I do not think, as I said, that any period in Swedish history can be found when there has been as high a pace of reform in the area of legal policy as the one we have had in the last five years. When you start a new period, you look at what you should do further. What things do we have to fix? Then I have seen that this is a question on which we should go. That is why we now have investigative money for this issue as well, and the investigation will not only deal with this issue – although I want it to be given priority, so that it quickly comes to Parliament – but the investigation will also look at, for example, an increase in the amount of compensation for violations in general. This also applies to compensation for relatives, where there is currently too little support, and a number of such issues. It is a question of generally giving victims a strengthened right to compensation, and it will be a major reform that will be before us during this term of office.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-29	Madam President, I would like What I can say is that it is gratifying that you have started with these improvements in this area, the Government. But I still think it's frightening that it's going to take almost systemic crime for you to come to the fore. You're saying it's just important for the victim to get money, and I don't really believe that. I think it is also important for the victim to see that the person who has injured you is actually being punished and not a lot of money. Had I been a victim of crime myself, I would have thought it very offensive if the criminal were to keep the money and not have to pay some of it to me with the debt he had to me as a victim. I therefore believe that it is important for this reason – to give redress to the victim, who can see that the criminal cannot keep this money without instead going to settle debts to former victims. It's a moral issue.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-31	Madam President, I would like Well, what I said is that perhaps the most important thing for a victim is to see that the crime is cleared up – that a person is convicted for it. Then there is a system where the damage suffered can also be compensated. It is clear that it is important that we make sure that we change the regulatory framework on this issue too, but, as I said, one thing at a time has to be taken. Nor is this an issue that the Swedish Democrats have pushed very hard, Mikael Strandman; you have not exercised on this issue during this term of office. However, this is an issue that I would like to address and which we want to change, and I have, as I said, asked my officials to start writing investigative directives so that during this period we can carry out a really good reform for victims, where this is part of it.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-33	Madam President, I would like Richard Jomshof has asked the Minister for Culture and Democracy and the Minister for Sport Amanda Lind if she would like to work towards holding a referendum on immigration policy in Sweden. The interpellation has been handed over to me. On 14 June 2019, the Government decided to set up a parliamentary committee to take a position on the future Swedish migration policy. All eight parliamentary parties, including the Swedish Democrats, participate in the committee. I note that migration policy is the subject of a wide-ranging debate and is dealt with in depth in the framework of the decision-making procedures provided by representative democracy. I do not, therefore, intend to promote such a referendum as Mr Jomshof calls for.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-37	Madam President, I would like Swedish immigration policy has been very extreme for a long time. It does not matter whether we make a comparison with our Nordic neighbours or whether we make a comparison with the rest of Europe. The reception of Swedish asylum is even greater than the total reception of our Nordic neighbours, and to this comes what I consider to be a massive and irresponsible family immigration. The result is clear: Sweden was once a safe, stable and homogeneous country but today is increasingly characterised by division, segregation, increased exclusion and increased insecurity. Stone throwings, car fires, assaults, assaults, personal robbery, sexual assaults, assaults and gang rapes have become increasingly common – not only in our immigrant-tight suburbs but also in the Swedish urban and street image in general. Added to this is accelerating Islamization, an imported anti-Semitism and an imported gross gang-related criminality with recurring settlements, shootings and blasts. At the same time, we can see how Swedish welfare is not enough, but is being demolished, as a direct consequence of this very policy. It has gone so far that Swedish immigration policy is even being called into question in our Nordic neighbours. One ridicules Sweden for our political orientation and for what one considers a dysfunctional leadership, and I agree. It is rightly done. More and more people and families are desperately trying to move away from these areas – from insecurity and violence, total schools and so on – but the problem is that there is soon no place to move. There is soon no municipality or country that is spared the problems of what I consider to be the damaging effects of mass immigration. This multi-culturalism experiment of the social liberals is destroying everything. Madam President, I would like Of course, I thank the Minister for Justice and Migration for the answer to my interpellation. However, I think it is inadequate, and I think it is wrong. It is not true that migration policy is the subject of wide-ranging debate – at least not if it means that it would be objective, objective or correct. Anyone who has dared to say or question what I believe to be a total madness has been ridiculed and discredited. Sometimes people have been threatened and beaten. Some have been expelled by their trade unions, and others have lost their jobs. At the same time, socialists and liberals, often using the media, have spread everything from beautiful paintings and half-truths to mere lies about immigration policy. It is remarkable that the Swedish people have never been asked about this – whether it wants this mass immigration, whether it wants this society and whether it wants to be part of what I consider to be a multiculturalism experiment. The Swedish people have never been asked about this. A series of studies that have been carried out since the beginning of the 1990s show, in fact, that this policy has been driven by a small minority. There has never been the support of the Swedish people in this matter. It is therefore strange that the Swedish people have not been asked whether they want this. They have sat on some sort of high horse and pushed through something that the Swedish people do not want. Sweden is being torn apart. We are entering a situation where the Swedish people are becoming a minority in their own country. It goes without saying to me, Madam President, that we are then transparent and clear about what is happening and that we are asking the Swedish people whether they want the destructive policy advocated by the Social Democrats, for example, or a more responsible policy advocated by the Swedish Democrats.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-46	Madam President, I would like We have no mass immigration to Sweden. The truth is that the number of asylum seekers is the lowest in 13 years, and of those who come to Sweden and apply for asylum, the percentage is 27%. It is therefore more than two thirds of those who apply for asylum who actually do not receive asylum and are therefore allowed to leave Sweden. Richard Jomshof paints a dark picture of the development of crime. It is correct that we have problems with gang crime and with shootings and explosions. There we have a major action programme that we started to start already last term of office with more police officers, increased penalties, increased camera surveillance and better tools for the police. We simply have to stamp out gang crime from the affected areas; it is one of our most important issues. But one must also have some sense and balance in the rhetoric. I say – and this is the case – that there is a lower risk of being killed in Sweden today than it was 30 years ago. This is because per capita lethal violence has been reduced. We have about a hundred cases of deadly violence a year, and we have had that for quite a long time. At the same time, the population has increased. This does not rhyme well, I would say, with the very dark picture of disaster that Mr Jomshof so badly wants to paint. We do not have mass immigration, but we are back in a situation where we have control of those who come to Sweden. We shall retain this control. We need a long-term approach to migration policy. That is why we appointed the parliamentary committee, and there are the Swedish Democrats. Richard Jomshof's own party chairman Jimmie Åkesson is on this committee to discuss, among other things, what to do after the temporary law expires. After all, we tightened the legislation so that it is now down to the minimum level of the European Union. The question is what the regulatory framework should be like when the legislation expires in two years' time. I can assure everyone who listens to this debate that I will not contribute to once again losing control in the way we did in 2015. That's not where we're going again. Richard Jomshof wants a referendum. What would the alternatives in that referendum look like? The question of the Swedish Democrats would well be that we should either receive immigrants or that we should not receive any immigrants. One should know that the second option, not to receive any immigrants, would in practice mean that Sweden can reach out from a wide range of international contexts. After all, we cannot remain in Europe, and the same applies to the international conventions that the UN has set up. Nor can we remain in the Council of Europe. These would be the consequences if we, like North Korea, were to pull down the blind, close the borders and say that no human being should be allowed to come to Sweden. That is why these issues are suitable for a parliamentary committee. I do not think that Mr Jomshof can produce an alternative in a referendum that could take these nuances into account. We have 60 million refugees in the world – men, women and children who can perish if they do not have the opportunity to get a place of refuge. The experience of World War II was precisely that all countries in such situations should stand up to help those fleeing torture, war or other hardships. This is the right of asylum – the right to seek asylum and to be protected in the event of persecution or death. I intend to protect that right of asylum.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-55	Madam President, I would like Both the number and the proportion of those born abroad in Sweden have increased sharply. In 2000, the share of foreign born good 10 per cent of the population. Today it is almost 20%, and asylum seekers and illegal immigrants are not included. It is therefore a doubling of 20 years, and then we are talking only about those who are born abroad. That in the past there has been a fairly large proportion of foreign born in Sweden from neighbouring countries such as Finland, Poland or Norway is no wonder, because they are just neighbouring countries and countries with which we have a common history. This applies not least to Finland, with which we have a 600-year history. As we know, there is also a Swedish minority in Finland. There is much that unites us and our neighbours. But the most common country among those born abroad in Sweden is no longer Finland, but Syria and Iraq have overtaken Finland. Then we are not talking about a change in hundreds of years, like the one we have had with Finland, but about a few decades or just a few years. The result is clear; we see it in suburbs and in municipalities in the form of exclusion, segregation, division, breakdown of welfare, violence and Islamisation. Madam President, I would like There has, of course, always been immigration to Sweden, and it is clear that there should be immigration to Sweden continue. One can take up the 50s and 60s as a clear example of when people came from Europe to Sweden to work in Swedish industry. That immigration was something we needed – it was beneficial, unlike the immigration we see now, which is tiring. That is exactly the opposite, hence the problems we are seeing today. It is clear that the Minister for Migration does not understand the problem of the policy that is actually being pursued. The Social Democrats are de facto responsible for the problems we are seeing today. Every time a young boy is beaten or robbed and every time a young girl is abused or, at worst, even raped by a group, it is a consequence of this policy, and then the Social Democrats bear indirect responsibility for the incident. In a issue of Dagens Samhälle from 2012 you can read the article. In the article, Stefan Löfven and the Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board speak about the social democraticly governed municipality. Then what makes the municipality so special? What has happened in Botkyrka that makes you want what is happening there today to happen in Sweden tomorrow? What happened? What makes it so special? If you read the article you can see that it is Sweden's most international municipality, that the Swedes are in the minority and that ethnic diversity is a growth factor. One can also read that the lintots never return and that the new composition of the population here is seen as desirable and forward-looking. It is therefore desirable and forward-looking that the Swedes become a minority in their own country. There we have, if I interpret the article correctly, the Sweden of the future if the Social Democrats are allowed to decide. Suddenly I begin to understand why we have just over 2 million foreign born people in Sweden. It is the future of Sweden that is being built. Moreover, when the situation is such that the Social Democrats are losing voters, new obedient socialists who are willing to vote for the Social Democrats will have to fill in. I can have full respect for thinking so. It's okay; you have to think so. I'm not doing it, though, but I think it's really strange. It would still be nice to ask the Swedish people whether or not they are in favour of this policy and whether the Swedish people are willing to give away their own country, because that is exactly what it is all about. I think it is deeply undemocratic and deeply contemptuous of the Swedish people not to do so.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-66	Madam President, I would like Then we have heard this rhetoric one more time. This is not the first time it has been spoken in this way. I am working in a tradition of solidarity, humanity, international cooperation and equal value for all. This is what fundamentally governs the Social Democratic Party. Richard Jomshof works in a different tradition. This tradition is based on cultivating hatred, on cultivating mistrust between ethnic groups, on inciting immigrants, on blaming all the social problems that can be found at all, and on pointing out that group, and on portraying people who have another ethnic background as giftless, as stupid, as less worth and as dangerous. This is all the way through the rhetoric of the Swedish Democrats almost always. This is what it is about – the scapegoat thinking. All the problems are to be blamed on the immigrants. Richard Jomshof forgets that of the people we are talking about, it is today over 1 million employees in the Swedish labour market who were born in other countries. Richard Jomshof speaks of tiring. Thus, we are talking about industrial workers, nurses, teachers, doctors and shop workers – hundreds of thousands of people born abroad but who every day go to work to work for the country that is our common home – Sweden. They work for you, Jomshof, they work for me, they work for us, they work for our children and they will work for us as we get older and one day go into care for the elderly. Then the Jomshof says that now we are going to vote on immigration and campaign for or against immigration. There have been such campaigns in the past in Sweden. I just put down Ola Larsmos book The Devil Sonata, which deals with rhetoric in the 1930s and how to run campaigns precisely against, for example, Sweden during that time to receive Jews. The most famous meeting was in Uppsala Student Union 1939, Bollhusmötet. Then it was about whether Sweden would accept a group of Jewish doctors from Germany. At that time, Madam President, Mr Jomshofar of that time went up to the pulpit and said exactly what Mr Jomshof said today. They warned of all the terrible things that would happen if Sweden were to do this. Strange peoples were called that at the time. Jomshof uses other words, but he means exactly the same thing. They said stop the Jew import. Jomshof uses other words, but he means exactly the same thing. Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats of that time stood on the other side. They said: We must show humanity and humanity in the world in which we live. Madam President, I would like This is neither the first nor the last time we have this debate; it will continue. What do you think happened after the war? Well, all the Jomshofar of that time ran and hid in the woods when it dawned on them what this kind of rhetoric had meant for real. Madam President, I would like My opinion is that Sweden should take responsibility for fleeing people, but no more than we can handle, not back to 2015, not in an unregulated and chaotic way, but with order and order but with preserved humanity and humanism.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-77	Madam President, I would like There is a great deal to be said about the last speech by the Government. That's remarkable. But I'm not surprised because that's how it usually sounds from the government, a basically rather unpleasant and rude person who has difficulty sticking to factual and correct rhetoric. Well, new bleak record: 45 were shot dead in 2018, woman in her 30s dead after gunfire in Malmö, boy in his 13-14s shot in Huskvarna, union stops and no guards work in Rinkeby, 112 children have been robbed in Gothenburg only this year, 50 young people hold Växjö city hostage, suspected gang rape in Stockholm. This list, Madam President, can be made hugely long. This is just a small selection after a few simple searches that I did last night. It is a small selection that clearly shows what the policy that Morgan Johansson represents has led to. It is very clear what a huge failure multicultural society is in fact. The growing exclusion, the increased fragmentation, the increased segregation and the increasingly violent and insecure society are linked to the policies represented by the Social Democrats and Morgan Johansson. I regret that the Minister of Justice and Migration does not seem to understand this. I also regret the very low level of rhetoric, because if one were to talk about what actually happened in the 1930s, that would not be at all the beauty of the Government's painting. On the contrary, the Social Democrats were a party that crept rather obediently after the German Nazis. One final comment as to whether or not immigration is falling: this year we can perhaps count on 100 000 people to Sweden, that is, 1% of Sweden's population in one year. It is like a city of Helsingborg's size to Sweden in one year.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-82	Madam President, I would like I think I can live with Richard Jomshof thinking I'm rude and rude. As soon as you give some counter-attack to the Swedish Democrats, you hear that. But perhaps it is time to set your foot against you in a slightly clearer way, so that you can feel what it is about when you really oppose your argumentation. Richard Jomshof, go to the concentration camps in Germany and read the lists of dead Social Democrats and trade unionists who ended up there when the Nazis took over! Then we can talk about history. Don't stand here and try to do some falsification of history, history revision, because that debate you're going to lose. Madam President, I would like It doesn't matter to me whether you're black or white. If you commit a crime, you'll be locked up. It must be the same rules that apply directly. Here we differ, because in practice the Swedish Democrats do not care about crimes that Swedes commit. I never see Swedish democrats react when it is an ethnic Swede who has committed a crime, but you use criminal policy to push forward issues in your immigration policy. It is not the crimes you are opposed to, it is immigration. That's what separates us. The work that we have now begun to put into the sea in combating gang crime will continue. I am convinced that with the right resources, more tools for the police and tougher penalties, we will be able to stamp out even the most serious gang crime. But do not confuse this with any general debate on immigration! I'm not up for that.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-86	Madam President, I would like The number of adults without asylum reasons who were granted residence permits by the government last year with the so-called High School Act was 7,250. The law was severely criticised by the Bar Association, SKL, UNICEF and the police. The most upset of them all was the Law Council. It said that the limit has been reached for what is acceptable in terms of how legislation can be drafted. But you did not allow yourself to be stopped. You baxed the law through the Parliament. The Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats voted against. Now reality has caught up. The National Board of Health and Welfare is alerting us about homelessness and prostitution. Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils stated last week that the current situation is unsustainable, as they write. They warn of widespread mental illness and growing parallel societies. Then what does the government do? The Minister of Justice's only answer to the criticism is that, as he says, the law applies. There is no need for a review. Everyone is now being harmed by politics. Decennials of ill-considered twitching must be brought to an end. In Sweden, the simple principle must prevail: A yes should be a yes, and a no a no. Anyone who comes here should know that you are expected and welcome to become a part of Swedish society. Anyone who is refused must leave the country, not get stuck in homeless or parallel societies. My question to the Prime Minister is against this background: what is the Prime Minister's response, now and in this House, to the distress calls of Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-91	Madam President, I would like It is the government with the Social Democrats and the Green Party that has changed migration policy. The one that existed before, and also during the previous government that Ulf Kristersson was part of, was not sustainable. We got a situation in 2015 that we had to deal with. That is why we have changed migration policy. That is why it is more restrictive now. That is also why we see that the number of people seeking asylum in Sweden has fallen significantly from that time. At the same time, young people have an opportunity to get an education while they are here. We thought it was a rather humane reason. Educating young people does not hurt. I think it is too far to say that the increase in homelessness and prostitution has directly to do with legislation. That's taking it a long way. Migration policy is now firmly established. That's what it's gonna do. While we have the legislation, and we have extended the temporary one, a parliamentary committee will work out the new, sustainable migration policy. It includes eight of the eight parties in the Riksdag. I hope we can work together on it. I hope that all parties will present their proposals in the committee work, and we will have to develop a long-term sustainable migration policy. I hope that the Moderates will be able to participate all the way in this work so that we can conclude a broad agreement on a long-term sustainable migration policy.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-95	Madam President, I would like I did not understand the clear answer to the question: What is the Prime Minister doing about SKL's distress call? The Upper Secondary Education Act should never have been introduced. The absolute worst thing that the government could do now is to move to regular amnesty. That would be dangerous and wrong in principle. It would send a message to the outside world that Sweden is a country that sometimes grants amnesties and makes Sweden even more interesting and attractive for asylum seekers without asylum reasons. My second question to the Prime Minister, with the hope of better luck this time, is: Can the Prime Minister here and now guarantee that amnesty is not relevant to the group we are talking about?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-98	Madam President, I would like I've just explained. Now we have a policy in place. We have extended the temporary law for two years. The parliamentary committee is set up. Eight parties meet to discuss what a sustainable policy should look like. That's the deal. Then I hope that, unlike in other discussions, the Moderates will be able to keep their distance so that we can have a broad agreement.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-100	Madam President, I would like I would argue that migration policy is the great question of destiny of our time, given what it has meant for all parts of society. There are enormous costs that go out over welfare but also social problems in the form of segregation, exclusion, division in society and so on. Now, as we heard in the previous question here, we have had a slightly new situation in our country where the government parties finally felt compelled to do something because the situation became unsustainable. That is something that I think everyone welcomes. We have temporary legislation. We have a committee to look at the longer term migration policy. That's good. The question has now been put to the Prime Minister a number of times in recent weeks. The Prime Minister expresses the view that we should have less immigration than we have today. On the other hand, the Deputy Prime Minister has countered this with the fact that we should have more immigration than we have today. Madam President, I would like The simple question to the Prime Minister, to whom I feel that no one has received a real answer yet, is: What is the government's position? Should we have more immigration, or should we have less immigration?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-104	Madam President, I would like Let's do it again. We have changed the migration policy. It's more restrictive now. It must be sustainable in the long term. We have extended the temporary law for two years. Over the two years, we will work out a broad agreement on a long-term sustainable migration policy. There are eight parties. The Government Declaration, which I read out a while ago in the Riksdag, states as follows: Swedish migration policy must be legally secure, effective and humane. Policy must be broadly based. A parliamentary committee has been commissioned by the government to make proposals for a long-term sustainable migration policy. The right of asylum must be protected. ..................................................... It's government policy. It is our two parties that have changed migration policy. It is our two parties that tabled the temporary law. It is our two parties that have put forward proposals for the extension of the temporary law and the appointment of the committee that is now to work. It is the government's formal policy in the area of migration. Let us now work to ensure a long-term sustainable and broad agreement on migration policy. That must now be our task.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-109	Madam President, I would like I agree that this must be our task. That's not what I asked for. My question was that regardless of what the Prime Minister put forward in the government declaration, it is clear that it has been interpreted differently by our two government parties, where one party claims that immigration should be reduced and the other party, that is, the Green Party, believes that immigration should be increased. Unfortunately, the answer here is not clear. That is why I have to ask the question again: what is the government's view? Should immigration be smaller than it is today, or should it be larger than it is today? It can't be very difficult to answer that question. It's very concrete.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-112	Madam President, I would like The government's policy is exactly what I read out. That is how we have eight parties sitting on a parliamentary committee, and I assume that eight parties are also expressing what they want the future policy to look like. It will finally be decided in the committee - I hope. I hope that the Committee will be able to reach a broad agreement, and I assume that all eight parties will give their views on what it will look like in the future. What applies here and now is government policy. I have explained that policy in my first speech, and that is what applies. Point.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-114	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we have seen for far too long how shoplifters repeatedly steal from shops, how youth gangs harass and interfere at libraries around Sweden and how women and girls are subjected to violations and sexual harassment in bathhouses. Unfortunately, we can also say that it is not often the same offenders who commit crimes, who interfere with activities and who can also return to the same place and do the same thing again. It's totally untenable. In 2017, the Center Party already made a motion in the Riksdag to impose an entry ban in stores so that those who have been convicted of stealing or misbehaving in a store can be denied entry again – simply ported. We have also proposed a ban on access to swimming pools for persons who, for very good reasons, may have been suspected of misbehaviour. Now the government has also investigated the issue of a ban on access. The proposal of the investigation is welcomed by the Swedish Commerce Federation, the Swedish Local Authorities and the Swedish Police Authority. My question to the Prime Minister is: when will we see a sharp government bill to actually introduce this so that we can take further much-needed steps on the road to creating and building a new security for everyone?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-117	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Annie Lööf on that description of reality. We have to do something about this, and that was why the investigation was set up. Then, of course, the government will have to prepare on the basis of the investigation response. What are the pros and cons of different solutions? Not only are there black and white, but there are different views on the effectiveness of various proposals. We will therefore prepare this, but we have no ambition other than that of Annie Lööf: If you do not behave in a public place, it must be seen. We do not accept any behaviour in public places. We must be able to prepare this in the usual order, so that is why, unfortunately, I cannot give a date when such a proposal comes. But we're working on it.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-121	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Of course, legislation must be carefully analysed and legally secure. At the same time, however, this issue has been highlighted for many years. Exercises have been put here in Parliament, and it has been debated. Swedish Commerce, for example, has been calling for this for a number of years. The police are in favour of the proposal. What the investigation proposes is precisely that a decision on a possible ban on access should be taken by prosecutors to counter arbitrariness and to safeguard legal certainty. In view of the fact that a great many people over the years have pointed out problems of harassment, repeated crime and disorder of order, we must be able to take steps forward here. I hear what the Prime Minister is saying, and I would just like to emphasise the importance of this issue once again. Can the Prime Minister promise that a legislative proposal in this area is a priority for the government and something that can be presented to Parliament as quickly as possible?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-124	Madam President, I would like Since it is this government that is now addressing the issue, we must at the same time be able to work as the Constitution says we should work, that is, structured and systematic so that we have a basis for consideration once we go to a decision with a proposal for a proposal. So I cannot give you a timetable. The work is in progress, and it is clear that we want all the legislation that we are working on as quickly as possible. I noted at today's government meeting that we decided on bill 205, I think it was, from the Ministry of Justice since we took office – bill 205! So we are working with a number, and we are working as fast as we can ever.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-127	Madam President, I would like Next year the military tax will disappear, and it is mainly rich men in Danderyd and Djursholm who will be the clear winners of the government's budget. They can buy another SUV and happy cork up and toast in the champagne. At the same time, we receive reports from the municipality after the municipality of large reductions. In the care of the elderly it is reduced on staff. The old get to spend more and more hours alone. The fees for food are increased. The possibilities for outdoor stay are withdrawn. It has even been discussed to lower the indoor temperature of retirement homes. But it is not just elderly care that is affected. The children and the school are also affected. In Nordmaling, the open preschool is closed. In Stockholm, preschools are also affected. In Gothenburg, there will be fewer special educators in high school, and in some places the homework help is pulled in completely. At the same time, at Tjörn, a municipality where the number of pupils increases, 45 posts will be removed in the school area. These are some of the many examples. Last spring, the Prime Minister was here at Q & A and talked about the government investing in welfare – special investments in health care and school and general investments in the municipalities as a whole. But things are going in the wrong direction. Sloped military tax gives 6 billion less in the Treasury. Four out of five municipalities will reduce their activities next year. My question to the Prime Minister is: When will the substantial efforts on welfare that the Prime Minister talked about at Question Time this spring?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-132	Madam President, I would like An important initiative was already launched in the last parliamentary term. At that time, an investment of SEK 35 billion was made for Swedish welfare. We now have 100 000 more employees in Swedish welfare compared to when the government took office. We must continue to do this, and that is why there will be a further general 20 billion in this term of office. As I said earlier, several initiatives are being made especially at school, health care, care for the elderly and so on. With regard to the defence tax, it is important to bear in mind that no matter which of the two government options mentioned in January had been removed. There were three right-wing conservative parties who agreed that the defence tax would be removed at that time, and we got it as part of the January agreement that was concluded. It should also be remembered that a major redistribution in our society is taking place in the welfare system. That's what makes it possible for ordinary people to actually get care when they want it, school and care for the elderly when the parents grow old and so on. The welfare system itself is therefore redistributive, and then there were two choices in the Swedish parliament last winter: an option where the defence tax is removed and you do not make these investments in welfare and another one where the defence tax is also removed but where investments in welfare exist as a very strong pillar. We intend to continue with this throughout this term of office. We know that we will have to do more, and we will come back to that. But it is about 20 billion in general support for municipalities and in addition special investments in the respective welfare sector.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-137	Madam President, I would like It is true that there was an increase in the equality of budgets during the last parliamentary term. It is also true that 6 billion less in the Treasury due to the abolition of military tax was included in this option and perhaps in another option. The Prime Minister has talked about increasing general welfare. Yet it is 6 billion in reduced revenues that protect those who have the most and 5 billion in general spending on welfare. This also affects S-controlled municipalities. Ludvika municipality is cutting back on care for the elderly. There's 12 million in a year. It's a lot in a small municipality. There will be further reductions in 2020. Another municipality where S runs is Hudiksvall, where you will reduce by 60-70 million in the coming years. They still invest more in the rich in Danderyd and Djursholm than in the welfare. When are the bets coming, Prime Minister?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-141	Madam President, I would like The efforts started last term of office, and they continue. Just add up what is done on reductions in pensioner's tax, increases in pensions and increases in the ceilings on housing allowances. They are similar to what is being done. Add to that what is done for the general grants to municipalities and county councils, and add what is done for the school, health care and so on, so there are quite different numbers when compared to the military tax. It is still the general welfare system that guarantees the redistribution in society, and that is why the government, in cooperation with the Centre Party and the Liberals, has a programme for these efforts throughout the term of office, not only this year but also next year and next year.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-143	Madam President, I would like This week I spoke to Mikael Ovrell, who runs a convenience store in Kortedala. He's a trader, just like his father and grandfather before him. The family has been running the store since 1952. But Mikael has been thinking about closing down. In just a few years, the crimes have completely exploded. At most, there could be six to seven incidents a day in his store. Mikael has been threatened and harassed, and his staff has been threatened and attacked. The staff have been harassed. For what? Because they sell potatoes, baby sausages and locally produced tomatoes to those living in the neighborhood. A man whom Mikael recognizes well is convicted six times for stealing only in that particular store. After the last verdict, it only took 12 hours before he was in the store again. With an entry ban, the trader could call the police immediately when a known criminal enters the store door. A bill is ready. It was referred and ready in March. Although the question has already been asked in the past, I would still like to ask the question again. What makes such a proposal for a ban on access impossible before Christmas? Some of the objections have been about freedom of movement and freedom of movement, but what happens when the free movement of criminals is protected more than the right to property and the right to free movement? What makes it impossible for the government to present a sharp proposal to Parliament before Christmas?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-148	Madam President, I would like It may be boring, but I'll have to give the same answer as Annie Lööf. It is clear that we have the same idea of how to behave in public places, in public and with other people, to show respect and not behave in any way. That is why the legislative proposal is being drawn up gradually. But the Constitution obliges the government to make the preparation to be made. It is the responsible minister who knows the timetable. I don't know the timetable. There are a number of proposals to be dealt with in the Government Office, and I do not have that timetable. But we're working as fast as we can ever be. 205 proposals have been prepared by the Ministry of Justice and the government has since decided on since we took office. It must probably be considered to be really good work because there is a lot to be done. We fully agree that crime must be combated. That is why we have increased the penalties for some thirty crimes, and that is why we are bringing so much resources to the police. There will be more police so that it will be faster for them to get there when Mikael calls. There is at least a doubling of the number of police officers being trained now compared to before. Soon there'll be a triple. Now there are 500 to 700 police officers every six months. Last spring about 560 police officers were hired. That is how we have to address this issue, and legislation we are working on as quickly as ever. But there is a processing requirement under the Constitution, which is why I cannot give an exact date.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-154	Madam President, I would like Not today, not tomorrow, but one day. That's what it sounds like. Those are the same words that the 21-year-old girl who worked at the store in Kortedala was told by the criminals who held her and said: Not today, not tomorrow, but one day when you go home we will rape you. They're the same men who show up at the store every week. The proposal for a ban on access is in a drawer at the Ministry of Justice, completed, investigated. The proposal is submitted and clear, and this has been the case for almost six months. Once again, we get black and white, right from the Prime Minister, Madam President, that when the government wants something done, it can be done. We have seen it with the amnesty law, which Ulf Kristersson debated earlier, and we have seen it with regard to the military tax, but to ensure basic security and that one should not be subjected to that kind of harassment just because one runs honest trade nothing happens.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-157	Madam President, I would like The last was not a question but well-received rhetoric. It may have happened if Ebba Busch Thor wants to give himself to it. I have the same answer as before, namely that we are working as quickly as we can ever do. Nothing's in the drawer. But there are quite a few legislations to go through. We share the view on the problem, and as soon as possible the legislation will be developed. No other answer can I give.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-161	Madam President, I would like For us Liberals, it is easy to reconcile the issues of vulnerable places. It is about people who trade, our bathhouses and our public and common libraries that are for knowledge, not to be heating cabins for felons. My question from the Liberals is more about the extensive international changes we see in terms of grosser crime. We see how globalisation and digitalisation affect so that everything becomes so much more complex. Despite huge efforts with 10 000 more police workers, sharpened tools for police and prosecutors so that they can move forward in individual investigations, more cooperation is still needed. Recently, under the leadership of the police, several law enforcement authorities presented a common picture of the situation pointing out that criminal networks are increasingly cross-border. They are using increasingly advanced digital tools. Not least our digital IDs are a crime tool for those who want to access individuals' money. This also applies to our welfare systems, our labour market, and drug and violent crime. The broad approach is clear. In connection with the cooperation and presentation of proposals by law enforcement authorities, an important desire is that all welfare authorities – in addition to carrying out their main mission, the right insurance, the right unemployment fund, the right service – should be involved in crime prevention and law enforcement.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-166	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that this issue has been raised because it is part of the fight against organised crime. We are determined to break the gangs, and that requires the whole of society, including the authorities, to engage in law enforcement activities. For example, the Swedish Tax Agency, Försäkringskassan and food inspectors in the municipalities must cooperate fully with police and other authorities. That's exactly what the police themselves say. There is now a cooperation between twelve authorities in and outside the judicial system. In 2015, the government decided to focus government cooperation locally, and it has borne success in some places in vulnerable areas. This will continue. Just as Johan Pehrson said, there is a common situation picture. They work with it, and they sit together in the police's own premises and share intelligence about individuals and other things. A total of 200 police employees are part of the job. In the 34-point programme against crime that has now been developed, paragraph 8 is precisely work to strengthen the joint work of the authorities against serious organised crime. Governance is part of this, and it will be developed so that more and more authorities get exactly the double assignment mentioned here – their own basic mission but also collaboration. Pilot projects will also be carried out in a number of vulnerable areas to develop even better strategies in this work.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-170	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. We must make sure that we really attack the serious crime that is eating into the very body of society. There are widespread frauds that we can see in reports, both those that can be read on the authorities' websites and those that we can take on the role of prime minister or member of the Committee on Justice. It is about CSN, LSS, unemployment benefit and other benefits from Försäkringskassan and new start jobs. There are a number of areas in which we must ensure that the mission of the granting authorities is also about preventing and, as a sub-mission, combating the crimes more operationally. Otherwise, fear will end. I hope that the Prime Minister will come back with a proposal in which all the authorities concerned are given a clear mandate to cooperate to prevent and also combat crime.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-173	Madam President, I would like We fully agree on the concern this is, and we should not let it get out of hand. It is the task of society to show its citizens that society is stronger than these gangs. That is why crime must be combated in a number of ways. This applies not least to financial crime, because it is a way for criminals to make a living and, unfortunately, in some cases, to live very well on this type of activity. This is taxpayers' money. They're going to welfare. If it is student aid or unemployment insurance matters less; they should go to the citizens of Sweden who pay tax. They should not go to organised crime. That is why governance is now being developed as more authorities are being given the same task of naturally doing their hobbies but also being involved in cooperation with the police and the other authorities. We're gonna crack this crime.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-178	Madam President, I would like By the end of September, 32 people have died at their workplace in Sweden. It is mothers and fathers, people whom someone loves, who, because of lack of protection and safety, will never come home again. That's 32 people too much. And this week we were able to read about another man who died on a construction site in Vallentuna. We Social Democrats drew early attention to the need to work to reduce the number of fatal accidents in working life. Last term of office, the government developed a first zero vision as part of a broad strategy on health and safety at work. Unfortunately, these measures have not been sufficient.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-181	Madam President, I would like Zero vision is extremely important to hold on to. No one should have to die on their job. That is why we started the last parliamentary term by making a substantial contribution to the Swedish Work Environment Authority to 150 inspectors. We are now raising the amount so that we can continue to employ more inspectors. Work life research was restarted after being removed by the previous government. We also give the police, in particular, better opportunities to inspect workplaces where it is suspected that there is simply no right to do so. We have now submitted a proposal to the Riksdag with a proposal that the maximum amount for corporate fines should be increased from SEK 10 million to SEK 500 million for serious crimes committed by larger companies. We propose that this should enter into force as early as 1 January 2020. We must continue to ensure that people are safe in their jobs.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-186	Madam President, the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Hundreds of thousands of people are on the run after Turkey's invasion of northern Syria and offensive against the Kurdish population with bombs, grenades and ground troops. There have been reports of over 100 dead people, including civilians. He wants to establish a so-called security zone in Syria, where he wants to move up to 2 million of the 3.6 million Syrian refugees in Turkey. The Kurds fear that the purpose is ethnic cleansing, and it is not difficult to share that concern or agree with that description of what is actually happening. It is good that Sweden has marked against Erdo中an together with the EU. It is good that we should stop exporting arms to Turkey and that aid should increase by 100 million. But what is happening now, and in what way will Sweden work for peace in the region and support the civilian population?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-189	Madam President, I would like Sweden was one of the first to clearly condemn what Turkey did with its military offensive in northern Syria. We are driving the EU to get the EU to act, not least by imposing an arms embargo, because what Turkey has done is a violation of international law. This, of course, makes it difficult for the civilian population, and it is very likely to make it easier for Daish to continue its operations. We have also worked in the UN Security Council, not least for the EU countries that are part of the Security Council – Germany, for example – to push the issue in the Security Council. If I remember correctly, it was raised as another issue, but we want to continue pushing the UN Security Council to take great responsibility in this matter so that the international community shows that this is not acceptable. In addition, it is important for us to ensure that there are humanitarian resources so that we can help people here and now. We will never give up without working for peace in northern Syria.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-193	Madam President, I would like Sweden will take its share of responsibility for those who are on the run in the world. People on asylum grounds will have a chance to build a new life here. But that chance commits. Anyone who does not comply with our laws but is guilty of more serious crimes must be considered to have exhausted our trust. That is not a hard line, Madam President. That's a fair line. A parliamentary majority has also called for tougher rules, where more cases will lead to expulsion. The Parliament has therefore been clear. The government doesn't. The Minister of Justice has promised an investigation, but we have not yet seen the smoke off. Time passes, and as it does, the government risks further undermining confidence in the rule of law. Time and again we are faced with cases where people can stay in Sweden even though they have committed abominable crimes such as rape. When will the Prime Minister put a stop to this?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-196	Madam President, I would like It is clear that people who commit serious crime should not have a place here but should be expelled. That's what we're talking about. That is also what is actually happening. One may think that this happens too rarely, but it is not so that it does not happen. It is not that you can do anything here and say that you have every right to remain. Nevertheless, let us note that. This also needs to be investigated, but, as I have said before, I believe that there are few departments that have so many proposals to work with. Not everything will be possible at the same time, but the Ministry and the Head of Department will have to deal with this in the order in which it can be done. But it is not the case that no one is expelled because of serious crime. Let us see when this can be taken forward. I can't give a date for exactly when that can happen.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-201	Madam President, I would like My question will relate to the first line change, which was with Ulf Kristersson. First of all, I would like to point out that although education for young people is of course something worthwhile, it can hardly be the task of Sweden to provide education to adults who have abused our asylum laws and come here despite the lack of asylum grounds, which is exactly what the High School Act is about. I must also say that the answer that Kristersson received astounded me with the arrogance that it showed towards Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils. It was dismissed that the criticism would affect the direct effects of the law. On point after point, fears and criticisms have been raised, and on point after point these have come true, directly linked to the law. In conclusion, SKL's debate article last week says that for a year and a half they have tried to interpret the law and try to get information from the government without receiving it. How long will Sweden's municipalities and county councils wait for the government to assume its responsibility for the laws that are introduced and the responsibilities imposed on municipalities?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-205	Madam President, I would like The answer is the same: this legislation has passed the Swedish parliament, and it applies. It is not that there is no question mark about other laws. Other laws, too, may well be perceived as unclear, and there may be uncertainty about the interpretation at the outset. It is probably quite common when it comes to new legislation. We don't duck for the problem. Municipalities and county councils must have more resources overall. But it is not possible in general to reduce education for the people who are allowed to stay in our country, as the Swedish Democrats are proposing. Then municipalities and county councils will have less resources to work with welfare, and it will be harmful to our welfare sector in the long term. So let us make sure that those who stay get to work! This requires more education, not less.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-207	Madam President, I would like In May 2018, a temporary consultant, as well as pronounced fighter opponents with positions of trust in the Swedish Carnivore Association, gained access to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's database Rovbase to clean out old notes concerning dead bears, among other things. The assignment was due to expire in 2018. In March 2019, however, the Jämtland County Administrative Board discovered that someone without authorisation made changes to the database. The consultant had thus after completed the task the opportunity to make hits in a confidential register of Swedish hunters who were involved in predator hunting. A notification to the Swedish Data Protection Authority regarding suspected data breach has now been submitted. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's poor handling of classified information is serious in several ways, not least with the Swedish Transport Agency in fresh memory. The threat to already vulnerable persons risks getting worse, but the management risks also leading to a decrease in citizens' confidence in Swedish authorities. How does the government intend to ensure that a similar security breach is not repeated within Swedish authorities?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-210	Madam President, I would like I do not know how to treat this as a general policy issue. The responsibility of the authorities to handle their information is clear. This must be done with integrity and the right protection, and that is why, for a number of years, we have been pushing against the authorities that they must be very careful with the information they have so that what has happened to a number of authorities is not repeated. We have increased the level of security, which means that the authority that possibly thinks that others should be able to handle certain information or handling must be very careful with that extension. I cannot answer exactly how it happened at this authority; I think the honourable Member understands that. However, the level of security of the authorities has generally been increased in cooperation with the police, defence and security police.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-213	Madam President, I would like During last Sunday's party leader debate, the Prime Minister and Jonas Sjöstedt smoked about the money that the EU is giving to Turkey. In retrospect, it turned out that it was Jonas Sjöstedt who was right: 25% of the EU money goes directly to the Turkish Treasury. Turkey also receives other money in so-called pre-accession aid, which it receives because it is a candidate country. The Prime Minister said at last week's EU meeting that he did not think that the money for Turkey should be stopped because the opposition in Turkey did not think it should be changed. I find it difficult to understand where the Prime Minister has got this. It is clear that the opposition is critical of Erdo中an and believes that the pressure on his regime should be increased. The ISP Authority has stopped arms exports to Turkey. That's good! We can also see that Saab has cooperated militarily with Turkey. One of the Prime Minister's closest employees, his planning manager, recently went to Saab. I wonder what the Prime Minister thinks of this.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-217	Madam President, I would like There is no money going to Turkey's treasury to make the country's government go well. There is money going to Turkey for refugees to be as good as they are in difficult conditions, or at least less. The money goes to children's education, housing and other things. If you take them away, we know who's affected. It is not Turkey's government but a number of millions of refugees. With regard to the EU and membership aid, it is possible that there are different oppositions. There is also a clear part of the opposition in Turkey that wants to maintain its link with the EU and realises that they are in a much worse situation if it is completely flawed. The support has been substantially reduced and goes, among other things, to civil society to develop its strength. I think this is a good effort being made in Turkey.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-219	Madam President, I would like Recently, the content of the Swedish National Agency for Education's proposals for new curricula for comprehensive school has been criticised because antiquity would be removed from the subject of history. But it is not only the proposal of antiquity that has given rise to protests. The new proposal also removes the clear references to the Bible and other religious records contained in today's curriculum for religious knowledge. In the light of the fact that much of our culture relates to the Bible – in, for example, lyrics, films and books – and that our society has a great deal of references to a Jewish-Christian foundation of value, this deletion, like the original proposal for the deletion of antiquity, appears strange and historyless. Madam President, I would like As the decision on the new curriculum lies with the government, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: Does the Prime Minister and the Government think it reasonable that, as the National Agency for Education proposes, the clear reference to the Bible and other religious records contained in the comprehensive school curriculum today?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-222	Madam President, I would like I don't think at this point I should go in and discuss exactly what the curricula should look like in school. We have an authority in charge of making proposals, and when they are on our table, we will prepare what we are going to decide on. I will not say here and now what should be involved and not be part of this curriculum. Let us follow the order we have and discuss it in the order it should take place.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-223	Madam President, I would like In April 2014, Stefan Löfven stood in front of thousands of listeners at the Assyrian New Year celebrations in Södertälje and promised that the government, if elected prime minister, would acknowledge Turkey's genocide against Assyrians, Armenians and other Christian minorities a hundred years ago. Stefan Löfven betrayed that promise. Then Isis came and began decapitating and murdering the Assyrians — the descendants of those who survived the first genocide — and other groups, such as Yazidians. Once again, Stefan Löfven refused to call Isis acts genocide. The government also did not want to send direct payments to minorities so that they could survive. Today, the Assyrian New Year's celebration can hardly take place in Turkey, Iraq or Syria – but in Sweden. At the same time, we see that the largest group of extremists in Sweden are violent Islamists – at least 2 000 people, according to Säpo. I therefore wonder, Madam President, whether the Prime Minister can answer my question. We are informing today about the crimes of the Nazis and Communists against humanity. Is the Prime Minister going to work to ensure that we also inform schoolchildren about Islamists' crimes against humanity?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-227	Madam President, I would like I think it's the school's job to tell you what history looks like. The question was whether we should legally say that this is a genocide. We probably agree on how we view what happened in connection with the disintegration of the Ottoman Empire — the murdering and the horrors that people suffered. The question was whether the government would legally express that it was a genocide. This has been investigated by the people who I believe are the best experts. They advised us not to do just that, for very few governments have done so. On the other hand, it is important to note that there have been terrible abuses of people. Today, the Swedish Government also supports minorities and humanitarian aid in these countries.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-230	Madam President, I would like The entry of a recession should not be exaggerated, but now that the curves do not point so sharply upwards, there is time to prepare for the future and avoid the real valleys. It is the people who are the weakest in the labour market who can leave first. One such group is the young. According to the Employment Service, youth unemployment has turned around, albeit rather modestly. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: what does the government intend to do to ensure the safety of young people, for example, in a declining economy?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-232	Madam President, I would like During the last term of office, youth unemployment decreased, although it is still far too high. It was too high then, and we are now in danger of going into a slowdown in the economy, and then we must be prepared to give young people opportunities. An active labour market policy is therefore important. There must be measures to ensure that young people are in direct contact with the labour market, and there must also be educational opportunities. That is why we are now adding additional places to the Knowledgelift, for example, so that we will soon be up to 100,000 training places. We want to continue to increase this, because it is important. For many young people, further education is probably the key. That is the long-term best that young people can do, and that is why we are going to provide them with good educational opportunities. It is therefore wrong, as is done in the budgets of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats, to reduce this type of action. It would be devastating for our young people.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-236	Madam President, I would like If you are of age, you should be fully responsible for your actions. In fact, these are not my words, but Stefan Lövven's words from as late as the other year, and they refer to the penalty rebate that is being given today to people who are 21 years old. It is a rather strange invention, because if you are of age you are, as the Prime Minister pointed out, of full age. Unfortunately, it also means that very many victims in Sweden today do not get the redress they actually deserve. Now we've had gang talks. I entered into those negotiations with the very proposal presented by the Prime Minister the other year. But then it suddenly turned out that the Social Democrats were not at all interested in it anymore and did not want to agree to it. Instead, it was suddenly the Green Party's line, which finally landed in what the government itself described as a marginal change. What has caused the Prime Minister to change his mind in such a short time? Or is it that the Prime Minister has one opinion, the party leader another and the private person a third?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-239	Madam President, I would like You're supposed to stand up for your actions, and then there's a penalty set for crimes. What we have discussed in the group that Johan Forssell was in – and I understand that the Moderates largely support the conclusions reached by the group – also included whether or not to remove the penalty discount. We have said that we are prepared to do so for serious crime. I think Johan Forssell knows that there are those who say that it is not best to completely remove the so-called penalty rebate because young people with long prison sentences often remain in crime. So there is a balance to be balanced here. However, we believe that for serious crime there is every incentive to remove it, and it is part of this to stand up for one's actions.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-242	Madam President, I would like Mining and minerals and the entire value chain within the mining cluster is an important industry in Tornedalen, Norrbotten and Sweden. A friend of order may object that it is a bit presumptuous for a simple Member of Parliament to stand here in Parliament's pulpit and point this out to the Prime Minister – a Prime Minister who has chaired the miners' union IF Metall and sometimes speaks warmly for the mining industry's key role in the work on sustainable development and climate change. But the truth is, this is exactly what I need to do. I and many with me have tried in vain to ask the former and the current Minister for Economic Affairs when the government intends to start deciding the type of processing concessions applied for. The answer is always the same since 2016, when the North Kärr case was decided at the end of the year. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: when does the Prime Minister's second government intend to start deciding on these matters?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-245	Madam President, I would like I fully understand the question and the commitment. It also illustrates a little of the difficulty of this. There are essentially two interests here that collide. One is that we should have the most efficient use of our natural resources. That is also why we are reviewing the existing legislation. The second is quite different interests that want to take greater account of the environmental impact that this entails. There are two conflicting interests. We need to get them to work together. We have been endowed with metals and minerals and also with forests. Our natural resources will be used as well as possible. But we need to bring these two opposing interests together and find a solution that can suit both.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-249	Madam President, I would like An infrastructure that holds Sweden together is necessary for us to be able to live and operate across the country. We live in an elongated country on the outskirts of Europe, with a small export-dependent economy. For us flying is necessary to hold all parts of the country together. In recent times, there have once again been a little different information about where the government is on the issue of Arlanda and Bromma. The Minister for Infrastructure says that Arlanda will be expanded. A few hours later, a very angry Minister for the Environment and Climate Action says that this is not the case and that it is not the government's policy but the Social Democrats. Again, this is a little worrying.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-252	Madam President, I would like As is rightly pointed out, a strong infrastructure is very important. It's about cars, trains, shipping and flights. As far as aviation is concerned, the expansion of Arlanda airport has been investigated. The simple answer, as both ministers have said, is that the government has not yet made a decision about Arlanda. That decision remains to be made. Until further notice, we are working to ensure that the environmental impact of aviation can be as small as possible through, among other things, better fuel. The airline tax is decided and so on. That work continues, and when the basis for the decision is clear, the government will of course make decisions, but both ministers have clearly stated that no decision has yet been taken by the government.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-255	Madam President, I would like The Social Democratic-led government has gradually expanded the free dental care for young adults during the last term of office to provide free dental care to all young people up to the age of 23 as of this year, 2019. I now see in the Christian Democratic Budget Movement that we want to remove the dental support for our country's young people. This worries me because it is an urgent reform which means that many young people can have good dental status, including those who study and may not have such a good economy. I therefore wonder whether the Prime Minister can assure us here and now that the government will not propose anything similar and thus remove an important welfare reform for the country's young people.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-257	Madam President, I would like I am proud that during the last parliamentary term we were able to raise the age limit for free dental care to also include 20 to 23-year-olds. I will not help to make it more expensive for young people to go to the dentist again. This is an important preventive measure for better dental health later in life. But it is clear that there are different views in this House as to what welfare actually is. For us, it is well-being to have free dental care for these young people, as well as for the elderly. For us it is important to have free mammography for women and so on. That's why we're going to fight for this. That is what is prosperity and what we should stand up for. Social democracy guarantees that welfare is always a priority.
i-08aead631e8b1d63-260	Madam President, I would like We are currently facing the greatest challenge of our time. We are looking around the world at examples of climate change, which have led children and young people to wonder what politicians are really doing. That the climate should be treated with great respect and as a priority and important issue, few disagree nowadays. Rather, it is about the way in which one chooses to meet this challenge. It is therefore obvious to me and the Moderates that every bet will make the greatest possible use of the climate. Madam President, I would like My question to the Prime Minister is based on the debate on climate change, which took place in the Chamber yesterday. Why does the government choose to spend billions on a project that the National Audit has condemned as ineffective to reduce emissions?
i-08aead631e8b1d63-263	Madam President, I would like I do not share that view. We have thousands of projects around our country. It's about setting up solar cells. It's about wind power, biogas plants, charging poles and everything else that's going on around the country. I usually say it's a peoples' movement that we're now running. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's assessment is that this reduces emissions by 1 1⁄2 million tonnes, if I remember correctly. That's pretty good. That's a lot. So we're doing our part. When we do our part in terms of both climate and industrial life, we will be ahead. And when we are ahead, we have the opportunity to sell our know-how and sell products that we develop here in Sweden. Then we do climate benefit in other countries while contributing to jobs and well-being here at home. That bet is good. We're going to continue with it. It is a good way for Sweden to show that we are at the forefront of, as it is pointed out, the most important issue we have.
