i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-7	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me four questions about how Sweden intends to act before the UN climate negotiations COP 25 in Madrid on 2 – 13 December. I would like to begin by expressing great pleasure and gratitude that Chile and Spain have found a way to enable the negotiations to be held on time. It is not an easy thing to organise such a large meeting in such a short time. This demonstrates the strength of the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement and the fact that the parties stand up for international cooperation. Jens Holm has asked me about the Swedish position before COP 25. Sweden's main objective with COP 25 is to strengthen the political momentum created in 2019 so that the need for stronger action is clearly reflected in the commitments and long-term climate strategies that the countries will present next year. For Sweden, it is important that the countries that are parties to the Paris Agreement are able to fully implement the Paris Agreement, and therefore we are pushing for the conclusion of the negotiations on rules and implementation of international voluntary cooperation mechanisms in the Paris Agreement Rule Book during this year's meeting. For Sweden, it is crucial that a robust regulatory framework is developed that ensures that the mechanism becomes an ambitious framework that ensures environmental integrity in the cooperation and where double counting of emissions does not occur. The Parties will also negotiate a new gender equality plan under the United Nations Convention on Climate Change. Sweden wants the countries to adopt a concrete, effective and long-term action plan for strengthening gender equality in decision-making in the UNFCCC and in the implementation of the Paris Agreement. Chile has announced that this will be a good COP, and as the Presidency of the Madrid meeting they will have a special focus on the link between sea and climate. It is an issue that has received more attention in recent times, not least through the UN Panel on Climate Change's worrying report on the sea and cryosphere – that is, the part of the earth that consists of ice and snow. COP 25 will be an important opportunity to highlight the conclusions of the report and give a strong political signal on the importance of bringing together discussions on the sea and climate. During this year's meeting, countries will also review the so-called Warsaw mechanism for the damage and losses caused by climate change. Sweden wants to see the review come out in that the mechanism can continue to function as a platform for exchanging knowledge about damage and losses, thus creating a better understanding of how damage and losses can be avoided, minimized and remedied. Sweden and the EU support those most affected by climate change, in particular the poorest countries and the small island states. Another important issue that Sweden is working for is that the world's countries should agree on common five-year timeframes for their climate commitments. Jens Holm has also asked me whether Sweden will present a climate grant, a so-called NDC, which complements and goes beyond the EU's. EU Member States do not have their own nationally agreed commitments, so-called NDCs. We have a joint fulfilment within the EU and an NDC for the EU. Sweden, of course, has its own national targets to live up to the Paris Agreement through, among other things, our climate policy framework. However, Sweden is driving the EU to adopt more ambitious emission reduction targets for all Member States. Sweden believes that total emissions within the EU should decrease by at least 55% by 2030, instead of the current 40% target, and be in line with the one-and-a-half-grade target. It is the most ambitious position that any country is pursuing within the EU. The EU, as all Parties to the Paris Agreement, will present revised commitments in 2020, as well as long-term climate policies for emission reductions, in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Sweden is also developing its own long-term strategy for emission reductions, both within the EU in accordance with the EU regulation on the governance of the Energy Union and climate action, and in accordance with the Paris agreement. Jens Holm has asked me whether Sweden intends to promote the transfer of new technologies to developing countries in accordance with the Climate Convention and the Paris Agreement. Increased access to technology in developing countries is central to their ability to reduce emissions while at the same time developing them sustainably. Access to technology is an important issue, especially for vulnerable and least developed countries. The lack of funding and investment-promoting environments, often associated with a lack of institutional capacity and knowledge of the solutions available, constitute significant obstacles to technology transfer to developing countries. This needs to be addressed, and the government actively supports the building of such capacity. The government's major investment in climate finance, such as the Green Climate Fund, is important in this context and to facilitate the transfer of renewable energy technologies and energy efficiency to developing countries. Sweden supports a number of initiatives that contribute to technology development and technology transfer, but also more bilateral energy collaborations that contribute to this. The climate negotiations in Katowice last year adopted a technology framework to guide technology mechanisms but under the Paris Agreement. The Technology Framework shall in particular strengthen innovation, implementation, improved instruments and capacity development, cooperation with other actors and support.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-20	Madam President, I would like It was a bit of a pity that the Environment and Climate Minister did not quite get the full answer, but it is included in the Minutes of the debate. The text of the Minister for Climate Change raised an important issue of technology transfer to developing countries. We are in a climate crisis. There is no doubt about it. In poor countries in particular, thousands of people become a form of climate refugees on a daily basis. They are forced to leave their homes, often in rural areas, and move into big cities or flee to other countries. It is evident in countries such as India, Bangladesh and sub-Saharan Africa. That is why the climate summit that starts next week, COP 25, is so extremely important. It is about how in the rich world, which has actually caused the climate crisis, we can help poor countries not to repeat our mistakes and deal with the crisis they are living in today. I would like to start with the issue of technology transfer. The issue is enshrined in the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, and it is always included in the negotiations at these climate summits. Developing countries are frustrated that the latest technologies, especially the latest environmental technologies, are so concentrated in developed countries. We have an enormous technological head start. Let us look at the patents that exist in the environmental field. As far as renewable energy patents are concerned, more than 80% of those patents are held by companies in the industrial world, not by developing countries. The same applies to patents for ways to clean up car emissions – the vast majority of them are in companies in the US, Japan and the EU, not in developing countries. What are the consequences? Well, the consequence is that it will be difficult to transfer the latest technology to developing countries and that developing countries will have to pay a lot of money in royalties and licenses just to use the latest technology. There are data from the organisation The South Centre – funded by the G77 countries and thus the poor countries' negotiating organisation – indicating that in the 21st century, a country like India has almost tenfolded its payments in respect of royalties and licenses to companies in the i-world. I therefore believe, Madam President, that the Minister's answer to the question of barriers to technology transfer is not at all sufficient. It seems that a lot of the problems are in the developing world – that they have a lack of capacity and so on – but it's not surprising if we lock the technology in here in the i-world with the help of patents and the like. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: does the Minister think that we also need a reform of patent and intellectual property law to make it easier to transfer environmental technologies to developing countries? I would also like to ask a question on the subject of climate finance, on which the Minister was concerned and which is also extremely important. It is important that climate funding, i.e. the money to be transferred to developing countries, is not taken from regular aid. This must be new and additional money. Therefore, I would like to ask Isabella Lövin: Does Isabella Lövin think that the money that Sweden spends on the Green Fund and other climate finance is really new and additional funding? Is it not money actually taken from the aid budget?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-28	I should like to inform you that this is the spoken word. The written interpellation response is therefore not reflected in the Minutes, but rather in the spoken word.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-29	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that clarification. Next time, I'll get a better look at my answer so I can read all the parts. However, we will certainly have time to take those parts of this exchange instead. The issue of technology transfer is, of course, important, but in the case of the least developed countries, the main obstacle to them being able to absorb new technology is very much institutional capacity. It's about actually having the ability to implement good environmental and climate policies and get the new technology out in the real world. In Katowice, we adopted a technology framework with a technical implementation committee that supports the development of policies and climate technologies, and a climate technology centre and network that provides individual developing countries with both policy support and technical support. Sweden believes that technology issues are crucial for us to meet our goals and actively contribute, including by being on the Boards of Directors both for the Committee and for the Climate Network and the Centre. It is extremely important to take the lead and also to work with countries to give them the opportunity to access the new technology. Here Sweden has taken a very large initiative together with the UN and India and started a leadership group for industry transition. There, countries and companies will be able to join, and where we will be able to work together to make technological leaps that will enable fossil fuels to be removed from industrial processes. It is of course a development that will also benefit developing countries – once new technologies are made available, they will not have to repeat the major mistakes we in the industrialised world have made, and the technology will be cheaper. These investments are the responsibility of the rich countries. As far as additional funds are concerned, Sweden has a very large aid budget compared to the rest of the world; we are at 1% of GDP, while the UN's aid target is 0.7%. Already in 2015, when we went out with our exceptionally large contribution to the Green Climate Fund, we were above what we normally had to the aid budget. Now we have doubled our support to the Green Climate Fund, to 8 billion for the coming period. No less than SEK 6.2 billion of our Swedish aid is climate aid. I really want to say with determination that I absolutely do not think it is useful to distinguish between green and sustainable investments and climate aid on the one hand and other aid on the other. We must ensure that all the support we give to developing countries is sustainable, both environmentally and socially. That is why we have said that all our investments and all our aid should be both climate-proof and gender-proof. So it's consistent. Getting away from a fossil dependence is perhaps one of the most important things for countries to have an energy independence and be able to move forward and develop without being dependent on imports of coal and oil. This is something that is intertwined in our development cooperation.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-35	Madam President, I would like As far as technology transfer is concerned, I maintain that it is a huge problem that the latest technology in the environmental field is in the hands of a few companies in the rich world. They have an interest in maintaining their technological edge. We need to ensure that technology is disseminated, free of charge, to developing countries. A few decades ago we had a similar problem in the field of pharmaceuticals. A few pharmaceutical companies had a monopoly on the use of anti-hypertensive drugs. There the international community managed to disseminate this technology to developing countries so that they could develop generic drugs in the field of AIDS. This meant fighting AIDS and developing life - saving medicines. I believe that we have the same environmental problems. It is important that the latest technology is disseminated to developing countries, and then we cannot just talk about institutional problems in the south. We also have problems that need to be addressed here at home. I think it is good to see the Committee on Technological Performance and the Climate Technology Centre and the Network – which is well based in Copenhagen, if I am not mistaken. However, it would be interesting to know how effective the Committee and the network are in transferring the latest technology to developing countries. I have not seen very concrete results there, but the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action may be able to tell you about it. As far as climate finance is concerned, it goes without saying that all aid must be sustainable. It would be strange if we had aid funds to build coal-fired power stations or something – it should certainly not be – but we cannot finance our climate aid from the regular aid budget in such a way that we take money from what had become other, ordinary aid. Instead, we must provide new funding for climate aid. That is why the Left Party in its draft budget has put more than 2.2 billion in new and additional climate aid – precisely so that we do not get this competition for money. I would also like to ask about another point raised by the Minister in his reply to me, and this concerns the development of the so-called rule book. It is therefore a question of order in climate commitments and at the climate summits. A sensitive issue is that of credit, that is, the possibility for rich countries to buy emission credits in developing countries. There is a clear risk here that emission credits will not contribute to any emission reductions at all. We have also seen this in several reviews in Today's News, which is quite horrifying, I have to say. It shows that new stoves or Swedish plantations – that is, planting trees – have not led to additional emission reductions. I would like to ask the Minister what initiatives Sweden will take to ensure that there are real emission reductions. I would also like to ask whether it is the Swedish line to avoid emission credits as far as possible and to do real emission reductions at home. Buying out cheap and insecure credits cannot be an effective way of reducing global greenhouse gas emissions.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-42	Madam President, I would like Yes, Jens Holm, I can confirm that it is the position of the Swedish Government that the new mechanism under the Paris Agreement will lead to real emission reductions. I would also like to emphasise that the so-called CDM projects that we have read about in, among other things, Today's News are projects under the old Kyoto Protocol, which actually divided the world into poor and rich countries through two annexes. This is not in the Paris Agreement, but here all countries are equal. We now need to see how to formulate Rule 6. It is incredibly important for Sweden. At all costs, we want to avoid any kind of false or double accounting, so that one country, for example, can agree with another country on emission reductions and both countries then credit for the same emission reductions. We also want to be careful with the so-called banana, which we start to count on. One should not be able to set the runway too high, so that the emission reduction does not take place in reality but only on paper. We will also fight to transfer as few of the old Kyoto credits remaining in the system as possible to Article 6 of the Paris Agreement. Many countries feel that there are many credits that are squalid and do not just want to throw them away. But the problem is that there can be double counting and that there is a lot of air in the system. This is indeed the most important issue with regard to the rule book of the Paris Agreement. We need to make Article 6 correct. This is no longer about buying credit. R countries should not buy credit from poor countries and then do no reduction themselves. What is important is that emission reductions are actually carried out. If countries want to cooperate, that is in itself a positive thing. Sweden's entry is that if Sweden and any other country wants to cooperate on emission reductions, we should be able to do so and use a clear regulatory framework within Article 6 of the Paris Agreement's Rule Book. It should be transparent, and we should be able to account for it in such a way that we can really see that the Paris Agreement is being complied with and that emissions reductions are actually taking place in the way they have to be. We do not have time for additional air in the system and commitments that do not become reality. On the other issues, I would like to say once again that it is important that we give clarity to those who invest in renewable and environmentally smart technologies. We do this by having ambitious climate policies. Then, through assistance and cooperation, we will also ensure that this is made available to developing countries in various ways.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-48	Madam President, I would like It is very important that we get a robust system in place at COP 25, so that emission reductions really become emission reductions for real. It still puzzles me why we should talk about different mechanisms and place emission reductions in other countries, etcetera, even if it is a different regime than the previous one. If you say that you should reduce your emissions by 40 per cent to a given year, it should also be 40 per cent. It doesn't have to be harder than that. My contribution is: Make sure to make it as robust, strict and transparent as possible. Regarding the review in Dagens Nyheter, I would like to remind the Minister that it is about Swedish credits that are used for very uncertain and bad projects. The Minister has every opportunity to call for example the Energy Agency, which has been involved, and to question itself about what is going on and perhaps stop the unsafe projects that are now going on and instead invest the money in emissions reductions for real. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister a question. The Minister himself mentions that Sweden will develop a Swedish strategy for emission reductions. I assume that this is the action plan on emission reductions for this term of office. Then you want to know when the action plan comes. It's supposed to come before the end of the year, and there aren't really many days left now. There are many of us waiting for it. Otherwise, I would like to wish the Minister as much good luck as possible in the run-up to COP 25. It is a very important summit. We need countries that stand up for strong emission reductions and for more active cooperation with those affected here and now, the developing countries.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-52	Madam President, I would like When it comes to CDM under the Kyoto Protocol, it was the policy of the Alliance Government that we should be able to credit the credits that Sweden buys up to avoid reducing emissions so much at home. Since we took office in 2015, we have not used CDM in this way. We have stopped buying new ones and have only completed the projects we have previously gone into. That's what we ended up doing in 2016. The credits we have received have been cancelled. It is therefore 22 million tonnes of emission credits that we have not taken on board. V i has not intended to use them to avoid reducing emissions in Sweden, but we have cancelled them. We continue our work here at home to really do our homework here. That is how we want the Paris Agreement's Article 6 to work: it should be emission reductions for real. Moreover, we have also cancelled the allowances that we have had surpluses of in the EU emissions trading scheme. In total, we have therefore cancelled 58 million tonnes in this way. These are more than a year's Swedish emissions. We will come forward with the climate action plan before the end of the year, just as Jens Holm says. All countries are to submit a strategy to the UNFCCC, and that is what Sweden is now doing. There it is clear what Sweden's commitment is. But our great commitment is in common with the European Union. There we are pushing for a significant increase in ambition from the EU's side – from a 40% reduction in emissions by 2030 to a reduction of at least 55% by 2030. In practice, it is absolutely a minimum if we are to meet the climate challenge – the climate crisis. We hear scientists constantly saying that this is going faster than we thought and that it is more serious than we thought. We need to work faster.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-57	Madam President, I would like Louise Meijer has asked what measures the Government intends to take to reverse developments and reduce emissions in Sweden. One can begin by stating that Swedish emissions have decreased every year between 2011 and 2017, according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's final statistics. However, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency points out that according to preliminary statistics, emissions could have increased in 2018 and in the second quarter of 2019. Final statistics will be published in December. In any case, it is clear that emissions must be reduced much faster if we are to achieve our climate targets. I share Louise Meijer's view that Sweden needs to change quickly and welcome the fact that she mentions that Sweden needs to get rid of the dependence on fossil energy, because that is exactly what we are working for. The Government's ambition is for Sweden to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. The government is increasing the pace of climate work through increased efforts. In the transport sector, which accounts for about one third of emissions, we have introduced a number of powerful instruments such as the reduction obligation and bonus – the Malus system and made extensive investments in charging infrastructure. In the budget proposal for 2020, we also propose, among other things, new support for charging infrastructure along major roads. In the national infrastructure plan, the government is making the biggest railway investment in modern times. The Government's policy is to ensure that Sweden is equipped for a fossil-free transport sector. Climate change should take place in such a way that everyone can be part of the solution. Transport emissions will be reduced by electrification and a shift to fossil-free fuels, energy-efficient vehicles and ships, and a transport-efficient society, where traffic work can be reduced without compromising accessibility. Industry also accounts for around one third of Sweden's emissions. I am pleased that industry is now at the forefront and is increasing the pace towards fossil freedom. The fact that the initiative also comes from the industries themselves is something that gives us good opportunities to change. In order to support the industry in the transition, the government has proposed in the budget bill that Industrikliv be strengthened to SEK 600 million a year. The focus on technology development for greenhouse gas emissions reduction that started this year will continue. The industry can contribute to large emission reductions; at least one tenth of Sweden's emissions can be cut off only by the steel industry implementing a technology shift in which coal is replaced by hydrogen. Most of the industry is part of the ETS, which is the EU's main climate policy instrument. The emissions trading system has been strengthened by the proposal that I initiated during the EU negotiations and which came to be called the Swedish proposal. This initiative is expected to remove 2.5 billion tonnes of CO2 emissions in the coming years. The remaining third of emissions come from other sectors, such as agriculture, housing and premises. In these areas too, we have taken several initiatives and increased support for the production of renewable energy, such as biogas and solar electricity. Actions shall be carried out to support the development towards fossil-independent agriculture. Louise Meijer mentions that the Moderates want to electrify Sweden and thus see electrification as the main solution for achieving our goals. In order to achieve net zero emissions, electrification is an important measure. However, a holistic approach to climate policy is needed in order to succeed. Sweden's climate policy is now considered by international environmental organisations to be the most ambitious in the world. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency estimates that the measures presented by the government during the last term of office lead to significant emission reductions, but they also point to the fact that the impact of instruments on actual emissions is often delayed. It is important to remember that several of the government's reforms came into force only last year. Madam President, I would like However, both the Climate Policy Council and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency note that what we have done so far is not enough. More needs to be done to achieve our goals and limit earth's temperature increase. The January Agreement sets out a number of important proposals. In the budget proposal for 2020, the government has proposed several measures and instruments that have great potential to reduce emissions. In the forthcoming climate policy action plan, the Government intends to present the direction of the Government's climate policy during its term of office with the aim of reaching Sweden's climate target of zero net emissions by 2045. The government welcomes the Moderates' commitment to the climate issue and hopes that we can now count on Moderates' support for the climate action plan, which we will present before the end of the year.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-69	Madam President, I would like I have asked Minister for Environment and Climate Change Isabella Lövin what measures the Green Party and the Government intend to take to reduce emissions. To give a background, I would first briefly review what the statistics for Swedish emissions actually look like. I'm starting a little bit further back in time. Between 1990 and 2017, emissions decreased by 26 per cent. However, the long-term emission reduction, the major emission reduction, took place mainly between 2003 and 2014. From 2015 onwards, i.e. the time when the Social Democrats and the Green Party have been in government, the emissions from the robbery industry have increased by about 4 per cent. Between 2016 and 2017, emissions decreased by only 0.2 per cent. It's not a big reduction. You can compare it to when the Moderates were in government. At that time emissions decreased by about 20 per cent. Last year, emissions increased by 2%. According to preliminary figures for quarter two this year, emissions appear to have increased by 3.4 per cent compared with the previous year. There will be a lot of figures, but in conclusion we can say that the emission reductions during the period that the Green Party has been in government have not been very great. On the contrary, emissions reductions have levelled out, and now we are seeing increases in emissions. At the same time, we know that meeting our climate targets requires an average reduction of between 5% and 8% each year. Now, instead, we see that we are increasing our emissions. I believe that after five years of government, the Green Party's climate policy is limited and even increases in emissions. Since the Green Party was largely founded in order to generate a good climate and so on and it is largely related to the party's raison d'être, I assume that Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin, is not satisfied with this result. It is not only in Sweden that emissions are increasing. They are also increasing in the world. On average, there has been an increase of 1.5% over the last ten years. It should be added that Sweden accounts for about 1 per mil of the world's emissions. When the IPCC calculates how we can achieve our climate targets, they say in all their scenarios that we need to scale up nuclear power. With nuclear power, we can easily replace the energy production which today dominates the world around us and which generates incredible increases in emissions. Nuclear power can replace that energy production, and we can then achieve our climate goals in a simple way and in a relatively short time. Research shows that nuclear energy is precisely the type of energy that is scalable and that can also be exported. So in Sweden we do the opposite. We're shutting down nuclear power. We closed down Barsebäck. Now Ringhals 1 and 2 are to be closed. The Climate Minister mentions a few things that are being done. I guess that's a good thing. The Moderates don't agree with everything. But that is clearly not enough. Therefore, I have to ask: what new measures does the Minister for Environment and Climate Action think need to be taken in order to reach the target of 2045?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-79	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Louise Meijer for the interpellation. It's extremely important. As Mrs Meijer says, we need to reduce our emissions by about 8 percentage points a year. On the other hand, I do not agree with the description of history, because we know that the flagship of the bourgeois government in climate policy was precisely the purchase of cheap, uncertain emission credits, which we talked about earlier. I have two specific questions for the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action. One concerns renewable fuels. We know that Swedish public transport consists to a very large extent of vehicles powered by biogas, biodiesel or ethanol. These are fuels that today have a tax exemption. Now the EU wants to remove this tax exemption. If that were to happen, these fuels would be several crowns more expensive at the pump and would die soot death. If we are forced to tax them like other fossil fuels, there will no longer be any biogas, ethanol or biodiesel left in Sweden. It is strange that we should not be able to promote renewable fuels that reduce our emissions in this way. My first question to the Minister is therefore: how is the government pushing us to continue to maintain the tax exemption for our renewable fuels? The Minister mentioned many things, of which the importance of sustainable transport was one. One third of our emissions come from the transport industry. Then it is so sad to see caravans of trucks that drive from southern to northern Sweden or from north to south on any motorway in Sweden. We know that in parallel with these motorways, there is usually rail. You could transport so much more goods by rail than by road compared to what is being done today. Then we have a very big problem, and that is that for every kilometre that you transport goods by rail you pay a rail fee. Do the trucks? No, they don't. I happen to know that there is a ready-made proposal in the government's office drawer for a kilometre tax to pay a small part of the transport of heavy goods vehicles for the emissions and road wear arising from the transport of goods on our roads. This proposal on mileage tax or road wear charge has never been put forward by the government, which is puzzling. Why should trains have to pay a mile's tax and not the trucks? It should reasonably be the opposite. My second question to the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action is therefore quite simply when the government intends to present the proposal for a kilometre tax on lorry transport.
i-DcJPKovYHBZL93YkCZDVLo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Louise Meijer, for the interpellation and thank you, Jens Holm, for the questions! I am very frustrated that emissions do not decrease at the rate that we would need to see according to a linear curve and based on what the researchers say. There are two reasons why they do not do so despite five years of the Green Party in government. One is that democracy takes time. Many of the major reforms that we have pushed through, such as the Climate Act, which really gives industry the framework for all Swedish climate work, as well as the aviation tax, came into force only last year. We also have the bonus- malus and the fuel exchange. When the Environmental Protection Agency counts on what will really reduce emissions, it is about these reforms, and it will be done with delay. The second explanation, of course, is that we have had an exceptional boom in these years. As Louise Meijer says, this means increased emissions in industry and heavy transport. One of the measures we take is the industrial environment, which provides a long-term perspective for industry to change. I am sorry to say that the Moderates want to convert this whole structure, which is welcomed by the heavy industry, into a deduction. However, the industry clearly states that it would be completely ineffective and would slow down technological development and the necessary leaps in industry. When it comes to heavy transport, which Jens Holm is into, we have a historically great investment on the railways, but we also have the problem that many still choose to use trucks and road transport instead of rail. We agree in the January agreement that we will produce an environmental charge for heavy goods vehicles. It's gonna come. But we are also doing a lot more for smart logistics solutions and introducing an eco-bonus for shipping in order to get as much away from the roads as possible. We also agree on a bonus for electric trucks and that we will build partially electrified roads where heavy transport can go. We need a lot of efficiency to get as much away from the roads as possible. I also believe that we can do a great deal with public procurement. Louise Meijer mentions how emissions decreased over a long period of time from the 1990s. The main reason for this, Louise Meijer, was the carbon tax introduced in the early 90s – the highest in the world. I note that the Moderates in their shadow budget want to reduce the CO2 tax by 1 krona. This will not lead to emission reductions. The part of that emission reduction that took place between 2003 and 2014 is also about the fact that we had a recession that was pointing out in 2009, and it is clear that it led to a reduction in emissions. The district heating sector is also a major factor in reducing emissions, as is energy efficiency in industry. This is pretty easy to find out. If we are to reduce the large emissions that we now have from car traffic, from truck traffic and from the blast furnaces that manufacture steel, new measures are needed. However, I do not see any new measures from the Moderates, more than that you are talking about nuclear power. Then I would really urge Louise Meijer: Look at our neighbour Finland! Look at Britain! Hitachi and Toshiba are now taking billions of losses of 25 billion instead of continuing to expand nuclear power because it is not competitive in relation to renewable wind power.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-98	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isabella Lövin, for the answer! It sounds almost as if the Minister for the Environment and Climate is satisfied when she says that the Green Party during its time in government has certainly influenced in a better direction. At the same time, we can see that emissions have actually increased. They increased last year by 2 per cent, and they appear to increase both for Q1 and Q2 in 2019 compared to the previous year. I don't think it's a climate issue to be satisfied with. The Minister mentioned new measures and that she does not see them in the Moderates. She also brought up the Industriklivet. Yes, the industry in Sweden needs long-term conditions. The proposal put forward by the Moderates concerns both the continuation of the Government's proposal on Industrial Life and the addition of a climate reduction that reduces corporate tax, which correlates with the emission reductions that the company has implemented through investments in technology. I believe that it can create enormous synergies, which will give us an even faster transition in industry. It is such a suggestion as to how the transformation of industry could go faster as the Moderates have but not the government. The Minister also mentioned that democracy takes time and that it is important to bring everyone along. That is exactly what I would like to draw attention to when it comes to the CO2 tax and petrol prices: if we are to bring the whole of society into this important transition, we also need a broad anchoring throughout the country. Then it will be wrong when we say that the price of petrol should be disproportionately high for those who have no alternative to taking the car to school, work, training or whatever. We must ensure that there is a broad anchoring of the transition we are facing. It's an incredible change that we've hardly ever seen before in history. We are going from a fossil society to an electrified society. This is where it goes wrong when Isabella Lövin says that the only thing the Moderates are going on about is nuclear power. Yes, we nag and nag because of the need for nuclear power. We see that it is needed in the outside world, and we see that it is needed in Sweden. By 2045 there is talk of an increased energy demand amounting to 1.5 Denmark. Where do you get that power? If we are going to cover even the cold days, if our coffee machines are not going to stand still in the morning, if we are not going to have to shower cold or whatever it is and we are not going to have to import Polish or even Russian fossil electricity, then we need our nuclear power plants. We know that the closure of the Ringhals 1 and 2 nuclear power plants will probably lead to 8 million tonnes of emissions increases in the EU – 8 million tonnes! Isabella Lövin talks about Preem's increase of about 1 million tons being terrible, and they pick this up with the government instead of having it in the courts. You get incredibly upset over 1 million tons in the increase in emissions. At the same time, we see that the closure of Ringhals 1 and 2 can lead to 8 million tonnes of emissions increase. It becomes disproportionate in the reactions and what you imagine is the most important thing. I believe and suspect that it may be the case that government policy and climate policy are hidden by ideological blind spots. I find this sad, because in practice it leads to global increases in emissions. I would like to ask the Minister for Environment and Climate Change Isabella Lövin: Is it justifiable to think that it is good climate policy to close Ringhals 1 and 2, which leads to emissions increases?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-108	Madam President, I would like I would just like to say a few words to Louise Meijer. She asks if we should import electricity from coal-producing Poland. But today it is we who export electricity to Poland, Finland and Germany. We have the biggest electricity surplus ever, 20 terawatt hours, so I don't think that's the big problem. We, too, in the Left Party, want as far as possible to see electrification of, for example, the vehicle fleet, but we can do that with renewable energy, which is far cheaper and safer than nuclear energy. Otherwise, I agree with Louise Meijer that there is a satisfaction with the Environment and Climate Minister who is a bit problematic. One cannot be satisfied when Swedish emissions increase. You have to say that we have to do an incredible amount more. The issue must be at the top of the agenda at every political meeting attended by the government, I think. I have a specific question about renewable fuels here in Sweden. We cannot lose that battle in Brussels, because then biogas, ethanol and biodiesel will disappear. That would be devastating, because then our emissions will increase. In addition, we will roll over large costs on our public transport heads around our municipalities and regions. What is the government doing to safeguard the tax reductions that we currently have in Sweden for renewable fuels?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-112	Madam President, I would like I can assure everyone here that I absolutely do not feel calm or any satisfaction whatsoever. I would like the Green Party to have much stronger support so that we can move forward more quickly with the reforms that we see as absolutely necessary. On the other hand, I hear Louise Meijer constantly repeating that Sweden accounts for only 1 per mil of all global emissions. Behind the sentence that is repeated several times I hear that the Moderates really think it doesn't matter what Sweden does. It's just a drop in the ocean. I would like to say to you, Louise Meijer, that there are so many countries in the world that also account for only 1 per mil. It's like we'd stand by a fire and think that our little bucket we shouldn't throw, because there are others who have a much bigger bucket. But if we look around, we see that there are about a thousand countries with each of their small buckets that they don't care about throwing on the fire. We will take our leadership and responsibility. As far as nuclear energy is concerned, I think that Louise Meijer is making pure terror propaganda and quite simply false statements. This is not the case: Ringhals 1 and 2 are not shut down because of some sort of random policy that we have decided on, but because of safety requirements that the Radiation Protection Authority announced after Fukushima – that we must have independent core cooling on our reactors by 2020. Vattenfall has calculated what it would cost to introduce independent core cooling so that we do not suffer a meltdown, for example if a terrorist attack is directed at one of our nuclear power plants. Then we shall have independent hard cooling so that we do not get a meltdown and destroy land and water for generations to come. Vattenfall has concluded that we cannot afford this, and on this basis Ringhals 1 and 2 are being laid down. That's one fact. The second fact is that the expansion of wind power in Sweden, as a result of the Energy Agreement, amounts to 18 terawatt hours. In just a few years it has been expanded in Sweden – also in northern Sweden, in Piteå. It has created thousands of jobs and means that we will export more electricity – no less electricity than today, when we already have historically large surpluses, but more electricity. We export, among other things, to Finland, where they never finish their nuclear power plant that they have built on for over 15 years now and that is three times more expensive than it was originally planned. Louise Meijer says it is simple and accessible and scalable. That's not true. Toshiba and Hitachi have withdrawn from major nuclear plans in the UK despite the fact that the UK Government has guaranteed a minimum price for the new nuclear power to consumers. But what was the rate per kilowatt hour of electricity bill for the British? Well, twice as expensive as new wind power. If we're going to talk about ideological blind spots, it's a market economy meltdown that the Moderates are propagating. So we are going to subsidise new nuclear power when the market builds new wind power cheaply and safely and without safety problems with how we are going to deal with the waste for 100 000 years. That is still the case in the case of nuclear power, new or old. This is about taking responsibility for a sustainable future. We do, and I congratulate you on the fact that we still have the Energy Agreement, which means that large investors continue to invest in new wind and renewable energy in Sweden. They do so thanks to political stability, which I hope the Moderates will not give up.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-121	I would remind you that everyone is speaking through the President of this House.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-122	Madam President, I would like Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin, used the word horror propaganda. Then I cannot refrain from mentioning that one of the government's representatives in the Riksdag, a Member of Parliament, recently wanted a company to go bankrupt. Perhaps we can talk about a market economy meltdown. This concept may be suitable for such expressions when they come from parties in the government. I do not think we can talk about market economy meltdowns when there is no free market in energy in Sweden. The Minister also mentioned that we in Sweden have a bucket and that many other countries also have it. Absolutely, we're gonna throw the water from that bucket all we can from our side. But there are for seven other countries that have almost a waterfall to pour on the fire. Then surely an important part, a rational part, also of Swedish climate policy, must be to ensure that the large countries with waterfalls that can easily extinguish the fire do what they can and not concentrate on the countries that stand with each their bucket. The environmental party's electrical equation doesn't make sense. We are talking about 1.5 Denmark in increased electricity demand to 2045. Some talk of a 60% increase in electricity demand to 2045. Where are we gonna get our energy? The energy must remain fossil-free. It will not be possible to solve this by peeling up wind power or solar power. Last time I saw the sun was weeks ago. We are very short of hours of sunshine in Sweden, and it does not blow every day. We must protect fossil-free energy production. What does Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin, want to do about it?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-125	Madam President, I would like I have to start by replying to Jens Holm that I am bringing it up with the Commission. I have written letters and keep raising this issue with the tax reduction on renewable fuels. With the new Green Deal from Ursula von der Leyen, I expect the European Commission to ensure that we can speed up climate change and not slow it down with rigidity and bureaucracy. Louise Meijer is constantly trying to give the impression that we will have to shower cold, not be able to make coffee and I do not know what. Anyone who instead reads the Swedish Energy Agency's report on the road to a 100% renewable electricity system by 2040 sees that it is quite possible. We are talking about a scenario of between 60 and 120 terawatt hours needed in renewable energy due to outdated technology that is eventually being taken out. I just say: 18 terawatt hours have been added to our energy system in just a few years thanks to the energy agreement. The Swedish Energy Agency sees a possibility of up to 10 per cent solar electricity in Sweden. With a clear policy, we are making a huge service to all the companies that are currently investing in research and development of energy storage. Today we have 25 terawats in electricity exports. We will need more electricity, but I would also like to remind you that since 1980, electricity consumption in Sweden has largely remained stable. With new technology, energy efficiency and so on, we look to the future, and then we will also be able to do this. As far as countries with waterfalls are concerned, I believe that the small countries that are smart and forward and show leadership can make the big waterfall countries follow suit.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-130	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked the Minister for International Development Cooperation if the Government believes that AIIB's lending is of sufficient quality to motivate Swedish membership of the Bank, if the Government sees any risk that Sweden through its membership contributes to promoting China's broader foreign policy ambitions and if the Government sees any problems in investing in a development bank that allows financing of new coal power plants. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. As a member of AIIB, Sweden is working to ensure that the Bank's lending is of high quality. Through its membership, Sweden can influence the strategies and policies and social and environmental standards adopted by the Bank and the projects it finances. The Bank's standards correspond to those of other international financial institutions. A large proportion of AIIB's projects are carried out together with other institutions, such as the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, which confirms the quality of the projects. The Bank does not exclude projects linked to national or regional initiatives. The need for investment in infrastructure in Asia is great, and it is natural that there are several actors and initiatives that can help to support this. AIIB's aim is to promote sustainable economic development, create prosperity and improve connections for infrastructure in Asia. The fact that Sweden as a member of the Bank supports this aim does not mean that it supports Chinese foreign policy ambitions. Multilateral development banks such as AIIB have a very important role to play in the global transition from fossil to renewable and sustainable energy sources. The government is working to ensure that the bank is ambitious in the field of climate change and to finance projects in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency. AIIB has never financed any coal power plant. The fact that such a formal possibility exists in the Bank's energy strategy is due to the fact that there was not enough support among the Bank's Member States to exclude that possibility. The Bank's profile is green, and there is no indication of a willingness to invest in coal power. On the contrary, according to its energy strategy, AIIB will support the transition of borrowers to the use of low-carbon energy sources and help them achieve their long-term climate targets under the Paris Agreement. The Bank has so far approved the financing of several renewable energy projects, such as hydropower and solar energy, and is also working on innovative solutions for climate finance.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-135	Madam President, I would like China will, for the foreseeable future, be the most difficult foreign policy challenge in the West, which is, of course, why the government has come up with a recent China strategy. However, the Chinese strategy misses one of the elephants in the room. China's main instrument of international influence is what is called the Belt and Road Initiative, which may well be the world's largest infrastructure plan with an alleged aggregate price tag of 1 trillion dollars. The plan will link China, Central Asia, the Middle East and Europe through massive infrastructure projects and raw materials extraction. The aim is to promote growth and trade; that is at least the stated aim. Two years after BRI was launched in 2013, its main tool, the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, was launched. As a preliminary point, China claimed that AIIB had the same purpose as other development banks. But this façade has been piece by piece destroyed. President Xi himself describes AIIB and BRI as two engines on an airplane. AIIB's main selling point is flexibility. efficiency and compliance with the needs of borrowers, which in practice means less responsibility for social and environmental impacts, sustainability and corruption. Furthermore, the President of the Bank, currently called Jin Liqun, is appointed by the Chinese State, and there is no doubt that he is looking first and foremost at China's overall foreign policy priorities. The risk that local people are literally driven over by infrastructure projects is a recurring problem within development banks, which places high demands on internal governance and transparency. AIIB's rules on social or environmental impact have been described as a vague and toothless approach by researchers. Moreover, the Bank does not have an independent body to review compliance with the rules at all. AIIB does not have a fixed list of documents to be published before deciding on projects. Instead, the transparency policy consists of principles that are balanced and a large number of exceptions to transparency. In addition, the President himself is given great opportunities to prevent the disclosure of documents. Furthermore, AIIB allows documents to be kept secret for reasons of the law of the country in which they operate. These countries are often weak democracies with little tradition of public access. If affected persons were nevertheless to receive information and want to oppose projects, AIIB sets up unnecessary and complicated obstacles to making a notification to its dispute resolution mechanism. All this deviates greatly from what is commonly called best practices in other development banks and makes it clear that AIIB is an institution characterized by Chinese administrative culture with its lack of respect for human rights, the environment and transparency. I would therefore like to ask the Government whether she sees any risk of AIIB undermining our development goals by setting lower standards for procurement and social and environmental responsibility. And does she see any problem with Sweden giving out its good name to the Belt and Road initiative in practice?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-144	Madam President, I would like I'll answer some questions. Ludvig Aspling claims that the President of the Bank is appointed by the Chinese State. According to the Bank's Statute, the Chairman is appointed by the Governor's Board of Directors, and this is to be done through an open, transparent and merit-based process. The current President comes from China. He has previously been Vice-Chairman of the Asian Development Bank, but also Deputy Director of the World Bank Board. Is AIIB used for the Chinese project Belt and Road Initiative? To my knowledge, the Bank has not financed any project under this initiative, although it is not excluded. But, according to my information, this has not happened. As far as transparency policy is concerned, the assessment is that the Bank has a similar structure to that of similar organisations. There is therefore no difference between this bank and other international financial institutions. As regards the evaluation of the Bank, several independent evaluations confirm that the Bank's standard corresponds to that of other organisations. Institutional Shareholder Services has made such an assessment based on the environment, social responsibility and corporate governance and classified the standard as higher than the average for this type of bank. Sustainalytics has reviewed the bank and argues that AIIB holds approximately average standards compared to similar organisations. The civil society organisation E3G notes that AIIB shows leadership among financial institutions. The German Ministry of Finance has confirmed in a report that AIIB has social and environmental frameworks that are in line with the World Bank's and other international financial institutions'. Of course, this does not prevent it from being important to keep track of compliance with the rules and that AIIB continues to adhere to international standards. Then it is also good that Sweden is a member of the bank, because it gives us another opportunity for transparency and control and to say our opinion together with all the other European countries that are also in the bank.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-149	Madam President, I would like Let me point out that there are plenty of sources to suggest that the picture I am highlighting and the problems that exist within this bank are real. For example, researcher Korinna Horta, who is a doctor, Fellow at Yale University and a board member of German Greenpeace, has made an analysis of these documents and the Bank's working methods and reached a conclusion that broadly confirms the criticism that I am highlighting here. There's a mixed picture. I have not gone through the sources referred to by the Government. They could have been included in the interpellation response, because then I would have had a chance to respond to the Government's claims. I am sorry that this was not the case, but perhaps we will have the opportunity to debate this issue at another time. I will briefly comment on what is said in the interpellation response that the bank is profiled as green. In practice, the fact that you profile yourself as green means that you don't see it as more than a façade. Something else that the Chinese profiled as green was, if the Government remembers, the Olympics in 2008– just to give an example. I had the pleasure of living in a sleeping town to Beijing in 2008 and 2009 and saw with my own eyes what the green profile meant in practice. A few months before the Olympic Games, factories were shut down, people were prevented from driving in Beijing, trying to sweep away industrial litter and flush away black, smelly stormwater from ditches. Then the Olympics were held, and then it looked pretty decent. But right after the Olympics it was back to business as usual. The fact that you have a green profile means in many ways a facade. It's not something you see as a real goal. I think you've been a little fooled. The EU Group's strategy is to try to steer this bank in a more responsible direction, but it has not worked. The EU itself is not a blocking minority and has found it difficult to build coalitions to get its way. Many of the Bank's members are themselves in various forms of debt to China, and there is reason to suspect that China has different ways of controlling the votes of many other members as well. What we should also remember is that what the Chinese need from EU countries on this issue is primarily not capital. They have quite a lot of that on their own. What they need is our good name. For good reason, Europe has a good reputation, and when we can get us to co-finance this bank, in practice, it means lending our good name to Chinese foreign policy, which is bad. What does the Government think when the President of China says that the Belt and Road initiative and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank are two engines on an aircraft? What it means is that there are two different tools to promote the same objectives. What conclusion does the Government draw from this statement? I would like an answer to that.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-157	Madam President, I would like If you say you have a green profile but don't have it is just a curtain you hold up. The evaluations that I have received from the Ministry of Finance officials are looking at whether the bank has a green profile. Institutional Shareholder Services says that in terms of sustainability standards, the bank is above average. Sustainalytics says that it is an average player among other institutions in terms of the environment. Third Generation Environmentalism says that it shows leadership among financial institutions in Asia through its ambition not to finance coal projects, through its climate bonds and by raising awareness of environmental issues. Germany's Ministry of Finance confirms that the Bank has an environmental framework that is in line with the World Bank. So, according to the evaluations that I have received, the green seems not only to be something you say, but something that is actually included in the Bank's work. But again: it is important to follow up that this is indeed the case, and it is therefore important that Sweden and other European countries are in this bank and can review compliance with the standards that have been set. I will not interpret the Chinese President's statement when I do not know the whole context. However, it is clear that there is a need for infrastructure investment in Asia.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-161	Madam President, I would like I am fully aware of the need for investment in infrastructure. But that's also what makes the choice to go into AIIB a little strange. There are other banks that do the same thing. The World Bank is one of those, and as the Government mentions them in the interpellation response there is the Asian Development Bank, which basically does the same but which has a long history and is very credible. It is somewhat puzzling that these instruments are not used instead. Something else I would like to highlight briefly is the statement. China has argued from the outset that this new bank is not part of the Chinese foreign policy agenda. But the facade has fallen, and everyone knows that this is something the Chinese use to promote the Belt and Road initiative. There are plenty of sources indicating that the projects financed by the Bank often coincide with what China identifies as its Belt and Road initiative. The fact that this is the case is more or less clear. It is sad that the sources referred to by the Government are not included in the interpellation response. I would have liked to have looked into it so that I had a chance to respond. But I guess we'll just have to talk about it another time.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-164	Madam President, I would like Nor do you always have to respond to the sources; you can also just listen. You can have different starting points. Sweden is a member of the World Bank and other international financial institutions, and when this initiative came, ours and Parliament's assessment was that it was a good idea to join because then we could also gain influence over how the bank was put together. Our assessment was that it was better to be a part of it than to sit side by side whining. But here I think Social Democrats and Swedish Democrats have a slightly different starting point.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-166	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked whether I will take steps to increase the driving forces for work and improve integration through lower taxes on labour. The government is of course working broadly to ensure that more people get into work and for improved integration. Examples of measures that have this purpose are start-up jobs, growth support, additional services and introductory jobs as well as government grants to municipalities with high refugee reception. In the budget proposal for 2020, the Government proposes additional investments in the form of start-up jobs and entry deductions for people who have not established themselves on the labour market or who have long been outside it. It also proposes an increased social orientation and an intensive year for new arrivals. The Government is also continuing its efforts to develop a comprehensive knowledge transfer that includes municipal vocational training, university of applied sciences, adult education and education in universities and colleges.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-170	Madam President, I would like We once had a Social Democratic government that built up a very large alienation; 1 – 1 1⁄2 million people who could work did not work or not work as much as they would like to do. To hide this in the statistics, the then Social Democratic government decided to devise a wide range of activities that could be carried out instead of working. In the statistics it was counted as working, but the hours worked, in the real sense, did not become more in the economy. This built up the very large exclusion that was partly counteracted during the years 2006–2014 but which remains largely in Sweden to this day. This kind of exclusion is tiring for a country, partly because it takes money from school, health care and the police who instead need to go to pay benefits, partly because of the great personal suffering it creates for those who suffer from exclusion, who have no job to go to, who do not have the feeling of pride, self-sufficiency or vacation or who do not have parents going to work and so on. This tends to affect the next generation — the children who have parents living in alienation. So I'm a little worried. I asked the Minister of Finance what measures the Minister of Finance is taking or is willing to take to increase the driving forces to work, and there came back a long list of complicated subsidy and support schemes which in a unclear way affect the driving forces to work but which are clearly very difficult for both companies and the public sector to use for people to get jobs. Of course, I have every respect that they sound good and that you can talk about them, brag about them and so on, but their proven effect has to be judged as low. The proven effect of the measures just described by Magdalena Andersson is probably so low that the Finance Minister himself does not therefore account for the expected impact of the measures. These are different types of grant names or measures that do not actually, at least not according to the best available assessment, increase employment in the economy on a lasting and long-term basis. The background to my question to the Minister for Finance is in part the report that the European Commission has produced, which recommends Sweden to extend the job tax credit or at least something similar to the job tax credit for people who have a hard time establishing themselves on the labour market. The question to the Minister for Finance remains. What was unfortunately not part of the answer – it had well fallen away – was how the Minister of Finance sees the recommendation from the EU to extend the job tax credit for those people who have the most difficulty getting a foothold on the labour market, so that the driving forces to work and participate in general can increase. Is this something that the Minister for Finance could possibly consider? Job tax deductions are used in some twenty countries with very good effects. It has been evaluated in shelves of academic literature. When we have also received an international call for something to increase the incentives to work for those groups that may not be able to get the highest income, perhaps the Swedish people are curious about an answer from the Minister of Finance if she can think of something like that.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-177	Madam President, I would like It is somewhat unclear what recommendations from the Commission, as Niklas Wykman says. Is that the report I'm holding? Niklas Wykman, in his question of interpellation, has not been clear about exactly what he means. The closest thing we have found is this report, but I do not know if that is what is meant by it. It is not a report from the Commission but a report which the authors themselves support. What is proposed there is a reduction in employers' contributions, and such a reduction in employers' contributions for people who are far from the labour market is precisely what the government proposes in the budget. It is also proposed that the reduction be financed by a abolished interest deduction for those who own and have borrowed for their homes, but this has not been proposed by the government.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-178	Madam President, I would like It can be said that the Minister for Finance chooses to be very brief in his response. The Minister for Finance may want to take the issue a little more seriously, because the Minister for Finance himself can hardly be satisfied with the development as it is in Sweden. We have major integration problems. I think most people are prepared to sign it. We have a long-term unemployment which has stuck to high levels. We have an unemployment rate that, despite the boom, has stuck to high levels. We have a high level of equilibrium unemployment in Sweden. When the Minister of Finance took over responsibility for economic policy, the aim was for us to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Today, we are among the very worst in the whole of the European Union when it comes to combating unemployment. Failure is perhaps a weak word to describe what Magdalena Andersson has accomplished with the jobs. Of course, the number of jobs has increased with a strong population growth and a strong economic cycle, but we still have high unemployment despite a long period of economic boom. This is worrying for a country that wants a strong, general and jointly funded welfare. This risks leading up to exactly the situation that we find ourselves in, where we cannot afford the welfare services that we have promised to the Swedish people, where we get long queues in health care, for example, but also where many people are excluded because they do not have a job to go to. The price of exclusion is high for those who are personally affected and also applies to the tax revenues to society that are missing and the crime, anxiety and insecurity that alienation fertilizes, both for the people who live in it and for those who suffer from the crimes that occur when people do not have their own livelihood or security in society. That is why the question to Magdalena Andersson remains. Can the Minister of Finance envisage increasing the incentives for low-income people to work? I know, Madam President, that it is extremely far away for Social Democrats to make it more profitable to work. Magdalena Andersson has with frenzy opposed every step of the job tax deduction, and she has, for example, described the RUT deduction and used it in the discussion about pig debate and other things that do not at all describe the value of the reform. The job tax deduction and the RUT deduction have together created 150 000 jobs in the economy that we would not otherwise have had. Therefore, one might ask the Minister of Finance whether she is in any way prepared to use tax policy to scientifically verify or verify on the basis of practical experience how to increase employment in the economy and give more opportunities to go to work. The list that the Minister of Finance read out at the beginning of extra services and so on can certainly make a big difference for the individual who receives such a job or employment, but on the total, long-term and lasting basis it is unlikely to provide more jobs in the economy. This is the big question: how can jobs become more in the economy on a lasting basis, and how can we achieve higher growth on a lasting basis, for example? Now the European Commission is predicting that we will have the lowest per capita growth in the EU as a whole next year. If you have the lowest growth per person, Madam President, and if the economy per person does not grow at all, then you can only reallocate resources that already exist and take from someone to give to someone else. Instead, if you have growth, everyone can get more without anyone having to get worse. My question to the Minister for Finance therefore remains: is it possible that she wants to review the failed policy and instead pursue a policy that reduces unemployment?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-185	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman asked a clear question in the previous speech: if I am prepared to do what the report says, if it is the report I am holding that Niklas Wykman is referring to. I answered the question. Then it is a little strange that you are then attacked for answering the question and not talking about a lot of other things. It is a different style of debate. Otherwise Niklas Wykman usually complains that he does not think I answer the question clearly enough. This obviously applies to damn ed if you do, damn ed if you don 中 t, but it is possible that it is a task for MPs in opposition to act in this way. If Niklas Wykman now claims that it is the Commission that has given us some recommendations that we at the Ministry of Finance cannot find, perhaps he can ask whether it is the author of the report that he refers to rather than the Commission. This would clarify the debate. Now we are seeing an increase in unemployment, not least among women born abroad. There we see that the increase in the number enrolled in the Employment Service almost directly corresponds to the reduction in the number of subsidised jobs, which was the result of the budget reservation or napkin sketch that Niklas Wykman and his friends pushed through here in Parliament. Especially the extra services were used by many foreign-born women and municipalities and were an important first step into the labour market for foreign-born women. Evaluations have also shown that many of those who had extra jobs then went either to studies, for example to become a nurse or assistant, or to continue working. So it was a successful reform. I note that the dismantling of labour market policies by Moderates is currently having a major impact on unemployment. It also has a direct impact on the finances of municipalities, as support for the supply is increasing due to the dismantling of the Employment Service.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-189	Madam President, I would like Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson is therefore responsible for the economic policy of a country that next year is expected to have the lowest economic growth in the whole of the European Union, a country that has gone from being better than the means in the European Union to now, according to the latest figures, being the fifth worst. Magdalena Andersson has fulfilled this responsibility since 2015, and she has no other message than to blame the Moderates. Whole districts are burdened with exclusion and violence on the open street, and there is a crisis in local economies. Magdalena Andersson has been Minister of Finance for five years and it is all Moderates' fault. That is probably why the Social Democrats are moving down to the 20% mark in public opinion, because it is not possible to believe this. It simply cannot be. Sweden has serious problems, and one of them is that we have a finance minister who only blames itself instead of curiously taking an interest in implementing reforms that can make the economy grow, get people into employment and make the whole society feel more of the faith in the future. Madam President, I would like It is clear that there are too high thresholds to enter the Swedish labour market. Not least, it can be proved that a person who in other countries can obviously become a foreign minister in Sweden is not even once designated as having a capacity for work but should be on sick leave. I suppose that says something about where this government has taken the policy. It takes a lot of tightening up here. We Moderates always think it should pay off to work. We know that job tax deductions are effective. Therefore, we want to expand them to reduce the alienation that has now affected Sweden.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-193	Madam President, I would like Everyone knows that this year's budget is the result of the button that Niklas Wykman pressed in the Riksdag last December. Niklas Wykman, take responsibility! Why was it right to dismantle labour market policies in a downward trend? Why was it right to save this money so that foreign-born women no longer have the opportunity to help in home care and get one foot into the labour market and then take another step to educate themselves? Niklas Wykman should stand here and defend what he has done and what button he has pressed. But he doesn't say a word. I can, however, tell you what I have done as Minister of Finance. We have increased opportunities and driving forces, not least for foreign-born women, to get into work. We have abolished the custody allowance introduced by the Moderates. We have redeployed parental insurance so that newly arrived women can enter the labour market more quickly. We have increased opportunities for education. We have given opportunities for women to learn Swedish at the same time as they are on parental leave. It is a wide range of measures, and they have had an effect. The proportion of women born abroad and men in employment has increased dramatically in my years as finance ministers. Out of over 300,000 jobs, 200,000 jobs have gone to foreign born. However, labour force participation has also increased. This means that unemployment has not fallen back in the same way it would otherwise have. But it's good. Our policy has also led to more people entering the labour market. That is the result of my policy. But the result of Niklas Wykman's policy is that the opportunities for foreign-born women to get that important first step into the labour market are again reduced. Niklas Wykman should explain why he thinks it is right and proper.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-196	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me how the proposal in the January agreement contributes to increasing the driving forces for work, increased employment and lower unemployment. He has also asked what concrete measures in the government's economic policy contribute to safeguarding the work line. Finally, he asks how the taxation of companies should be made more favourable in the future. Jobs and employment are the priority areas in the January agreement. A job is the most important prerequisite for self-sufficiency and, for foreign born, establishment in Swedish society. There should be good drivers for work and good opportunities to get support for those who find it difficult to enter the labour market. The Government is carrying out a comprehensive knowledge boost with initiatives in the entire education sector, from upper secondary school, adult education, university of applied sciences and education to higher education and universities. In the budget proposal for 2020, the Government proposes start-up jobs, entry deductions, increased resources for labour market training, continued study start-up support and more participants in matching services. These proposals are estimated to contribute to higher employment and lower unemployment. At the same time, employment in the local government sector is supported by 20 additional welfare billions. Ensuring access to preschool and care for the elderly also maintains Sweden's very high labour force participation. The government and our partners want to strengthen Sweden's economy by promoting a more competitive and innovative business community and making it easier for entrepreneurs. At the end of the six months, new legislation came into force that facilitates generational changes in small-time companies. The budget proposal for 2020 announced a reduction in employers' contributions through the start-up deduction, and announced a reduction in employers' contributions for people working in research or development to improve opportunities for companies to carry out research.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-199	Madam President, I would like Sweden will have Europe's lowest unemployment rate," said Stefan Löfven and Magdalena Andersson in the 2014 election campaign. It was an ambitious objective, but completely unrealistic. Today, November 2019, we are 23 in the EU out of 28 countries. We're in the corner of shame, and it's really bad. We have higher unemployment than we have in many years. Over 7% of the working population do not go to work in the morning. We have the second lowest growth in the EU in 2019, and in 2020 we are predicted to get the lowest growth across the EU – this despite a prolonged boom for many years. We have a world-class export industry that is a real traction locomotive and which pulls in 53 per cent of Swedish gross domestic product. Madam President, I would like The new jobs are created in companies and by entrepreneurs with drive. However, the government does not seem to understand this and what to do to get the country going. What business taxation does the Minister intend to do more favourably in the future and how? Sweden needs stronger fiscal policies that stimulate investment in entrepreneurship and jobs. Reforms in the tax area, such as lower corporate tax, lower income tax and, above all, lower marginal taxes, are also needed. Sweden still has the third highest marginal tax rate in the world, despite the fact that by 2020 it will be abolished. What proposals does the Minister of Finance have to get businesses going so that there are more jobs, or is this just about subsidies and more money for labour market measures and adult education? Where are the proposals? I want the answer here. The Minister of Finance owes the House an answer.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-204	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in a serious situation. It's well known; it's not something that just counting inside some offices worry about. The government has repeatedly, most recently in News yesterday, repeated the message that one did not see this coming, that one had no idea of it and that it could in no way be predicted. How could this happen? We're almost in shock. ..................................................... But the situation we now find ourselves in is extremely predictable and has been awaited for a long time. The country's municipalities will face economic problems when the refugees they have received are no longer replaced by government money and then when the economy declines – when the labour market and growth decline. No reasonable government can claim that it did not see this coming and that it had no idea, for booms and recessions we have always had in the economy. We are now moving towards a weaker economy, and this obviously needs a Minister of Finance and a government to anticipate. The consequences of actions cannot reasonably be unknown either. On the positive side, the Minister for Finance and the Government have promised measures to meet the kind of problems that Sweden has, for example the very serious problem that the Minister for Finance's policy has led to Sweden's expected lowest growth in the whole of the European Union next year. No finance minister thus succeeds worse with growth than Magdalena Andersson does. But Magdalena Andersson has not been completely abandoned to this. Action should be taken – a tax reform. Interpellant Kjell Jansson asked for at least partial answers about the tax reform. In what way will it be more profitable, better and easier to run companies in Sweden, so that we can get more of growth, creativity, dynamism, job growth and job creation, so that more people can enter the labour market and so that there will be more money to distribute to the police, healthcare and other important things for all of us? How's the tax reform going, Magdalena Andersson? Where in the process around this is the government and its support parties the Center Party and the Liberals? It is promised that there will be a tax reform. Now it's 2019. Soon it will be 2020, and soon there will be elections again in 2022. A tax reform requires a long preparation of one kind or another – some form of investigation or the like. There is no news about this. I wonder whether the Minister for Finance can give a reply or at least tell us where this tax reform is in the process. How are the talks with the Center Party going? How's the preparation work going at the Ministry of Finance? When can we expect to know when the process will at least begin? This is one thing. The second, which Kjell Jansson also asked about in his interpellation, is how it goes to strengthen and improve the conditions for companies. The Minister of Finance has repeatedly repeated a desire – whether it is a political direction or not is well unclear, but it is at least a wish – to increase the tax on investment and entrepreneurship. In several interviews, including in Today's Industry, we have been able to read that the Minister of Finance wants to make the so-called 3:12 rules less favourable and drive the tax more towards taking risks, investing and hiring in the economy. It would be good if these entrepreneurs could be informed of the way in which the Finance Minister, deep down, wants to reduce these conditions. Madam President, I would like Generally threatening those who want to create jobs with deterioration, I think is a bad idea if you want jobs to be more.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-217	Madam President, I would like How are the jobs going to be more? When I talk to companies, there are three main points they raise. The first is that they find it difficult to find the right skills. The second is that they have problems with infrastructure – not least rail is a major problem that is addressed, but it also applies to roads. The third is housing – if you want to recruit people, it is often difficult to find a dwelling. In fact, it is very rare that they raise taxes. Above all, this applies to 3:12 companies, which, on the contrary, often say that they are well aware that the 3:12 rules are disproportionately favourable compared to what ordinary wage earners pay in tax. In these areas, the government has important proposals. When it comes to skills development, we have a comprehensive programme to expand the new knowledge boost. As far as investments are concerned, we are currently implementing the largest infrastructure planning that has taken place. As far as housing is concerned, we have once again been able to have the important investment aid for rental housing. If people are going to move to work, it is often important that they can rent a dwelling. This is something the Moderates took away. In addition, we are implementing some tax changes and reductions aimed, among other things, at facilitating generation shifts for small companies that are going to grow and for innovative and research-intensive companies that hire people. In addition, there are proposals in this area. The answers of the Moderates to all questions are usually to reduce the tax, but there the companies I talk to often have a slightly different view.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-221	Madam President, I would like It was a good answer from the Minister for Finance that she wants to expand the road network – it is good that she understands this. I think that there are good reasons for starting and developing the Eastern Connection and the Södertörn Trail. A new port has been built down in Norvik that the state was involved in, but no road has been built. So you should go 40 km to Stockholm with all the goods and then back when you go south. There's a complete hole in the head in the planning. I would also like to hear whether the Minister for Finance thinks it is good for family businesses and small companies with human resources when their own children who work in the companies are punished. Does the Minister of Finance think that having high marginal taxes will create more jobs? Does the Minister of Finance think that new jobs will be created by the labour market legislation – LAS – that we have today? Does the Minister of Finance think that it is possible to reform it and that there will be more jobs? I wonder. The Minister of Finance owes the answer. Timbro came today with a report in Dagens Nyheter. The aim is to reduce marginal and capital taxes. Is the view of the Minister of Finance consistent with this? Does the Minister of Finance think this is a good proposal? Reduced taxes give more capital on the market; higher taxes make the state stronger and man weaker. Does the Minister of Finance believe that family week and leave is a successful way for new jobs? Does the Minister of Finance think that the general benefit system needs to be strangled in order to create more jobs? The Minister of Finance owes the answer. We are moving towards a real crayfish with the lowest growth in the EU by 2020, despite the fact that we have the world's best export industry.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-230	Madam President, I would like If Swedish exports flourished, if Swedish employment flourished, if Sweden belonged to the best countries in the European Union to create jobs and combat unemployment, if Swedish growth was among the highest in the developed world, if Sweden's growth was at the top of the EU's lists, if Malmö was a safe city, if Sweden's municipalities had plenty of resources and if Swedish health care was free from queues, I would be relatively satisfied as Minister of Finance. But given what Sweden looks like today – with insecurity, low growth and a lack of funding at the core of welfare – I would not be at all as satisfied as Magdalena Andersson seems to be, but rather I would be concerned. Above all, I would be busy implementing reforms that could reverse the development, which could regain security in Malmö, which could break the alienation, which could give growth power to Swedish companies and to Swedish growth and which could ensure that Sweden was once again a successful country that could be described as in the Nordic light, where together we felt a great confidence in the future. But this requires reforms and a curious and forward-looking Minister of Finance. So I repeat my question to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson: What about the great promised tax reform? What do the calls look like? What's the process? Where are we? Sweden needs a message, because Sweden needs change.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-234	Madam President, I would like I note that when we talk about infrastructure, Kjell Jansson is extremely interested in building roads in the Stockholm area. I myself see great needs in other parts of the country as well. I do not really believe in just the Stockholm-focused policy, because there is a great need for improvement of infrastructure and road networks throughout the country. When it comes to reducing marginal taxes, research shows that lower marginal taxes on those with high incomes increase, above all, hours worked and do not affect employment and unemployment very much. This is something on which the research is fairly unanimous. The Timbro report is interesting. There they propose EUR 245 billion in tax cuts. Then I understand that they mean that 140 of them should be made by cuts. If the Moderates think it's good politics, it would be interesting to hear from Kjell Jansson what 140 billion you want to cut down. This is particularly interesting in view of the fact that Niklas Wykman in his speech says that the municipalities have problems with their resources, which is an opinion that I share. That is why I regret the 20 billion tax cuts that the Moderates pushed through before the country even had a government. Niklas Wykman thinks I should be busy implementing reforms. I am very busy carrying out reforms every hour that I do not stand in Parliament and have interpellation debates, which in itself is a great pleasure. Some of the reforms I also listed in my interpellation response. The tax reform and the ambitions that we have with it are something that I am discussing with the four parties behind the wording of the tax reform. When we are ready to discuss this publicly or with other parties, we will return.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-239	Madam President, I would like It was interesting about the Stockholm fixation. Of course I'm Stockholm-fixed. I am chairman of the Moderates of Stockholm County; that is my job. I would like to inform the Minister for Finance that 40% of the tax revenue from growth comes from the Stockholm region. Only last Friday, we received a report from the Chamber of Commerce saying that growth is now slowing down sharply in the Stockholm region and that it is the beginning of a recession eventually. It is therefore of great importance that state investment goes to the Stockholm region. The only capital in Europe, Madam President, that does not have a ring trail, is Stockholm now. I think even Tirana got one. The question remains, Madam President: will there be any tax reform? Is it only the JÖK parties that will produce it, or will the other parties be involved, for example the Moderates, who have quite a lot of healthy proposals on the tax issue? There is also one answer to the question: how will the Minister of Finance produce measures for more jobs and more growth in Sweden, or is it just higher taxes and subsidies that apply? The municipalities are going bad now, and we know why. It is because the state has forced upon them a great reception. It was paid for for two years, and now the costs remain and have many people who do not get into the labour market. The Minister of Finance is responsible for the answer, and the Minister of Finance is actually responsible for this after five years.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-245	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson says I owe the answer. I've answered the questions, but I can do it again. How are we going to create more jobs? When I talk to entrepreneurs, there are three things they highlight: skills provision, infrastructure and housing. With the fact that I am apparently guilty again, I can repeat the answers again. When it comes to competence development, we have a major programme for knowledge development, the Knowledgelift, because increased competence is something that companies are asking for. When it comes to infrastructure, we have a major infrastructure investment not only in Stockholm, where it is important investments, but also in the rest of the country. As far as housing is concerned, we have reintroduced the support for the construction of rental apartments that the Moderates removed. I can repeat the answers more times if Kjell Jansson so wishes.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-252	Madam President, I would like Mattias Karlsson has asked me whether it is reasonable to change fiscal rules that have only been in force for eleven months and how long I believe that a cross-block agreement such as the fiscal framework should apply in order for it to be perceived as credible. First, I'd like to start with some history. When central government finances were sanitized in the 1990s, one of the central elements was to introduce a fiscal framework so that Sweden would never end up in a similar situation again. Part of the framework was the introduction of a budgetary surplus target. At the time of the introduction there was not as broad support for the surplus target, among others the Moderates were against it. There were three main reasons for the introduction of the surplus target: firstly, to restore confidence in public finances and reduce the need for foreign borrowing; secondly, to allow for stabilisation policies and, thirdly, to help the public to meet the demographic challenge ahead. The idea was never that the public sector would have a surplus of 1% for all eternity, but that the level of the target would be reconsidered in the future. Now we have a different situation. Since we took office in 2014, the government has turned the deficit into surplus and equipped Sweden. Government debt is now the lowest since 1977. At the same time, we are currently in the middle of the demographic shift that we have been preparing for. Against this background, during the last parliamentary term, the government initiated a review of the fiscal framework. Even before the Committee on Budgets was set up, we announced that the level of the surplus target should be reduced to a balancing target. Developments since the conclusion of the agreement have further strengthened the arguments for a balance-sheet objective. The general government gross debt has fallen faster than the development envisaged by the Committee of the Regions. In addition, monetary policy has difficulty in achieving the inflation target, which means that the risks of an expansionary fiscal policy are currently less than the Committee saw before it. The government is therefore ready to bring forward a review of the target level if there is a broader consensus.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-258	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his reply. As a product of the 1990s crisis, the surplus target for the state was created. Since then, this and the other fiscal framework have served us well. The goal is that public sector financial savings should reach a certain level in order for there to be money to use when times get worse. But since 2015, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson wants to abolish the surplus target and replace it with a balance sheet target that only requires the government's revenue and expenditure to be combined. Since the Minister of Finance first aired his view of abandoning the surplus target, the issue has been partially buried, since a parliamentary committee in 2016 concluded that the surplus target would be maintained but reduced from 1% to a third of GDP. That scheme only came into force this year. Although the surplus target is now close to zero, the Minister for Finance is not satisfied. If more parties are on the ball, the Minister of Finance would like to review the framework once again, despite the fact that the agreement in force says that it will take place every eight years. The Minister of Finance and the Social Democrats are not alone in wanting to release the relatively low demand for savings that she is now bound to, but that she will not achieve with much certainty either this year or 2020 if you believe the latest forecasts of the Swedish Financial Control Agency. Several interest groups also want the money that now goes to savings instead to be spent on other things. Now that the public debt is so low, there is no reason to keep saving, lets the reasoning. However, the criticism of the surplus target is on a weak footing. There are, of course, investment needs in several places, but why is it the savings money that should be used for that? At the same time, considerable sums of money are spent on unnecessary subsidies and inefficient climate investments. When investments need to be made, it is most reasonable to cut unnecessary expenditure, not to scrap savings. The introduction of a balance-sheet target is also risky, not least because the now very low surplus target is, in practice, almost a balancing target. If the Minister of Finance fails to reach the target, it will also be particularly risky. A further reduction of the ambition by a balancing target will make it easier for the Minister of Finance to reach the target, but it also opens up the possibility of continuing to narrow the margin at the bottom of the argument that the situation requires it. With a continued surplus target, different assessments can be made in different situations. It may well be that sometimes it is not reached, but such budgetary decisions must, in that case, be properly defended. Saving for worse times, as we are now entering, should continue to be the norm. The government cannot continue to be generous with unnecessary expenditure and, at the same time, further lower the ambition of saving.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-268	Madam President, I would like I note that the Moderates do not have very many people with them in the debate, but there are very many others who also believe that a balance target would be more balanced at this point in time. Sweden has a low public debt, and we are currently entering the period for which we created the surplus target in preparation for. Now the big 40-thousands are coming up in their 80s. A lot of children were born in the 1940s, and they now come up to the age when you need more health care, care for the elderly and home care. In the coming years, this will mean very substantial expenditure increases for municipalities and county councils. At the same time, the 90th century litters were also large. They are now of childbearing age, and this means that teachers and preschool teachers will have to be employed throughout the country. Together, these two things mean that municipalities and county councils will have a tricky financial situation in the future. My assessment is that it would be more balanced to make it easier for municipalities and county councils than to pay off on the public debt. We have an exceptional situation ahead of us. We in Sweden have had a fairly stable dependency ratio for a very long time, i.e. the proportion of younger and older people who need to be supported by them of working age. But right now a very clear shift is taking place because of the 40s and 90s. Our 40s have worked a long career, so they should have a safe old age. But then we must also ensure that the municipalities and county councils have sufficient resources. My assessment is that, at this point, it would therefore be more balanced to have a balance objective. Even with balance-sheet targets, public debt decreases as the economy grows.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-273	Madam President, I would like I do not think it is serious to tear up the fiscal framework after eleven months. The policy has stated that the regulatory framework is to be reviewed every second term. It is not reasonable to have that time horizon if you want there to be any credibility for the rules that we have agreed on. However, after the autumn budget process, it is likely that the bill for the January agreement will be higher than many would have expected. Already expensive items in the programme can be extended in the negotiations and supplemented by completely new expenditure. The Liberals, for example, demanded a contribution to the prison service that was not included in the 73-point programme. At the same time, the points for which the Social Democrats have fought, such as family week, have not even begun to be implemented. Added to this is that LO now requires the removal of the surplus target. You want more money for your wish list, which includes increased contributions and increased public spending. It is well understood that the money would still not be enough, and LO therefore also requires increased taxes. I understand that the Minister for Finance has difficulty resisting these forces. The risk is that the Minister of Finance will soon run out of money. In this situation, I feel an understanding that the abolition of the surplus target in this context would be a convenient solution for the government.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-277	Madam President, I would like This is not about external pressure, it is an opinion that I have had since 2015. So that is not a new idea on my part. Mattias Karlsson wonders how long a cross-block agreement will last. I have not said that we are going to leave the agreement, but given that things have changed since it was concluded, I am simply saying that I think we should be able to reopen the discussion. But I'm not threatening to leave it, nor am I going to leave it. Perhaps it is a bit daring for a moderate to raise the issue of sticking to agreements or not. The Moderates left the December Agreement after nine months. It was an agreement that we concluded and said it would be in force for eight years, but you left it. You didn't say you were prepared to discuss it again, but you said – or texted – just that you weren't behind it anymore. As far as the energy agreement is concerned, you have not said that there have been new facts and that you would like to discuss it again. No, your party leader went out into the paper and threatened to leave it. That's how the Moderates act. It's not responsible. I say, however, that I am open to discussion. That's how you can act.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-281	Madam President, I would like The current fiscal framework is balanced, and it is a strength that it has a cross-block anchor. The current pressure on the accelerator and a sharp increase in public spending risk leading to a waste of public money. These are the means that will be needed in the coming recession. However, a review of the targets is planned every eight years. Until then, the Minister of Finance may well hold the money.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-282	Madam President, I would like The resistance of the Moderates was strong when we introduced the surplus target, and they called it overtaxation. When we then wanted to change the surplus target, they were also very opposed to it and felt that we should definitely retain the surplus target, which was previously called overtaxation. But we managed to bring them down to a third of a percent. Now that we say that the time may be ripe to review this, the Moderates are against this again. Perhaps this is the definition of being conservative. However, I have no hurry, because I know I have time on my side. Balancing targets are the most balanced for Sweden's economy in this situation.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-284	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me what measures I will take to assign and use the coordination numbers for the correct reasons, to put an end to abuses with coordination numbers and to remove the coordination numbers that are not used. A person who is not or has not been registered in the public register may be assigned a coordination number at the request of a State authority or of certain individual training providers where the requesting operator needs a coordination number in order to avoid confusion or to exchange information about the person with other authorities or organisations. It is true that the use of coordination numbers in society is different today from when the system was introduced in 2000. Coordination numbers still play an important role in meeting authorities' needs for an identifier for persons who are not or have been registered in Sweden. Today, however, the function of the coordination numbers is also important for people who are staying in Sweden for a not very short time and who have a strong need to have a functioning identifier in order to manage their everyday lives. However, I would like to make it clear that a coordination number does not provide any rights or benefits per se. However, there may be a need for the number for, for example, an authority's handling of various cases. Data from the population register, including coordination numbers, often form the basis for other authorities' decisions. Nevertheless, the coordination numbers do not function optimally today. The wider use of coordination numbers in society also places higher demands on the system. Several of the problems associated with coordination numbers are based on inadequate identity checks and, in the event of incomplete control, there are risks of widespread use and acceptance of the number in society. The Government and the Swedish Tax Agency have therefore taken a number of measures. The Swedish Tax Agency, together with other authorities, has conducted training courses in document review, focusing on how to interpret information in genuine identity documents and foreign documents. In 2018, the Swedish Tax Agency has introduced an application in the framework of a government commission that will pay attention to whether different people use the same identity document when handling matters related to coordination numbers. The Swedish Tax Agency has also examined certain aspects of the coordination number system in connection with another government assignment and has analysed risks in its account of the assignment of coordination numbers and how these could be addressed. The Swedish Tax Agency also proposes how coordination numbers that are no longer used in society should be handled. The case is now being prepared within the Government Office. However, further action is needed to change and strengthen the coordination number system. The Government therefore decided on 5 September 2019 on the Comitology Directive Measures to reduce errors in civil records. The mission of the State investigation includes, inter alia, investigating and proposing a safer coordination number system to meet the needs of both individuals and other actors of a reliable and useful identifier for persons who are not or have been registered in the public register. Finally, I would also like to mention that the government in the budget proposal for 2020 has proposed that the Swedish Tax Agency's appropriations be increased in order to improve the quality of public records. With the addition, the Swedish Tax Agency will be able to detect, investigate and correct more errors in the population register.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-293	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The abuse of coordination numbers is widespread and requires immediate and effective action. It's been going on for too long. Several authorities have alerted the lack of control and damage to society in several reports. Proposals for amendments have been made, but the government has not returned. In his reply, the Minister refers to the Comitology Directive Measures to reduce errors in civil records, which the government decided in September this year. Yes, there is a real need for proper records to be kept. The case of Iraq's Minister of Defence, who is registered in Sweden under a different name and receives various grants, has clearly shown that the control has failed in several areas, not just the population register. I see it as a problem that the comitology directive states that there should be additional possibilities to assign coordination numbers in addition to those already in place today. This will increase the risk of abuse. There are many areas where the coordination numbers are used for criminal purposes. Money laundering and terrorist financing are examples. Co-ordination numbers assigned without careful control make it impossible to trace the crime profits and the criminals responsible for the crime. This makes Sweden a very attractive country for criminals. Co-ordination numbers on incorrect grounds also open the door to crime against the welfare system. Often it is incorrect work permits, false certificates and incorrect public records that cause false payments. It is frightening that anyone can enter Sweden and take part of the Swedish welfare without having contributed. In her interpellation response, the Minister says that she wants to make it clear that a coordination number does not provide any rights or benefits per se. No, not really, but basically. This is what the Swedish Tax Agency's report says An analysis of the coordination number for taxation purposes: a coordination number gives in principle EU/EEA citizens the same rights to the welfare system (residence and work-based benefits) as a social security number. Work income linked to a coordination number may entail work-based benefits and pension rights for citizens from all countries, regardless of whether a work permit exists and whether the coordination number is based on genuine documents. In other words, with very simple means you can have access to sickness benefit, unemployment benefit, housing allowance, pension or everything together without being entitled to it. Is it responsible, then, that more people should have coordination numbers and that the use of coordination numbers in society should be increased?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-298	Madam President, I would like The answer to that question is no. Today, an individual cannot ask for the coordination number himself, but can only go through the authorities. At the same time, if we are to increase the possibility of getting a coordination number, we must tighten up the control system. It's quite obvious. Just to increase the use of coordination numbers as it works today without also implementing a tightening-up should not happen. On the other hand, the government has taken a wide range of measures to reduce fraud against our welfare systems. The first thing we did when we entered 2014 was to set up an investigation with Lars-Lars-Erik Lövdén to look at grant crimes and how to counteract them. After that, the government has taken a wide range of measures with regard to population records in general and how to obtain welfare benefits that you should not really have, but also specifically with regard to coordination numbers. One of the things we have done with coordination numbers is to raise awareness of the need to control. The individual authority that wants a person to have a coordination number has an obligation to verify the authenticity of the identity documents. The IRS, which should only issue coordination numbers and not check, has taught other authorities how to control this. This has had an effect. Let me give you two examples. Prior to this training, the Swedish Vehicle Transport Agency rejected 28 applications throughout the year 2017; in 2018, 238 applications were rejected. In the area of driving licences, in 2017 37 applications were rejected; in 2018 317. So far this year, a further 275 applications have been rejected. It is therefore clear that the measure has had an effect. Another measure that can reduce the risk of this going wrong is that the Swedish Tax Agency has developed a new application to pay attention if you use the same document. In addition, we have provided special resources for the Swedish Tax Agency in order to detect errors in population records and check. In the Government Office we are now looking at further measures to strengthen the coordination number system in the short term. We also have an investigation to review the system in the longer term. In addition, the government has taken a wide range of measures to limit the opportunities for cheating with our welfare systems in general. Census crimes have been re-introduced. The IRS can make spontaneous visits to check population records. It is possible to de-register false identities in the population register. A wide range of other measures have been taken. This is an important area. The government has been working intensively on this issue since we came into government position and will continue that work.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-305	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I take it as a promise that there will be no loosening of the possibility of getting coordination numbers before the control has really been tightened up and can ensure that those who receive coordination numbers have a defined identity. It is good to start from the right side: first eliminate all possibilities for criminals to operate and then give EU and EEA citizens the opportunity to request the allocation of coordination numbers themselves, as proposed in the comitology directive. I am concerned that this opportunity will open up to even more abuse, despite the measures that the Minister has just told us about. The comitology directive states that EU and EEA citizens must be made easier to come to Sweden and be able to operate h is. But there are several ways to attract these citizens here. It is, for example, about the fine nature and well-ordered society. Unfortunately, the recent increase in crime involving armed robbery, bombings and shootings has reduced Sweden's attractiveness. Much of that is because we don't know who's coming into the country. We have far too many examples of European citizens from the poorest countries of the Union who are being taken to Sweden by unscrupulous gangs to commit crimes, beg or prostitute themselves. These people are being heavily exploited. They are usually sent back to their home country after they have received the coordination number, and this number is used to commit various crimes. It is about money laundering, welfare fraud and so on. It is irresponsible to make it easier to obtain a coordination number before other legislation has come into place, such as a national ban on begging, the possibility of expelling EU citizens who commit serious crimes in Sweden, etc. Instead, controls should be tightened up and the allocation of coordination numbers should be even more restrictive. Now there are sites online in different languages that give tips on how to get a coordination number in Sweden. The Minister did not mention anything about how to check that the employment certificate is correct and proper. The Minister mentioned how they have improved their procedures at the Swedish Transport Agency. But it is still not satisfactory. It is still possible to buy a scrap car and register as its owner and as a result get a coordination number without having to report to the authority. Perhaps one has become more skilled at sifting away the worst fake passports. But obviously you're not good enough, or the counterfeiters are very skilled. The coordination number system is not meant to act as a magnet for criminals and fraudsters. I believe that the generous contributions that people receive in Sweden make many try to get here to get access to these. I wonder if the Government would consider tightening up the rules for grants.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-313	Madam President, I would like I fully share Boriana Åberg's view that we cannot make it easier to get coordination numbers if we do not at the same time tighten up controls so that people have correct identity documents. Personal cancellation is definitely one of the questions that you can look at if it is so that a person can request a coordination number himself. I fully share that view. At the same time, Sweden is being criticised by the Commission for the fact that it may be difficult for EU citizens and EEA citizens to obtain a coordination number. I myself know of a Swiss citizen who was unable to get his coordination number in Sweden. This makes life very difficult for the law-abiding EU citizens who have a job in Sweden. It is difficult to open a bank account and get your salary, for example, if you do not have a coordination number. It's important that it works. But then control must also be central. For me as a social democrat, this is that we have order and order in our welfare systems absolutely fundamental. The fact that people can receive support during the periods of their lives when they need it, for example if they become ill, work-injured or unemployed, is based on the fact that there are good controls so that people cannot cheat on those subsidies. Much of the cheating we now see in Sweden is also linked to the business that exists within welfare systems or the public sector. Unfortunately, we see too many high-profile cases of fraud in assistance payments but also cheating with various forms of employment support. It is important to have good control of those companies which, unfortunately, are currently cheating on public aid. At the same time, these are important measures. That is why it is incredibly important that we have control and put enough resources into this. The first thing the government did was therefore to set up an investigation to see how to limit the possibility of cheating. Since then, the government has also taken a wide range of measures to curb the abuse.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-318	Madam President, I would like I did not have time to say everything in my last speech. I would like to ask the Government whether she is prepared to take action so that the rules on who receives a grant or not are tightened up and that a system is introduced in which people qualify to take part in Swedish welfare. It would be very restrictive of all kinds of crime with our welfare systems. The Social Democratic Minister for Social Affairs Gustav Möller coined the concept: Every wasted tax crown is a theft from the people. Now we can say that the tax chandeliers go directly to criminals through the misuse of the coordination number. I very much hope that the Minister is serious and that any proposals for action that come from various investigations into how to curb welfare crime and other crime will become real laws and that it will happen urgently. The abuse of tax funds is a mockery of everyone who goes to work every day, does the right thing and pays taxes. We know that the Swedish Tax Agency is very effective in terms of contacts and practices with law-abiding citizens. It is now necessary to apply the same efficiency to the allocation of coordination numbers. The Swedish Tax Agency needs all the conditions to prevent, investigate and prosecute crimes. Immigration also needs to be radically reduced. It has been discovered that people who have applied for asylum have received several identities. Out of 700 000 coordination numbers issued, 150 000 have become social security numbers. The remaining half a million, you don't know anything about.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-322	Madam President, I would like I want to thank you for the interpellation. Boriana Åberg raises an extremely important issue. We shall have order in our welfare systems. That is why we must ensure that the identities and censuses that exist in Sweden work in the way they are supposed to. There the coordination numbers are a problem. This is where the legislation needs to be tightened up. It is important that authorities continue to work as they do today to increase the control of the coordination numbers distributed today. In addition, we look at the Ministry of Finance at what measures we can take in addition, both short-term and long-term, to strengthen the control of the coordination number system. At the same time, it is important to look at the results of the investigation led by Sven-Erik-Erik Österberg, who recently came about cheating in welfare systems. They concluded that of the overall welfare fraud in Sweden, it is a small part that comes precisely from coordination numbers. It is important not to lose focus on the other parts. Yeah, we're gonna do a lot of things, and we're gonna do more. We'll have better order in the coordination numbers. But we also have to work against the other issues. There's more money there. There's a bigger leak in our welfare systems. It is important to have a broad focus so that we do not just fix the coordination numbers. They're a problem. But it is important that we also work towards general censuses. There, the crimes that the government has imposed, as well as controls and increased resources for the Swedish Tax Agency, are important. In addition, the Swedish Tax Agency has received completely new tools. We now have increased demands for the Swedish Tax Agency to exchange information between, for example, public records, ID operations and the Swedish Tax Agency's law enforcement activities. It is an area where the government is working with full force to reduce the possibility of cheating with our welfare systems.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-328	Madam President, I would like Mattias Karlsson has asked me several questions regarding how I view the limits of the Riksbank's right to decide on the payment infrastructure and in particular the Riksbank's plans to make the Swedish krona available for resolution on the European Central Bank's TARGET Instant Payment System, TIPS. As you know, the Riksbank is an authority during the Riksdag. Unlike government authorities, the Riksbank is governed not by regulations and regulations, but by law. The Riksbank's independence goes beyond that of other authorities by requiring our EU membership to have functional, institutional, personal and financial independence. In current Swedish legislation, this is expressed in the form of government, which states that no authority may decide how the Riksbank should decide on matters relating to monetary policy. According to the preliminary work on this paragraph, the prohibition of instruction includes other tasks that the Riksbank performs within the European System of Central Banks to promote the proper functioning of payment systems. As Mattias Karlsson certainly understands, as a minister, I cannot express myself, give instructions or otherwise seek to influence the Riksbank in its decisions, unless I risk disregarding the Constitution. However, I can note that according to the Riksdag Act, it is the Finance Committee that has to prepare matters regarding the Riksbank's operations. As the Riksdag stated in connection with the Riksbank's choosing to companyise its cash handling operations in the early 2000s, the Riksbank must inform the committee before making decisions that constitute a significant change in its operations. The Riksdag has considered that the democratic scrutiny of the Riksbank and the Riksbank's responsibility for preparedness need to be clarified and strengthened. I share that view, and that was also one of the reasons why the government, following an announcement by the Riksdag, appointed the Parliamentary Committee of the Riksbank in 2016. The Committee will present its final report on 29 November. However, it will be a while before we have a new Riksbank law in place, and as Mattias Karlsson points out, Sweden is well ahead in the digital development of the payment market. This also requires the Riksbank to develop the infrastructure it provides so that we can take advantage of the new opportunities that the fintech industry, among other things, is developing, but at the same time continue to promote a secure payment system. With regard to the specific issue of possible accession to TIPS, I assume that the Riksbank will take into account security and reliability aspects as well as the views of those concerned. I also assume that the Riksbank informs its principal, the Riksdag, and that Mattias Karlsson then, within the framework of his role in the Finance Committee, takes into account the questions he has put to me.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-335	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Finance for his reply. In line with digitalisation and innovation, Swedish payment systems are fundamentally changing. The goal is that all Swedes and companies should now be able to make transfers between different countries in different currencies. Everything should go second-rate, be available 24 hours a day, year-round, and meet increased security requirements. These developments have in turn led to higher demands on the underlying infrastructure that makes all this possible, so-called settlement services. Infrastructure is as basic as electricity grids, roads and railways. The model we have in Sweden, which makes all payment transactions possible, is a legacy from successful collaboration between private and public actors. The commercial banks are responsible for payments and clearing through the jointly owned company Bankgirot. The Riksbank is responsible for the resolution of matters. Simply put, one can say that the banks make transfers between each other in the Riksbank's settlement system R IX and thus ultimately settle the debts between the banks. At the beginning of June, the Riksbank presented its plan to procure a new settlement system and decided on a platform developed by the European Central Bank – Target Instant Payment System, TIPS. There may be reason to standardise and harmonise with the EU and its institutions when there are economies of scale and a logical explanation, which is not the case with TIPS. Of all the thousands of banks in Europe, only 25 have joined the TIPS. The only central bank currently connected is Latvia's. None of our Nordic neighbours are working to join – not even Finland, which is part of EMU, to which the system is primarily directed. The number of transactions in TIPS is also appallingly low; it is only a few hundred per day. To put this in a Swedish perspective, over 1 1⁄2 million transfers are made daily with Swish. There are also more worrying clouds. The TIPS itself is outsourced to Banca d 中 Italia, which means that we outsource the operation of our most important infrastructure for payments to a country two and a half thousand kilometres away. This development is just one of several cases of outsourcing of critical Swedish infrastructure, which cannot be waved away too easily. It seems that neither the government nor the Riksbank have thought through the problems that could arise in the event of a disaster or operational disruption, which in turn would have a monumental direct impact on Sweden's transaction economy.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-343	Madam President, I would like I must say that this is one of the stranger interpellations I have received in my role as Minister of State. Normally, interpellations are about our duties, the authorities we are responsible for and the decisions we make. It is sad that I need to remind Mattias Karlsson once again that the Riksbank is not an authority under the government, but during the Riksdag. Nor is it governed by the government, by regulatory letters or the like, but by law. Mattias Karlsson asks questions that are certainly relevant and that he can also expect answers to. However, they should not be addressed to me, but Mattias Karlsson, in his role as a member of the Riksdag, who is responsible for the Riksbank's activities, may set them up as representatives of the Riksbank. In the Finance Committee, he has the opportunity at any time to ask the Riksbank to come and answer questions and explain his view. As I point out in my answer to the interpellation, I obviously have no reason to go against our constitution, which makes it clear that the government does not affect monetary policy and should not decide how the Riksbank should decide on matters relating to it. According to the preparatory work, this also applies to tasks that the Riksbank performs within the European System of Central Banks to promote well-functioning payment systems. This means that as a minister I cannot express myself, give instructions or otherwise seek to influence the Riksbank in matters relating to these decisions. On the other hand, the Committee on Finance, as a representative of the Riksdag, has every opportunity to take a position on how the Riksbank is doing its work and also to amend the legislation if you are dissatisfied with the powers given to the Riksbank itself in the past. So I can simply send the questions back to Mattias Karlsson himself to answer.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-348	Madam President, I would like The government is responsible for financial stability. Against this background and given that this could definitely affect the same, I think that there is reason to have a discussion on this between Parliament and the government and try to analyse how it could have a detrimental effect on financial stability in the future. In Sweden, we are the world leader in creating companies that are defined as unicorns, i.e. tech companies with a value of over 1 billion dollars. With TIPS, the market dynamics built up over decades will disappear and the market will be monopolised. This means that it will be impossible to further develop financial services for Swedish consumers and companies with current flexibility and pace of development. The Swedish payment market would have to adapt to the slower pace of development desired by the whole European market and the European Central Bank together. Swish, which today connects 7 million people, is one example. TIPS would mean that Swish and Swedish banks need to undergo major changes only in order to function as they do today. The fact that the Riksbank wants to take such risks with our traditionally built-up payment system is, for me, a mystery, as well as the fact that we, as politically elected elected representatives in democratic elections, have not been allowed to participate in influencing such a critical issue for society. I think we all remember the Swedish Transport Agency's breakdown in 2017. A similar breakdown in Swedish payments would have unforeseen consequences, especially since coin production is now managed by a Finnish company and banknote production by an American company and if all digital payments will be made via the Banca d' Italia and the ECB in Frankfurt. We need a clear risk assessment and discussion. What is really best for Sweden's residents and companies? And is the Riksbank really to be allowed to take these decisions on its own without the matter being dealt with by the Swedish Parliament?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-353	Madam President, I would like The government is responsible for financial stability, and we are also taking that responsibility with all the necessary clarity. We make decisions that can cause people to feel that they are having trouble in their everyday lives or that it becomes unnecessarily complicated but that just aims to maintain stability for the future. For example, we are taking measures to curb household indebtedness so that we do not have a growth in indebtedness that puts us in great financial risks as a country and also at individual level. We will continue to take this responsibility, even though we often receive criticism from the opposition for the measures we take. As an opposition, it is very easy to always say: We can wait with the measures, it's more fun to party now, don't think about the future. That is not the attitude of the government. We take responsibility here and now to maintain financial stability. We will take that responsibility no matter how the financial markets develop. When new technologies come, when people stop using cash and start using Swish or other tools, the government will of course continue to take responsibility for financial stability. On the other hand, I find this question very strange. This whole debate is also very strange. It reminds me of that radio commercial that is going on right now where an entrepreneur asks at a platform what occupational pension he should choose, in answer to the question of whether there was anything else. The question is simply misdirected. It is not I who should answer the questions about the Riksbank's choices; it is Mattias Karlsson who will answer those questions. So there is even another twist here. It is not a point or the entrepreneur, but actually Mattias Karlsson, who will answer the questions: What rights and freedoms does the Riksbank have? Is the Riksbank's mandate well designed? If the Riksdag wants to take over issues that the Riksbank has today to decide on, it is possible that changes can be made, within the framework of our EU membership that the Riksbank should be an independent body. However, this is a question that Mattias Karlsson needs to ask his colleagues in the Committee on Finance. That is where the discussion should take place. If you want the Riksbank to have another toolbox and if you want to limit the Riksbank's independence to some extent, it is an issue that needs to be addressed in the Riksdag's Finance Committee. Mattias Karlsson has every opportunity to do that any day. So I find this debate very strange. I think that Mattias Karlsson may be able to use his time better than to ask questions to the government which, according to our legislation, is actually on Parliament's table.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-358	Madam President, I would like The Riksbank's independence regarding monetary policy is understandable. But the question should be asked whether this independence really goes so far as to decide, without a more thorough consultation with the Riksdag and relevant stakeholders, which IT system should form the Swedish payment system. I believe that the Riksbank has not analysed options other than outsourcing to TIPS at a deeper level. Very early it was concluded that it was the best option, without analysing other alternatives. One last question that we will probably see hanging in the air, in any case today, is whether the Riksbank had done a security analysis under the Security Act before choosing the TIPS option.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-361	Madam President, I would like It has been an interesting moment in Parliament. It leaves me with some thoughts about what we have really been doing in this quartet. I urge Mattias Karlsson to take the question where it belongs. Take it to the Finance Committee's table and bring it up with the Riksbank representatives, who are the ones who make the concrete decisions! The government will continue to take responsibility for financial stability. But we will respect both legislation and constitution, which says that the Riksbank has independence in this type of matter. If there is something to change, it is an issue that the Riksdag needs to deal with.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-363	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson has asked me when I will give a commission to Finansinspektionen to review the effects of and review the increased amortisation requirement as well as how I view young people's difficulties in establishing themselves in the ownership market. I would like to start by saying that issues relating to the housing market are important for the government. Sweden continues to have a high level of housing construction, although the number of homes started is expected to decrease slightly this year. In order to increase housing construction, the Government is currently working, in accordance with the January Agreement, on e.g. streamlining and concentrating investment support for rental apartments. The investment aid has been granted for more than 26 000 apartments and is an important tool for creating the conditions for building apartments with reasonable requirements for tenants' ability to pay. It is important that there is also good access to rental apartments throughout the country. For a long time we have seen how debts have risen in relation to household income. At the same time, the risks of increased indebtedness have been highlighted by both the Government and Finansinspektionen, the National Debt Office and the Riksbank. International assessors such as the IMF and the European Commission have also noted this and recommended measures to address the risks. Macroprudential supervision measures, including amortisation requirements, have been introduced to reduce the risks associated with household indebtedness and strengthen household resilience. I agree that it is important to evaluate the measures implemented. Therefore, last year the Government commissioned Finansinspektionen to develop methods to identify macroeconomic and financial stability risks and to evaluate macroprudential policy. This includes the effects of amortisation requirements. The assignment was finalized by Finansinspektionen in June 2019. The report showed that the macroprudential measures implemented have contributed to new mortgage borrowers borrowing less and buying less expensive housing than if the measures were not implemented. The increased amortisation requirement has also reduced the number of new mortgage borrowers with large loans in relation to their income and led to fewer vulnerable households. Overall, this shows that macroprudential measures have strengthened household resilience and contributed to a healthier amortisation culture. The IMF has assessed that the macroprudential measures implemented, including the enhanced amortisation requirement, have been well justified and have reduced the risks in the financial system. Finansinspektionen's mortgage surveys have shown that the share of new mortgages going to young people, defined as the age group 18-30 years, has remained stable at around 20 per cent since 2016. In 2012, the share was only 10 per cent. Having said that, there are difficulties for young people to enter the housing market. Finansinspektionen recently published an analysis of the situation of young people in the housing market, which shows that the main reason why it has become more difficult for young people to buy a dwelling in recent years is the rise in house prices. The solution to the challenges of the housing market cannot be to unilaterally facilitate further indebtedness. It is important to ensure a supply of housing that meets demand without rolling over the risks to households. In order to create better conditions for the housing market, we need a holistic approach and a long-term approach, which makes a broad political agreement desirable. In accordance with the January Agreement, which is a substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, a comprehensive tax reform is to be implemented which, among other things, aims to improve the functioning of the housing market while reducing household indebtedness. In such a review, it is natural to consider how, for example, young people's ability to establish themselves on the housing market can be facilitated.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-370	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is almost touching to hear Prime Minister Bolund's total unacceptance of the criticism repeatedly directed by representatives of parliamentary parties, financial experts, debaters and an almost united construction industry against amortisation requirements and mortgages. This applies in particular to the most recent amortisation requirement, which means that a borrower who takes out loans exceeding 4 1⁄2 per cent of annual income must amortise 1 per cent per year. The first requirement, introduced in 2016, means that if you borrow more than 50 per cent of the value of the dwelling, you must amortise 1 per cent of the loan per year until you reach less than 50 per cent and 2 per cent if you borrow 70 per cent. In addition to this, there has already been a mortgage deal where you can borrow only 85 per cent of the value of the dwelling. Madam President, I would like It is good for the debate to describe how this patchwork is built and how difficult it is, especially for young people, to be able to own their home. If you do not have rich parents or a income that far exceeds the normal of a young couple where both work, you can forget to borrow in a bank to own your home. Owning your home and amortising on a mortgage is a saving. This reduces overall housing costs over time compared to all other forms of leasing, and it reduces the pressure on the rental market from young residential consumers. Madam President, I would like Housing construction is falling again from a previously high but inadequate level. Woodhouse mills for series production of houses run at half speed because there are no buyers, while attractive residential apartments in large cities are being sold at ever higher prices to people with high incomes and a lot of money tucked away at the bank and in funds. It is rather their ability to pay that explains the high housing prices that Finansinspektionen states is the main reason for the displacement. The real reason why young people are being pushed away is not housing prices, but the amortisation requirement. This can be demonstrated by economist Lars E. O. Svensson, who has written a debate article on this. Per Bolund claims that young people borrow more today than they did before. He did so only last Thursday during Question Time. In fact, by 2012, mortgages among young people have remained at 10 per cent and then remained stable at around 20 per cent since 2016. To suggest, on the basis of this, that there would be an increase is almost unserious. Instead of increasing the share of the housing market, it decreases in relation to other buyer groups. As has been said before, high income is required in order to borrow. Before claiming anything like the Minister did, it should be ensured that it characterizes the whole group of young people. Rather, it is likely that the group that borrows today is smaller but borrows more than it has in the past. More young people are still excluded from the housing market than before. That is the point of introducing the tougher rules, i.e. that young people should borrow less and therefore not get housing, is it not? In his reply, Per Bolund refers to the assignment given to Finansinspektionen to evaluate itself. Of course, there is no reason to question one's own actions. Should any effect be produced that can be perceived as positive, it is the one that confirms that the measure has been correct based on Finansinspektionen's approach to the matter. Finansinspektionen further claims that young people borrow lower amounts and buy cheaper housing than before. But that's an assumption and nothing you can prove. Young people borrow less, but according to a report from the insurance company Skandia, the share of young people with an 18 year older co-borrower has increased since 2016 from 15 per cent to 24 per cent. Young people borrow less, yes, but only if they have parents to help. The majority, a growing proportion, are refused their loan applications and thus never included in the statistics.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-380	Madam President, I would like This seems to be the day of strange interpellations. Ola Johansson is now speaking with breast tones, but the question that Ola Johansson has asked me is whether I should not give a mission to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, which Ola Johansson mentions in her question. He then rumbles here that Finansinspektionen would review itself, but if it is a criticism that Ola Johansson wants to present, I wonder why he has asked the question about when I should give a mission to Finansinspektionen. It's a strange question, you might think. It is also strange to ask a question as to why I do not allow Finansinspektionen to evaluate these measures when I have given a mandate to Finansinspektionen to investigate these particular measures. That mission is also reported to the government. Ola Johansson has probably not really been involved in the decisions that the government has taken and the activities that are going on in this area, which I regret. Of course, we take the situation of young people in the housing market very seriously. We are trying to do everything we can to ensure that there is a better match between supply and demand in the housing market. I think that Ola Johansson can still agree with me that the basic problem in the housing market we have is that there is a very large demand and a too small supply that matches the demand. The rental market and the owned market are of course also two communicating vessels. Young people who today cannot access a rental apartment due to the fact that housing queues are in many cases very long are forced more or less to enter the property market in order to obtain a dwelling. This also leads to an increase in demand and thus to an increase in prices. That is what we have seen in large parts of the country, not least in the big cities, where for many years, especially in the eight years when it was a bourgeois-led government, prices have risen enormously. These were price rises of 10 to 15 per cent per year. To argue from Ola Johansson that it would not affect the possibility for young people to ask for an apartment I think is against sense and sense and also against the knowledge that we are actually sitting on. Of course, when prices rise considerably more than income, it becomes more difficult and difficult for a young person to realize the dream of getting a good place to live. We are trying to match supply to demand, not least through many measures that Ola Johansson and I agree on and are implementing within the framework of the January Agreement. We are reviewing the rental market and how it works and have decided that we will have continued investment aid. It has so far led to 26 000 rental apartments with reasonable rents, thus becoming available to people who have an income that is not in the top tier. In addition, we are now making sure that we have a building that is at very high levels historically. It is worth noting that every year with a red-green government and a green housing minister it has been built more than in any single year when we had bourgeois parties who led housing policy in Sweden. Every year more than a single year has been built during the time of the bourgeois government in power. This means that we have now come up in a building act that at least rhymes better with the demand that exists. Now that we are discussing the obvious, it is also clear that 20% is more than 10%. There is something in line with Five Ants are more than four elephants. Ola Johansson seems to think that there has been a decrease. But 20 percent of mortgage holders today are young, up to 30 years old. In 2012, this figure was 10 per cent. It's hard to say it's not an increase. Now that level is stable– it is not decreasing and it is not increasing. It shows that young people can still get loans in the credit market today, unlike what the myths sometimes spread from the pulpit here say that it would be impossible to obtain loans today. That's not true.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-388	Madam President, I would like The Government noted that this is a strange issue given that he has already commissioned Finansinspektionen to carry out the evaluation that I am asking about. At the same time, I stress the importance of young people's housing situation. In his reply, Per Bolund actually responds to the criticism of Finansinspektionen's own evaluation. It indicates that he has understood the question. Per Bolund and Finansinspektionen seek confirmation from international assessors such as the IMF and OECD to strengthen their thesis that amortisation requirements are needed and have been effective. It is claimed that the problems of household indebtedness as a result of mortgages are believed to jeopardise Sweden's economy as a whole. In an international comparison, however, the leverage ratio is high if you limit yourself to mortgages alone. But mortgages are, by their nature, a saving and an asset that is both vital and that, in a longer perspective, may be considered a safe investment. We're in good company. Norway and Denmark are countries whose households are significantly more indebted than the Swedish ones. Danish household debts are as much as 100% higher than ours today. Yet Denmark did better than Sweden during the 2008 major financial crisis. Although their indebtedness was as much as 340 per cent, which is comparable to 186 that we have in Sweden today, Denmark's bnp was not hit harder than ours. Real estate prices fell by 20 per cent, which is not a particularly low level, but they also recovered rapidly. Then you should remember that Denmark at the time had a real estate crisis, which Sweden did not have. High indebtedness does not have to involve a high risk, especially if it is combined with significant savings. Unlike many other pension savings, Swedes do not need to be debt-free on the day it is time to stop working. We pay a larger part of our income in tax and can therefore expect to have welfare financed when we need it. You cannot do that if you live in Italy, France or Spain, for example. There, households are much more likely to suffer, not because they have a high debt ratio, but because the household economy is more sensitive and has to bear other costs. Households' aggregate assets in Sweden are five times higher than loans. Swedish households have never been richer. Another thing that separates Sweden is that we have a low public debt. Overall, the economic situation of Sweden and Sweden is more stable than that of almost all other countries. As Per Bolund and Finansinspektionen, it is therefore not relevant to lift mortgages, which are part of household debt, and describe them as the major and only threat to the country's economy. The truly worrying part of household debt consists of consumer loans, non-recurring loans, and not mortgages. Lending should, of course, be responsible and be based on the borrower's ability to pay. It's obvious. But there is a need for a more nuanced discussion on household debt, just as a more nuanced discussion of violence and crime is needed. It is a small group of people who borrow a lot, while the vast majority suffer indirectly when all the focus is on extreme falls: those who deviate from normal. 9 percent have loans exceeding SEK 2 million. 55% have no loans at all, and the rest that borrows normal amounts, even quite small amounts, a maximum of 2 million, are in between. Households' ability to pay is measured by the number of times you can pay your loan interest with your income. Finansinspektionen itself says that household resilience is strong. In a 40 per cent fall in prices and 12 per cent increase in unemployment, no more than 2 per cent of households with new loans have problems with their payments.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-396	Madam President, I would like Let us note that the evaluation that Ola Johansson is asking me to make in this interpellation has already been carried out. The macroprudential measures, as it is called, which have been carried out have been analysed. The overall assessment has been that the introduced macroprudential measures and the restrictions imposed have not reduced demand in the Swedish housing market. It's still high. On the other hand, they have led to fewer vulnerable households. The very thing about vulnerable households is worth remembering. Ola Johansson describes mortgages as savings, which from an economic point of view is quite astounding. A loan is a loan. But it is also worth recalling that many thousands of people during the financial crisis in the 1990s had to sell homes on which they had high loans in a difficult economic situation. Housing prices had fallen, and they had more in loans than were received from sales. Today, there are still thousands of people in Sweden who remain in debt from that experience. I don't want anyone to end up there. That is why I also take financial stability as seriously as it deserves. I want to ask a question back to Ola Johansson. We have jointly in Sweden, with fairly broad political consensus, appointed expert authorities to ensure stability in the Swedish economy. It is the Financial Supervisory Authority, it is the Riksbank and it is the National Debt Office. These are the ones we have put the responsibility on when it comes to securing different parts but largely the Swedish economy. Following the 2008 financial crisis, there was also a need for external audits. One cannot simply rely on all countries to assume their responsibilities. There is a need to carry out cross-border audits. There is the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the OECD. They do that kind of review. All these, three Swedish authorities and foreign assessors, come to the same conclusion: that the high indebtedness in Sweden is a risk to the Swedish economy. When Ola Johansson comes to another conclusion, the question is whether all these assessors, with all their resources, are wrong. Is that the Center Party's and Ola Johansson's conclusion? Or does Ola Johansson ignore financial stability? He may not think it is an important issue; they are right, but we should not do anything about it. Or has the Center Party proposed other measures that the Financial Supervisory Authority, the Riksbank, the Swedish National Debt Office and international assessors have not analysed? Maybe the Center Party has come up with a solution to how to deal with this. It would be interesting to hear Ola Johansson's answer to that. I am a little surprised when Ola Johansson paints a picture of Swedish pensions being high and that we have no problem with people having too little to live on when they end their professional career. That is not the picture I face in my work as Minister of Finance. Rather, I hear complaints that pensions should be higher and that one should have a safer and more stable economy as one grows older. Of course you get a more stable economy if you have good control over your indebtedness and can build a buffer in the household. We have found an important balance. We must take responsibility for financial stability. There is always a lure when times are good to consume more and buy an even a bit more expensive dwelling. These are the words I hear from Ola Johansson. He wants to wait with restrictions and not have any restrictions but continue the party as long as it goes well. Ola Johansson forgets, however, that tomorrow can come when things are not going well. But we remember the effects. What happens when things don't go so well in the Swedish economy? The first thing that happens is that the public debt is rising. The second thing that happens is that, above all, the markets that are sensitive fall flat, and the housing market is a typical example of this. During the 1990s crisis and in many countries during the 2008 financial crisis, the housing market dived most deeply. It is worth remembering in this debate.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-404	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Housing makes it sound like only me and the Center Party are critical of the second amortisation requirement and can see the effects of it. But that's not true. There are several debaters and economists who blow the housing minister's and Finansinspektionen's arguments. Per Bolund is trying to defend himself against what many assessors consider to be correct figures. I started this debate so that with the help of figures I can show that there are major errors in Finansinspektionen's analysis, which the Minister for Housing defends with such emphasicity. The Minister of Housing also brings another error. They're not the ones who went into debt in the '90s that account for our big debt. This is wrong, and it is clear from the debt investigation of 2013. Without housing savings and with exorbitant prices caused by decades of misdirected subsidies, lack of mobility, complicated building rules, long planning processes and high thresholds, it will continue to look bleak for young people on the housing market. Tenants spend 28 per cent of their disposable income on housing, right-of-occupancy holders 20 per cent and home-owners about 15 per cent. Why should young households be forced into expensive newly produced rental apartments when they could instead own their homes? It is sad to listen to Per Bolund who, like Bagdad-Bob-Bob, repeats obvious errors instead of acting and taking measures that facilitate young people's entry and seriously evaluate and change credit restrictions. This can be done on Per Bolund's own initiative; he does not have to ask Finansinspektionen for permission. Madam President, I would like I'm disappointed. I seriously believed that Minister of Housing Per Bolund had managed to convince Minister of Finance Per Bolund to reconsider. But when this Dr. Jekyll and Mr Hyde story are over, I'm gonna give the government another chance to talk to itself.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-411	Madam President, I would like Some things have happened in the housing market in recent years. Much more is being built than it has been for a very long time. The average per year since the 1990s has been around 30 000 dwellings; today the pace of construction is at 50 000 dwellings. We see how the housing market is beginning to turn around the country. Demand for new apartments is increasing – contrary to the image that Ola Johansson is trying to paint that there would be no demand. Under the red-green government, more has been built every year than in any single year under bourgeois-governed housing policy. We'll be happy about that. We also have investment aid that allows it to be built even in segments where it was not built when there was no housing policy, but allowed the market to govern. These are small rental apartments suitable for young people, for example, who generally have lower incomes than the rest of the housing market. I have not said that those with debts from the 1990s represent the majority of the debts on the housing market. On the other hand, I have said that the financial crises gave rise to a large proportion of the eternal debtors. Let us remember this and not try to solve the problems that exist for entry into the housing market by rolling over the risks to the individual and removing the restrictions that exist to protect the Swedish economy and mortgage holders. Ola Johansson has given examples from other countries. Let us look at what happened in Denmark when, precisely with the motive for giving young people entry into the housing market, the amortisation requirement for mortgages was removed and said that the loans would be graced. There was no increase in the number of young people in the housing market. Instead, housing prices rose sharply, resulting in higher indebtedness. Now Ola Johansson proposes that we do the same in Sweden. I would warn against that; that would be the wrong method.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-417	Madam President, I would like Angelika Bengtsson has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration when we will see the results of the measures that are either to be introduced or have been introduced to combat gang crime in Malmö. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The violence practised by gang criminals is a threat to people's security, to the sense of security in society and, ultimately, to the rule of law and democracy. Meeting this threat is one of the core tasks of the state and is one of the government's top priorities. The police have recently made a collection of forces against gang crime through the national special incident Operation R imfrost. The work is intended to produce results in Malmö as well as in other affected parts of Sweden. The aim of the special event is to reduce shootings and explosions, increase the seizure of weapons and explosives, reduce the number of gang criminals and make the public more secure. Against the backdrop of increased gang violence, the government has developed the largest package against gang crime ever in Sweden. The so-called 34-point programme includes a number of new tools for law enforcement authorities, tougher penalties and strengthened crime prevention. Just a month ago, for example, the government decided on a Council of Law referral on secret data reading that gives the police a very sharp weapon against serious crime. There are also measures that have already been taken and have produced clear results. The government has doubled the minimum penalty for serious weapons offences and gross violation of the authorisation requirement for explosives. As a result of the punitive measures, five times more people could be arrested for serious gun crimes last year, and this trend continues this year as well. The police department also seized over a thousand firearms last year. There's more than 20 guns a week. Another tool that is requested by both the police and the municipalities in the work against gang crime is the possibility of putting up more cameras in the streets and squares. Following a government proposal, the police will be allowed to conduct camera surveillance without permission from the Swedish Data Protection Authority from the end of the year. Most important of all, however, are the historically large investments that are now being made on the Swedish police. The Government's objective is to increase the number of police employees by 10 000 to 2024. In order to achieve the goal, the government has, among other things, extended police training to two new locations. Police training today has a record search print. It will require determination to reverse long-term developments. The government takes very seriously the blasts and shootings that have taken place, and we are determined to gather together to do what is necessary to reverse developments.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-425	Madam President, I would like When I wrote my interpellation, I was frustrated. Once again, my hometown of Malmö was the focus of a death shooting. A young mother was executed in the middle of the day with her child in her arms. Then a 15-year-old was executed, and another 15-year-old was severely injured. Certainly more people have lost their lives as a result of serious crime and shootings, but they are the ones who have received national attention. It was also these events that led the government to finally do something and intervene. I began to engage politically ten years ago precisely because of the criminal issues. I was tired of the violence in Malmö and the development that took place. Things got rougher and rougher, but nothing seemed to happen from the point of view of politics. When you stop reacting to aggravated beatings, stabbings, shootings and rapes, as if they were normal, you also lose confidence in politics. The answers I have received in this debate sound good and look good on paper, but what are they going to produce in real life? Isn't it a little late to react now? I saw problems ten years ago when I was a young girl, 19 years old, and what happens in Malmö just gets rougher and rougher. Public executions are normal in Malmö, and what the government has shown does not seem to yield any results. My first question is: when will we see the results of all the increases in penalties that the government is talking about? When will we see results when it comes to putting the serious criminals who walk freely on the street in Malmö in jail because they have killed someone, perhaps the mother or the 15-year-old we could read about last time? It is a good thing that, after several years of cries and warnings, the penalty scales for multiple crimes are finally being raised. But why has one's head been in the sand for this long? Why don't you do more? And why has not more been done on the political side? It is the government that rules and is responsible for the safety of our streets and squares. It is high time we had this debate today about the increased insecurity in Malmö and the recent shootings. The integration efforts that the government has had over billions of dollars seem to have yielded no results. Why do people continue in the same tracks that they have worked after for many years? How long should you bet on something that doesn't seem to work? And why continue integration projects that do not produce results? I very much hope that this debate will clarify what the government believes should produce results. It is my hope that this will be made clear to us from a political point of view, but also to those who listen and, above all, to all Malmöites who are feared in Malmö today.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-432	Madam President, I would like The insecurity in Malmö is really insecure. I'd like to take a slightly different perspective on that. I'm a 57-year-old old man from Malmö. I've lived there my whole life. I love my city and hope that I can continue to love my city. I live quite centrally in Malmö. I don't live in what is called alienation areas, but around me, very close to me, there are areas that you might call alienation areas. Sometimes they're borderline. I'm going to admit that in the last few years I've been a bit perplexed. Do I want to stay in Malmö? But I do, when I think a little deeper, because that city is so nice and amazing. It is Sweden's third largest city. We are fantastically close to the continent. We should have all the conditions for everything and have a fantastic economy, which we do not have. I'd like to tell the minister a little bit how we feel about it in my family, for real. We sit on a summer night at seven o'clock in the evening. Family's together. The window is open in the house. Suddenly we hear automatic weapons, bang, bang, bang. It's kind of unpleasant, if you say so. I live with my wife and our two daughters. Mostly they react, more than I do, even if I react. What's going on? Yeah, it's a kill shot. It takes under an hour, and then the eldest daughter has found out exactly who has fallen victim. Unfortunately, he died, and some were injured. These experiences are not so nice for a family that wants to stay in Malmö. We have neighbors, and everyone around us has also heard and noticed this. It's not something we're just reading about in the paper. A few weeks later, me and the oldest daughter are sitting up pretty late. It's getting close to midnight. Bang! There's flashing and banging outside. What is it now? Is it war? Let's run out of the house and see what happens. It flashes a little everywhere, and then we walk 50 meters. There's three cars on fire, and then the fire department comes. It was a classic car fire, which there are a lot of in Malmö and in other cities as well. In the square in our vicinity, called Nydala Square, there have been a couple of three executions in the last two years. There's a park on the side. Not this summer, but the summer before they stab one to death there at four o'clock. A mother with a small child was sunbathing in the park, and the child played and discovered the bleeding person who later died. It's a common area actually, a classic area built in the 50's, made for us by the average svenssons, so to speak. That was amazing. We had the classic square and shops, and everything was peace and joy. It was really nice to be there. But something's happened. And it did not happen yesterday and not the day before yesterday, but the situation has escalated for quite a few years. K anske it started already 15 to 20 years ago. When I come home from work in Stockholm I often meet at the door of my wife, who looks at new prospects for housing outside Malmö. I'm not gonna be so happy, so we'll have to have a little debate there and make fun of it and so on. She doesn't want to stay, so the family can be divided. I certainly hope not, at least not because of this. My question to the Minister is: What is your plan to make Malmö completely again?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-441	Madam President, I would like The very gradual and predictable escalation of violence in Malmö in recent years has now reached totally unacceptable levels. It has not crept on cautiously and under the radar in that one can claim that one did not see it coming or blame what has become the government's keyword: I, and many with me, have certainly not been naive. I grew up in Skåne, including Malmö for many years, and have lived in various neighboring municipalities for a large number of years. However, I had quite a break when in 1981 I decided to take a year abroad as an exchange student. Little did I then know that this year would eventually be an adventure of as much as 28 years abroad, before I became a so-called returnee in 2009. To relive old memories, I took Dad's old rusty bike and went out into town to visit all the places I had such fond memories of. It was, to say the least, an almost unpleasant awakening. One of these memories was when in winter I used to go sledding on Holmabackarna with friends who lived in the area. I can say that the cultural crash I felt relatively immediately during my bike ride was rather a shock than just a crash. In some selected areas in Malmö today it does not feel as if you are in Sweden at all. It may be that 28 years is a fairly long period in a person's life, but in a historical perspective, in a societal perspective, it is a very short period. The unbelievably revolutionary changes that my old hometown has undergone in such a short time are striking, to say the least. Today, large parts of Malmö are characterized by foreign dress codes, often women's oppressive ones, and signs that I do not understand or can read. Some squares are like scenes taken from a strange film. As these areas have been transformed in record time from working-class areas – areas with knegare, i.e. ordinary workers – into so-called vulnerable areas, which are now dominated by various immigrant groups, the dependency on benefits has also increased significantly, as have unemployment and violence. During my bicycle tour I questioned which politicians in a few decades could think that this would end well. This cycle tour became a starting point for me into politics. After a few weeks of reading all the parties' platforms and election manifestos, I became a Swedish Democrat, less than 90 days after my return to Sweden after 28 years abroad. There was nothing to be naive about. Reality literally stared me in the face. What I find most worrying now that in six months' time the government is going to break the criminal spiral, as it is said, is the stubborn view that large immigration has absolutely nothing to do with increased crime. Not to dare or be able to acknowledge this fact is not only naive but, in the long term, destructive. It has simply not even been possible to carry out an accurate analysis for underlying reasons. Madam President, I would like Some of Minister Damberg's colleagues have been quite open about the fact that there is obviously no connection between high levels of migration from very foreign cultures and increased crime. So my question is this: is this a position shared not only by the Prime Minister and the party secretary but also by Minister Damberg?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-450	Madam President, I would like First of all: Our time is marked by gang violence with blasts and shootings that create a lot of insecurity around Sweden, not just in Malmö. This is an issue that we certainly take very seriously. As Minister of the Interior, I take responsibility for the programme that we are now delivering with the largest expansion of the police force in modern political history, and we are going to extend the police from almost 30 000 employees to nearly 40 000 employees to 2024. There is no other authority in Sweden undergoing the same transformation. V i has decided that there will be more police officers around Sweden who increase security and create reduced crime. I also support the police's work in Malmö and in Sweden. I would like to stress that Operation R imfrost, which the police have announced, is about breaking the curve for gang violence in Sweden. You start in Malmö, but you will have other efforts around Sweden. And it has been pointed out that it wants to see results of its efforts within six months. It is not I who say this, but it is the Police Authority that says that their offensive strategy against the criminal gangs, starting in Malmö, will have an effect in the next six months. It has been said that you should evaluate this after six months. I think it is important that we now back up the Police Authority and do not say that these are the government's objectives on one or the other – so that we actually say that we are prepared to back up the police in this important work, no matter where this violence takes place. I cannot take away from the Swedish Democrats their image of Malmö. It is quite famous since before, and you have testified about how you view Malmö. I've been to Malmö many times. But I do not live in Malmö but here in the Stockholm area. That's why I have my perspective. I have travelled a lot to Malmö in recent years, and as Minister of the Interior I have travelled a lot there linked to the shootings and blasts that have taken place. I have listened to the police gathering and looking at how the police and local authorities work together to ensure that young people are not drawn into these criminal environments. It is a very purposeful work carried out in Malmö, but now also with national resources that really make a difference. What surprises me a little – but it's not the whole focus of this debate – is that there is a picture of nothing else happening in Malmö and that there are no more pictures of Malmö. I also have as Minister for Enterprise and Innovation the image of Malmö as one of Sweden's growing cities. It is a city that has invested heavily in a modern business community, which has a new university and is developing and creating a lot of new jobs. It is also a picture of Malmö that has been transformed from a traditional industrial city to a service-based society to a much greater extent than before. It's a difficult journey to make for a city. But Malmö has really begun such a reformulated journey as a modern industrial city, not least linked to the university's development. So there are several pictures of Malmö. I am prepared to continue to take responsibility for a policy that gives the police the resources they need, which tightens up some penalties, as we have been talking about, which gives the police new powers to lock up gang criminals and get hold of weapons, and which ensures that customs are given increased resources to ensure that these weapons and explosives do not enter the country. However, I am also prepared to invest in preventive work and ensure that we invest in school, in social services and in labour market measures that put people in work. Nobody benefits from these resources being pulled away, which the Swedish Democrats unfortunately contributed to when the M-KD budget became a reality in Sweden.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-456	Madam President, I would like You can give a bright picture of Malmö, and a lot is happening in Malmö – absolutely. But if I do not dare to go out in Malmö, how can I see it? I am not the only one who has changed the way I live and work in Malmö because the criminal gangs – criminal people – are walking around freely and at any time can shoot anyone. We've seen it in the last few weeks and the last few years. We're behind the police expansion. Of course we need more cops. We have really highlighted this problem for so many years, and we could only rejoice that the problem has finally been recognised that there are not enough police officers. But honestly, are meetings with juice and buns or that you offer vegetarian pizza the right way to go when meeting the criminals in Malmö? Last time it was, a stone's throw from where I grew up and where my parents still live, lots of cars around the Stadium in Malmö. My parents wondered what was happening. It turned out later that it was not Malmö FF that played at the Stadium, but it was a meeting with the criminals. Whatever it was, I'll leave it unsaid. But I think that it is quite the wrong way to go with the criminals and offer them coffee instead of actually locking them up. When will we see more people in prison instead of selling drugs or doing other illegal things in Malmö's streets and squares? Madam President, I would like Sweden, together with Norway and Finland, is one of Europe's most equal countries. There is little difference between these three countries. Yet we have the largest share of shootings among men under the age of 29 in Europe. Isn't this a failure? That's ten times more than in Germany. But the social divides are larger in Germany. Many efforts have been made by the police, not least now with Operation R imfrost. Why have we not been able to see these national efforts in the past? Why have they not listened to us who live in Malmö and seen the development in real life? Come to Malmö! It's not enough just to go down there once in a while. Listen to those of us who live there and feel insecure. As I said, you're moonning about raising the penalty scale. But I want to know again what else to do. And why has this not been done before? Why have the problems been refused to be understood? I believe that all the no-go zones that we have in Sweden are a major part of the problem. How does the government work to get rid of all the no go zones? Again: When will we see the results of all the bets being made? You cannot just stand here as a politician and be responsible for the issues and say that you are doing so much. You also have to have goals with all the bets. When will we see the results? When will I, as a young girl, feel safe in my hometown?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-464	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats have been running Malmö for about 25 years. Much of that time has also been led by the government. Some reactive proposals are now being proposed, as I call it. That is certainly excellent; we are behind the proposals, and we have presented them ourselves many years ago. It is good that you are now picking up the ball, Damberg. But somehow it's like putting a patch on a big wound. That is not where we want to go, but, of course, we want these crimes not to be committed. You have for a long time – you will never get away from that – allowed enormous immigration into our city without knowing how to deal with it. So you didn't have a plan. We have a bridge called the Öresund Bridge, where traffic flows over with illegal weapons. You'll answer that you're going to toughen the gun rules for our hunters. It's not even the same thing! I don't understand it. There are plenty of weapons that are much cheaper than real hunting weapons, which are quite expensive to procure. In Malmö's schools, you let a lot of young people, especially in the outlying areas, fail to attend school and go straight into perhaps enticing crime. On the street next to me there are seven hairdressers who take 50 bucks for a men's haircut – this on a 200 meter long part of the street. I've heard that at least five of them have the same owner. It's not healthy. We have Norra Grängesbergsgatan, where there is a huge amount of black trade at export, import and tyre companies. The newspaper Sydsvenskan has given evidence of this, and it is a billion-dollar sum. My question is: how could you do this to us in Malmö?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-468	Madam President, I would like Representatives from the Social Democratic side also claim to see a link between segregation and increased crime. This is, of course, a welcome insight, as we know that gang crime is in many ways associated with young men with immigrant backgrounds. However, the fact that we cannot analyse back in time from that insight, so we can see where and how this segregation has arisen, surprises me. Of course, segregation originates from levels of immigration which have proved to be far too high to achieve successful integration. More or less all integration projects have ended in one fiasco after another. I imagine that the Social Democrats had, and still have, a great deal of support in many of Malmö's previously mentioned areas – but under a different flag. During the 70s and 80s, they were a fairly record labour party, and today's description is – more appropriate – that they are a contribution party. Could it be in order to protect this now large electoral group that it is insisted that high immigration and increased crime are not connected at all? What may surprise most of all, however, is that according to the Prime Minister's own statement, the result would have been exactly the same if we only put Swedes in these areas and conditions. They had been shootings, gang rapes, gang arrangements, blasts and cold-blooded open-street murders. If I am not mistaken, it was mainly Swedes who lived in these areas during my childhood, although there were Finns, Chileans, Poles, Czechs and other nationalities in the mix. Why was it blown up, murdered and not maimed there? They weren't the most well-off areas in those days either. Does Minister Damberg share the view of the Prime Minister that the results would be identical, i.e. that there are no significant differences between groupings with widely differing attitudes regarding problem-solving, women's views and equality and Swedes who grew up with a completely different value base and a completely different way of working and living?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-473	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would appreciate it if you would stop slandering the Swedish police in this debate. It's been done several times now. First, it describes the police's project to reduce shootings in Malmö as being about juice and buns and dyking with criminals. This shows that you do not know at all how the police in Malmö work purposefully to reduce shootings in Malmö. This is done with an internationally recognised method that has reduced shootings by somewhere 30 – 40 percent in the cities that have applied the method. Secondly, the fact that there are no go zones in Sweden is what Donald Trump says. The police authorities say that Sweden has no no go zones. It's the police who decide whether you go into a residential area or not. Ask the chief of police! He'll say we don't have no go zones. Swedish police go into all residential areas around Sweden. Thirdly, if we are to have a discussion about Malmö alone, which is a little different when it comes to a political debate in the Swedish parliament, and if now the Swedish Democrats want to look at the developments in Malmö – what has happened to the shootings in Malmö during the last three years? Compare the period January to October in the last three years you can see the following: 2017 there were 81 shootings, 2018 there were 64 shootings and 2019 there were 50 shootings. So it's gone from 81 shootings to 50 shootings. I am not happy with this, but I am very happy that the police are making a national power collection aimed at the shootings and blasts in Malmö. I think that is right, and we will back it up. If you are going to describe the development, you must also describe what the police have done right and whether they have moved the positions forward or not. I think Malmö has a far too big problem with both gun violence and blasting, still, and that's why I'm backing up the police and making sure to give them the resources that are needed. But if you want to have a serious discussion about the development in Malmö, it is interesting to at least account for how many shootings have taken place in Malmö in recent years and whether it goes in the right or the wrong direction. I think that the Swedish Democrats really wanted this discussion to discuss their view of Malmö. They want to make Malmö a symbol of violence and gang crime in Sweden, while we have decided to reverse the trend. Integration, if we switch tracks, is not facilitated by this. Integration is not facilitated by saving money in the state budget and giving less money to the municipalities that have the greatest problems with segregation in Sweden – those who need more money for school, social services and efforts to capture young people. Perhaps that was not where the saving requirements in the budget that the Swedish Democrats had the opportunity to influence were to be laid. Not making sufficient efforts for language learning and not making sufficient efforts for women in the labour market does not facilitate. To still open up to religious schools, which is a deeply segregated issue in Swedish society, does not facilitate the work of integration. I believe that these are issues such as changing EBO legislation, investing in schools, increasing the resources of schools with the greatest problems and making long-term investments in the municipalities with the greatest social challenges. It is also a question of ensuring that there are labour market measures so that people do not end up in welfare dependency and are forced to go to work instead. This is clearly a much better policy, but you in the SD have so far – in your draft budgets – chosen to reduce precisely these efforts. It does not help Malmö, which has these challenges today.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-480	Madam President, I would like I have this debate because I really want to highlight the problems created by the Social Democrats at national level and also in Malmö. I can almost guarantee that 20 years ago we did not have 50 shootings per year, but here is Damberg in the Swedish Parliament and is satisfied with that figure, because it is going down. There are 50 shootings this year only in Malmö, and Minister Damberg is pleased with that. I would therefore like to invite Minister Damberg to Seved. Get there when the darkness has settled and try to visit that neighborhood! Even plumbers don't come in without police protection. Then it is said that I say that the police are dwindling in their work because they offer juice and bun. But if we do not see any results after these meetings in Malmö, although it is a so-called internationally recognized method to work after, it is something that does not work here in Sweden and specifically in Malmö, because we still have 50 shootings every year. I agree that we need to do more at school. The Swedish Democrats spend half a billion more than the government on school and education. In my Malmö, criminal gangs have taken over stores in central parts of the city. In my Malmö we have open drug trade. In my Malmö we have executions on open street, in broad daylight. Serious crimes are getting worse. This is my reality today. I hope it will look completely different in 20 years' time.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-486	Madam President, I would like We take the gang violence very seriously. I take responsibility for what we do now. We're expanding the police with 10,000 more employees. On Monday, 39 new police officers – I think it was – started working only in Malmö. Over 100 new police officers started in the South Region. This is the greatest security effort we have made in modern times, and I take responsibility for it. I also take responsibility for tightening up penalties and for giving the police the tools needed to break down the criminal gangs. But I am careful to say that in order to succeed in this, Malmö and other municipalities must also be given the resources to work with the preventive efforts so that school, social services, housing policy and the labour market work – otherwise we will not succeed in this. One thing I am very careful to say: In our Sweden Malmö will never stand alone. We will help with national resources when necessary. When the police in Malmö have done a good job and in a few years have reduced the number of shootings from – what was it now – 81 to 50 during the first months of the year, they should be commended for that work. They will have support for it, because we will continue along that path and reduce the number of shootings in Sweden. But then you can't just stand and say that the police have no go zones and that the police valley with the criminals and offer juice and buns when they demonstrably cage criminals and ensure that the number of shootings also decreases in Malmö. This work is long-term. It is hard and heavy, but we will push back the gang-criminal violence in Sweden. I hope that there will be broad political agreement on this work in the Swedish Parliament.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-492	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to direct police resources to the fight against crime on our roads, thereby increasing the safety of professional drivers. Sweden should be a safe country to live in for everyone. Combating crime and increasing security in society is one of the government's top priorities. Many efforts are being made in this area, and central is the historically large investments that are now being made on the Swedish police. The Government's objective is to increase the number of police employees by 10 000 to 2024. From the start of growth on 1 January 2016 to September 2019, the number has increased by just over 2,000. This is a welcome development, and in the long term this will make a big difference for a stronger society and a safer Sweden. In the interpellation, Thomas Morell refers to the 100 million awarded to the police in what he calls the cabotage million. These funds were allocated to the Police Authority in 2017 and are intended to be used for four years. The Agency's road safety work shall contribute to reducing the number of fatalities and serious injuries in the road traffic environment in accordance with the zero vision. The funds are intended to develop controls on cabotage and flying inspections of commercial vehicles and to ensure that efforts in these areas are improved. It is the authority that decides how the funds are to be used. The assignment shall be reported in the annual report for 2020. The Police Authority works together with the Swedish Transport Administration in a number of areas, for example by upgrading the control sites that the Swedish Transport Administration is responsible for. This year, the Police Authority has reported, among other things, an educational effort regarding international traffic, including cabotage. The operation involved nearly 400 police officers and car inspectors. As a result, the number of cases reported to the Swedish Transport Agency regarding fines in illegal cabotage has increased significantly, from 65 cases in 2017 to 221 cases in 2018. Safety at rest places affects many actors, and it is gratifying that Sweden's Åkeri companies recently organised a conference on this. This included representatives of the Police Authority and the Finnish Transport Agency. Stakeholders will continue to work on issues related to safe resting places for professional traffic and how organised crime can be combated. Combating crime requires, among other things, a strong judiciary, effective criminal law legislation and an accessible police force. One of the government's priorities is therefore to continue efforts to strengthen police work. At the same time, we are also strengthening the other parts of the legal chain. All in all, we give the judiciary better opportunities to increase security and to combat all forms of crime, no matter who it is directed against.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-497	Madam President, I would like I must thank Minister Mikael Damberg for his answer. I have to say that I am not very happy, but that may not have been expected either. On Wednesday, almost a week ago, a driver drove a tow truck between Härryda and Lerum. He got a misindication in his car, so he drove into a rest area to see what was wrong. When he came in, he saw an overseas registered white passenger car standing by the side. He drove in there, stopped and went out to see what was wrong with the car. Then he was beaten from behind, beaten to unconscious hot and robbed. The perpetrator – or the perpetrators – also picked up equipment from the tow truck. The driver ended up in the hospital. Last Friday I talked to the driver's employer about how this had happened. The employer then told us that the driver was home from the hospital. Of course, he was unwell and still had injuries. This, then, is a driver who has experienced the increasing violence on our roads. The reason I put this interpellation was precisely the conference that the Government mentioned. There it emerged – and it is the government itself that has ordered this investigation – that 70 percent of the country's drivers feel insecure at rest places. If we turn this 70% into Parliament – it may be a little interesting – 244 Members of this House would be worried about being subjected to crime. If we start on the far bench here in the Chamber, we land somewhere in the southern constituency of Västra Götaland County. We also know that 43% of drivers have been subjected to a crime – that is, to an actual act. That is equivalent to 150 Members, and then we will end up in the constituency of Kronoberg in this Chamber. Then we understand how many there are who are concerned and who have actually been subjected to a crime at their workplace. There would be quite a lot of people in this House if we were to turn it into the people who are in here. It's no use knocking this driver on your shoulder and saying, "You can take it easy – the government has set up an investigation to report in March 2021 to see how to organize the traffic police. ..................................................... I would first like to say that I think it is a good thing that this investigation is being carried out to see where we should have this control activity. Should it remain with the police, or should it have its own authority? But we can't let it decay in the meantime. The government often says you bet on the police, and you do. Now I have a close relationship with the police. I've been employed myself, so I've been on the payroll there for 12 years. I noted that a member of the Police Association yesterday said that the number of police officers in the country has decreased by almost 470 compared to 2015, when more police officers are leaving than they have managed to recruit, and that the number of police officers in the region mine has decreased by 60 so far this year. I can look back at my own workplace at the traffic police in Skara. That's where we had three lucky teams of nine men in each of them who worked in external service, plus we had a staff inside. Today there are a total of five people, and there is no staff inside. Of course you can't do the job then.
i-RNMkoWadhQD18vPdYcGHoT	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for an important interpellation! The whole transport sector has been a little overtaken and not focused on for quite a few years. It has become a little wild west in large parts. Now I am thinking of other parts of this issue, where we have seen how regulations have been broken, that the law has not been upheld and that there has been a huge underbender competition that is not fair. As a result, competition on the roads has not been on a level playing field. We have therefore taken several steps to put the roads in order and will continue to do so. It is an important part of the fact that even those who work on the roads can feel safe in their employment and in the work they do. This is one of the sectors most exposed to unfair competition, I mean. As you know, we have decided on new cabotage rules, fines, clapping, alcohol duties and requirements for new studded tyres. We have therefore taken several steps, but more will have to be done to get things right in that part. I don't want to wave away what's said about the police having too little resources in this area. I travel every week in Sweden and see how police officers today are forced to make unreasonable values of what they should prioritise in their operations. Although there are thousands more police employees today than in 2016, almost all are civilians. There is hardly an extra police officer, as it takes two and a half years to train a police officer. It is only now, from Monday onwards, that 546 police officers are being recruited. We expect about 1 100 new police officers to be employed in Sweden this year. I think that's going to be more than the ones who quit-- we'll see when we sum up the year. And there are fewer cops dropping out today than last year. We are in a positive development. But this is gonna take some time. I do not want to wave away the problem that this may not have always been the most priority work. As the police grow, you also need to think about how to organise this activity in the best possible way. That is why it is good that we are looking at this. I think that the conference, which I myself did not participate in, was good, because there were several actors there. For example, the Finnish Transport Agency must also consider what their responsibility is when arranging such places. How do you build them, and how do you work with lighting? One question that was raised was whether to work with cameras to a greater extent. These are important issues. I will take responsibility for the fact that the police are an active party to these forums. I have also listened to the chief police officer, who says that he sees road checks as one of the issues that is becoming increasingly important. I do not have statistics on this, but I would guess that some of the robberies in the crime-prone places are committed by international crime networks, by gangs who come to Sweden to commit various types of robbery in the transport sector. We have now assigned three different authorities to work together to help at the border and stop those who do not have the right to enter, but also to work with intelligence to hit these leagues in a much smarter way than before. One of the priorities when the Police Authority is growing is to work more against the international theft leagues that create a lot of trouble, not only in the transport sector but also in the rural areas around Sweden.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-520	Madam President, I would like When I wrote the interpellation, the foundation was that at the conference I heard how many drivers were worried at their workplace and who are victims of crime. When I first wrote a question to the Government, I received an answer that irritated me. You responded with the cabotage million. The police department has received 100 million, but the agency can only account for 2.6 million. The other money is gone in business, but it hasn't come out a bit along the way. That's one of them. The second answer was that the police's control points are being surveyed. That is, of course, a good thing, but it is not there that drivers feel threatened. They may possibly feel robbed if the police have given them a fine. But at least it's not about criminals here. The police have been able to account for 2.6 million of the 100 million earmarked for cabotage. There the cases have increased from 65 to 221, a huge increase, but we are talking about bread crumbs in general. The Government now said in its speech that it is important to access the criminal networks. And imagine that's something I've been going on about since 2010! In 2012, the police in Västra Götaland produced a report that showed the link between illegal professional traffic on our roads and other criminal activities. The police could demonstrate that they are creating economic conditions for investing in other criminal activities, just as we heard in the previous debate on shootings in Malmö. Where do criminals get their financial muscle? Yeah, they'll get out on the road. That is where they create the economic forces to invest in other criminal activities. The worst type of crime we saw in England, where 39 people died in a refrigerator container. You don't care about human life. Now I do not know if the figure is correct, but I read somewhere that each of the people who was in the container had had to pay 500 000 kroner for the trip. It was a one-way ticket to death. This is how criminals create their economic muscles. Our society is not equipped to face and push them back, and it has these effects. All criminals use the road as their place of work. It creates the conditions for entering logistics systems, it uses the way of its own logistics, it drives in contraband – drugs, weapons, explosives and people – and it uses the way to take out stolen goods. We have been discussing this for so many years and have been able to show in reports, but nothing has happened. Yes, it has. My old colleagues are falling in number. If we're going to talk about the number of feet on the road, it's barely 200, if you include the active traffic police and car inspectors going out on the road. And everyone who has been managers in different businesses knows that not so many go out every day. Some are shift workers, some are sick and some are on parental leave, so you don't have all day. Here there needs to be a lot of effort to make the business work and in some way slow down the activities of criminals and their ability to create economic muscles. There the government has a responsibility. I am a little curious about the Government's response to this.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-529	Madam President, I would like If we are to deal with the crime on the roads, this sector needs to be cleaned up. There's got to be a law on the road. There must be collective agreements on the roads. Otherwise, we'll have a shady structure that contributes to crime. We have done an incredible amount of work to get the roads in order, and we will continue to do so in Sweden but also in Europe, where the regulations need to be tightened up. One part is about how we get the roads in order, because it reduces the space for criminal gangs to use the roads – as you say, Thomas Morell – as an infrastructure for their crime. The second part is about how we stop things at the border. Here we are working hard now with customs, which has received increased resources three years in a row to not least stop the smuggling that you were in on. I think that customs this year is investing in hiring 100 more people who will be at the borders around Sweden, which is good. We have given three authorities, including customs and police, the task of working together against the international theft leagues with intelligence-based information about at which times and from which countries criminal gangs come to Sweden to commit crimes. That work is becoming more effective today. There will be more to be done. At the beginning of the year, in February or March, the three authorities will report a report on how the cooperation has worked and what they see is the next step in that work. Then there are the parking places, where I think many who sleep over are worried. The Finnish Transport Agency has invited several to a discussion. As I understand it, they are now in the process of some kind of current situation and needs analysis that will land in a strategic plan. There, as I understand it, one should look at security issues and discuss, among other things, whether cameras can be an important tool to create security but also facilitate prosecution and investigation work for the police. So I feel that some are on the go. Finally, as far as the police organization is concerned, I agree that it has not yet grown above Sweden. This is where the growth of police will take place. So far, it's been civil servants. I also hear the chief of police say that he wants to see more policemen on the road doing checks. He also talks about the wider review of how responsibilities are to be shared in the longer term. I am not saying all this to show that everything is good today, but I am saying that a great deal is being done and that there is a focus on the issues. I hope Thomas Morell can continue to be involved in these important issues, because I think that is necessary. We need more order on the roads. It would also provide more security on the roads.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-536	Let me remind you that all the speakers speak through the President.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-537	Madam President, I would like Let me go back to the driver who had that incident between Härryda and Lerum. He will be affected by this for many years, perhaps for life. He'll always have a look back and see what's there. He will never dare turn his back on anything anymore. This is a concern. I talk a lot to drivers out there who are worried. They don't feel safe, and they lack the presence of the police. You may think what you want about police officers when you sit in front of a policeman after driving too long and maybe get a cure for this, but however it is, a police presence creates a security. You know that you have an authority that can help you if something happens. I stopped at the traffic police on December 1, 2007. It's been a few years since then. During these years I've been in police control seven times, which is a lot. Five of these times I've been looking for them myself. I've first called and asked where they are. Twice I've been stopped when they've had an activity to blow. They have such occasions once a year. But otherwise you don't see them. On vacation you can go and maybe only see one police car. It may then be a police officer and not a traffic police officer. This is the big concern for the whole industry. Here the state must restore the traffic police, for it is soon a thing of the past. The government has a huge job ahead of it. It takes time to train such staff. You have to be able to work and use the toolbox when something happens out there.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-541	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for an important interpellation about order and order on the roads! Above all, it is about the safety of those who work on the roads. We will continue to work on this issue. The most important responsibility I have as Minister of Home Affairs is to ensure that the police continue to grow, so that we get more. There is also a need for more blue-clad police officers throughout Sweden, not just civilian employees. We are well on our way, but much work remains to be done before we reach the 10,000 more employees. However, I will not determine exactly where and with what tasks the police work. I will let the chief of police decide that, because I think he is more knowledgeable and better suited to this than the Swedish government being in charge here. However, I have heard the chief of police talk a lot about traffic several times. He sees that today traffic controllers are being used for criminal activities, and he himself feels that this is an area that has had to stand back in the many years when police officers have been declining and have had great and difficult trade-offs to make. With the power that we are now making for ways and order, I think we will see a difference. However, it also requires good cooperation between the Finnish Transport Agency, the police and the hauliers so that this is taken seriously and taken as an important work environment issue for the country's hauliers.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-545	Madam President, I would like Robert Stenkvist has asked me, in general terms, what I think about teachers turning their teaching towards their own political preferences in a significant way, and whether I believe that amendments to the School Act, for example, are needed to clarify objectivity and impartiality and, if possible, to reduce infringements in our educational institutions. Robert Stenkvist has also asked me whether I believe that there is a need for clearer and more powerful consequences for teachers who may repeatedly be in flagrant breach of objectivity and impartiality. I would like to start by saying that, as a minister, I cannot comment on the allegations of an individual teacher mentioned by Robert Stenkvist in his interpellation. The government's and my self-evident view is that all teachers should observe the requirement of objectivity and comprehensiveness in teaching. The importance of objectivity and objectivity was also underlined in the bill Political information in school (prop. 2017/ 18:17), as decided by the Riksdag in autumn 2018. Provisions on the grounds of government and fundamental rights and freedoms, which can be said to be the foundation of our constitution, are in the form of government. According to chapter one. Section 2, fourth paragraph, the form of government must act in general to ensure that democracy's ideas become guiding principles in all areas of society. Schools and school staff shall take into account the principle of objectivity in the form of government, which implies an obligation to respect the objectivity and impartiality of activities. The school also has an important democratic mission, which is regulated both in the School Act (2010:800) and in the school curriculum. The training will also be based on scientific basis and proven experience. A teacher is responsible for the teaching he or she conducts and must ensure that the teaching is objective and comprehensive. The Vice-Chancellor leads and coordinates the educational work at a school and is responsible for the development of the education. If a teacher does not follow the school's policy documents, there should be consequences. In the first place, it is up to the employer to take action under labour law. The State's school inspection oversees the school system, and this responsibility includes verifying that the education complies with the provisions of the School Act and other regulations governing the activities. Furthermore, the Teachers' Responsibilities Board examines whether teachers who misbehaved should receive a warning or get rid of their IDs. The trial will take place after the Swedish School Inspectorate has filed a report. A qualified teacher may receive a warning if he or she has been ill-advised in the course of his or her professional activity or in the course of his or her professional activity has committed a criminal offence which makes the fitness to act as a teacher questionable or in any other way less appropriate to teach. For example, if the teacher has been grossly illiterate in his professional practice, committed a serious crime or in some other way proved particularly unfit to teach, the teacher's ID may be withdrawn. In terms of objectivity and impartiality, the regulation is clear and I see no need to make any changes to the Education Act or other regulations.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-553	Madam President, I would like This is the second time that Minister Ekström and I have debated the same subject. The reason is not to waste our time, but because I was not really satisfied last time. This is a recurring problem which, in fact, I think needs to be addressed. First of all, Madam President, I would like to respond more directly to the Government's response. Of course, a minister should not go into individual cases, but I thought I had to mention in my interpellation an example that shows how this undemocratic evil is happening – evidence, quite simply. Madam President, I would like In Minister Ekström's written answer, it says the following: That's great. I do not remember receiving an equally clear answer the last time I asked an interpellation about this. I think this is a good answer. In addition, Madam President, Minister Ekström says that schools and school staff should take into account the principle of objectivity in the form of government, which includes an obligation to observe objectivity and impartiality in their activities. Thank you, Minister Ekström. This is exactly what I wanted to hear. If the Government had said this last time, we might even have been able to skip this interpellation altogether. But then there is the problem with teachers who violate the law still continuing. Hence my question as to whether clarifications need to be made in, for example, the School Act. I'll talk about the background to my repeated interpellation. After we talked at the last time about this, a very serious case in a high school in Karlskrona has been noted. It was a case where a teacher presented three parties, not just the Swedish Democrats, as directly undemocratic. In addition, the teacher had made his own teaching material, screened by an upset parent. So here we are black and white that a teacher engages in pure party politics in teaching time. We're not going into this particular case too much. We're not supposed to deal with individual cases here. Nevertheless, this is a concrete and clear example of the existence of a problem. It is a problem that we should not sweep under the carpet, I think – hence my question to the Government. If cases of lack of impartiality continue to drip in, can there not, in the end, be a question of the government taking action on this? I also have a general reflection. If we think it's okay with political influence from the left, it must be equally okay with political influence from the opposite direction. For example, a Swedish democratic teacher must be allowed to express his views in exactly the same way. But I don't think it should be that way in any direction. Now it seems that the faculty leans a little to the left overall, but it may not last forever. It may also be that teachers from the right are better at distinguishing between teaching and private opinion.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-562	Madam President, I would like Robert Stenkvist rightly says that this is the second time that a question of the same kind has been asked. The honourable Member also says that he was not quite satisfied last time. This time he says the answer is great. My memory may fail me, but if I remember the previous interpellation debate with Robert Stenkvist right, he was in favour of my answer and said it was very good. Let me hope that we can skip having a similar interpellation debate one more time. But I may have misremembered – it may have been some other interpellation debate where Robert Stenkvist paid tribute to my answer. I still find it difficult to answer the question put by Robert Stenkvist. Robert Stenkvist rightly says that we should not discuss individual cases here in Parliament's pulpit. Then he continues to discuss a number of individual cases. I can just as little say now as in the interpellation response about the claims made by Robert Stenkvist. There is, as I have explained, an established order for dealing with cases where it is considered that teachers have committed errors in their professional activities. That order is clear. It is established by the Riksdag, and it is open and accessible. With that, I will end this part of my reply and await what Robert Stenkvist has to say, because there is not so much more I can add to what has already been submitted.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-566	Madam President, I would like I cannot remember that what I quoted would have been in the previous interpellation response, but I think it is crystal clear. My wish is that it would be as clear to the country's teachers and principals. But it turns out time and again that it's not. That is why I am standing here for an interpellation debate on this. There are a lot of reports of teachers who can't do this with impartiality. It happens mainly in the election movement, but reports come all the time. I hear about children coming home crying because their parents are Swedish democrats and the teachers have said that they are terrible and are going to exterminate people and all sorts of things. These kids are fucked up. I've heard many such stories. That's why I'm interrogating about this. Madam President, I would like What Minister Ekström has said and which I quote is excellent. But it doesn't seem to go into the head really all the teachers here in Sweden. I therefore believe that there must be clarification in some policy document, preferably in the School Act. We have a problem. It's not working here. I fully agree with Minister Ekström about what I quoted. It's perfect. That's how I want it. But the problem is, there are teachers who don't get this. A government and a minister cannot act because there are occasional problems here and there, but if there is a recurring problem, it must eventually become a responsibility for government and ministers, I believe. I'm tired of hearing these stories about parents bringing home crying despaired children because the teacher has painted out Swedish democrats and sometimes even Moderates and Christian Democrats as terrible. What is said has nothing to do with reality or our policy. We seem inhuman. This is what teachers say in the country's classroom. Madam President, I would like I think this is more common than what Minister Ekström thinks. How common it is for natural reasons I have no exact track of. But we simply have a problem. Of course, the government should not take my word for it, Madam President. But perhaps, in a first step, an examination can be made of the situation.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-571	Madam President, I would like I have a very happy message for Robert Stenkvist. Robert Stenkvist talks about teachers who express themselves in such a way that children come home and cry. If this happens, in the event of such maladministration, I would like to stress very strongly that it is, of course, a problem. The good news in this context is that the legislation that Robert Stenkvist himself has now reviewed in such very positive terms from the speaker's chair is accompanied by a proper step of action. There are clear rules on how to behave when you think that teachers do not do as they should. You're supposed to go to the principal. You can turn to the head of the school. You can turn to the School Inspectorate. The School Inspectorate has the opportunity to address the matter in several different ways, including by taking the whole matter to the Teachers' Responsibilities Board. This step-up is there for the letter of the law to become a reality. That's the way to go if you're unhappy with how teachers behave. It is gratifying that Robert Stenkvist thinks that the legislation is well-designed and well formulated. I can only call on anyone who sees it as being ill-behaved by teachers towards children to use the tools provided by legislation: to turn to the principal, to the principal and, ultimately, to the State's school inspection.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-575	Madam President, I would like As I have said before, I do not think that legislation is wrong. I'd be really happy if it was just followed. In committee today, we discussed the quality of the principals, so to speak, somewhat uneven. It wasn't exactly expressed, but between the lines. The headmaster of the school in the example I mentioned, I've called back. She didn't seem to understand the problem. Then I'll be a little positive. A partymate of mine called the school manager in the county. He took this seriously and seemed to grasp the problem. But the principal did not seem to understand the problem at all, although there was evidence. That is why I am addressing this particular case – to exemplify the problem itself, although we cannot address individual problems. I think we have a problem. In time, I think the government has to deal with this, check what it looks like, check these cases. I've heard many times that crying children come home. Maybe someone's lying. But all the stories I've heard about this can't be a lie. It's highly unlikely. I hope that in time the Government and Minister Ekström will tackle this problem, Madam President, and at least look into the situation.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-579	Madam President, I would like There are, of course, clear rules in the rule of law, as it does in this case. There is also a clear system that is identified in legislation and regulations that shows how to behave if you think that the rules have not been complied with. I think that order should be followed. It is considerably better than if the government were to be responsible for investigating or making statements on individual cases, for example. With that, I'll have to thank you for the interpellation.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-580	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me when I intend to begin to assume my responsibilities with regard to the initiatives in the school Digit Plan on the table of the Ministry of Education. The focus in school should be on knowledge and education. All students have the right to education based on the entire curriculum. Digital tools are an important part of teaching, not least in the subjects of mathematics and technology. Therefore, the Government has decided on changes in the policy documents for primary and secondary schools, among other things, so that digital tools are part of the content of the curriculum course and subject plans since July 2018. The state's school inspection has carried out a review of how some schools work with digital tools in secondary education. The review shows that it looks very different in different classrooms. This gives an indication of the problems of equivalence that exist in Swedish schools. Therefore, the Government considers that the State should continue to take responsibility for strengthening digital equivalence in schools. The digitalization of the school system is in full swing. You the Italianisation of the school involves both opportunities and risks. Digital tools can develop teaching and facilitate teachers' work environment. It is the responsibility of the authorities to ensure that teachers and other staff receive the skills they need to carry out their mission so that they can make the best use of digital tools in teaching. To chart a direction and strengthen equivalence, the Government decided in 2017 on a national digitalisation strategy for the school system. The Government then concluded an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, which developed an action plan to implement the digitalisation strategy. The Action Plan includes a mapping of ongoing actions and activities as well as of overall needs within the school system. It shows SKL's assessment of what different actors need to do to meet target one in the strategy. The Government agrees with SKL that many actors need to contribute to the digitisation of the school system. However, the Action Plan is not a step-by-step instruction for the individual principal or the school. In order to realise the vision of the strategy, development work needs to be done at all levels, not least at regional and local level. A key factor is the integration of digitalisation into systematic quality work. The Government has commissioned S tatens coalworks to promote digitalisation within the school system and to facilitate schools and principals to seize the opportunities of digitalisation in education and administration. The work will be based on the national digitisation strategy for the school system. The work also includes monitoring the objectives of the national digitisation strategy and its impact in the activities. Within the framework of this assignment, the Swedish National Agency for Education has developed, published and implemented several initiatives and activities that correspond to the focus areas of the digitalisation strategy.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-586	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. The Government aims to make Sweden the best in the world in digitalisation and to use digital tools in general in society. It's binding. It also requires that we have an education system that gives everyone digital competence and understanding of how digital tools work and how they can be used. In many other countries, efforts have been made to ensure that all schools and pupils have access to digital tools. Several of our neighbours also measure digital competence in national tests. The EU also has digital skills as one of the key competences for the future competitiveness and development of the EU. The government has decided on a digital strategy for the school. The Swedish National Agency for Education has done some things to make it easier for schools and principals to take advantage of the opportunities of digitalisation. But it is quite obvious that it is not enough. The school inspectorate has made a review that shows it quite clearly, and then you have looked at a rather limited part. They have looked at math and technology in grades 7 - 9. What has been found frightfully. It is 59% who use digital technology to a small extent. It ‐ strategies of principals are not concrete and are not used at 83% of schools. It is 78 percent who do not meet the requirements for the use of digital technology available in grades 7 to 9. Schools have access to IT-technical support but not to IT-pedagogic support. If we are serious about the school actually exploiting the opportunities of digitalisation, we need measures and clearer governance. SKL has developed a school Digit Plan after dialogue with the government, as the Minister for Education also says in his reply. But it needs to be realized. You need to get to grips with the points that are in the plan. One can also consider that the association of Free Schools was not involved in the discussion with SKL, since a total of 15 per cent of students attend independent schools. The school didi plan contains many important steps for the strategy that the government has decided on to become a reality. A number of points require action from the government. There's 13 of them. This includes strengthening coordination through the Swedish National Agency for Education with support for procurement and further training, for example. There is a need for an agreement between SKL and the Government and the National Association of Free Schools on the development of digitalisation in schools, the financing of training efforts and, not least, teacher training. It's about how they live up to changing curricula. In the plan there is a need to change teacher training. It is also a question of simplifying the transmission of information and standards. Madam President, I would like It's easy to come up with a strategy. But it is not worth the paper it is written on if it does not lead to concrete action. When does the government intend to address the points contained in the school digital plan?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-596	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by fully agreeing with Maria Stockhaus on the very last. It is easy to write points on a paper but much harder to make them become reality. A clear example of this is the review that the Swedish School Inspectorate has made of how the work is done. We are in a situation where Swedish schools have been digitised quite strongly for a number of years. We also have many years behind us where very little was done. It is easy to write and prescribe how to do it and much harder to make it happen. What is it that Sweden's teachers themselves say that they need to be able to exploit the full potential of digitalisation? One important thing that keeps coming back in the evaluations that are being carried out is the need for teachers to develop their skills. Here the government has ensured that the Swedish National Agency for Education has the opportunity to work with sustainable support for the country's schools, a school development programme. We have a number of national school development programmes. One of them is focused on digitalisation and ensures that our schools have good opportunities to further develop teachers' skills. This applies, for example, to programming, which is a subject area that is new in our curricula. There, very many teachers had a great need to quickly understand a new subject area. It is also about digital tools. That is exactly what Maria Stockhaus raised in her speech that the Swedish School Inspectorate had had views on. It is also about information searching and source criticism online. It is a subject area that is becoming increasingly important at a time when facts and opinions are mixed up in the debate. Thanks to the national school development programmes and the fact that the National Agency for Education has the opportunity to work hard and year by year to provide support for schools and teachers, there is now much better support available than there was just a few years ago. I would also like to point out the great work that is being done to ensure that we are able to move to national tests that are carried out, developed and managed in a digital way. This is a very big job, and the Swedish National Agency for Education is fully working. Only a few weeks ago, clarification was authorised to provide regulations on national tests, participation and technical requirements for the principals. It is a major task for the National Agency for Education, but above all for the principals, to ensure that digital tests can be carried out in a legally secure and equivalent manner. Everyone who has been to a workplace knows how dependent you are that the network does not go down. It has to work when the digital exams are written, and there is a lot left to do out there with many principals. Madam President, I would like Much is being done in this area. I know from a long time ago that Maria Stockhaus is very impatient, and I know that she was impatient even during the time of the Alliance Government with regard to the successes or lack of success of that time with regard to the digitisation of the school. In answer to Maria Stockhaus's question, I have to leave the somewhat boring ministerial response that preparation is ongoing in the Government Office. We have received the school digital plan from SKL and are working to take care of the proposals. We will come back to how we proceed with them.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-606	Madam President, I would like As the Minister of Education mentioned, there is a deadline 2022 for when national tests are supposed to be done digitally. Now there are signs coming from the school authorities that that timetable will not last. The municipalities simply do not have the infrastructure in place to carry out the mission. This interpellation is about digital equivalence. There are already municipalities where students do many of their tests digitally. Given that Sweden is one of the world's most digitised countries, it is difficult to accept that in 2022 we could not do our national tests digitally. It takes tougher governance towards the principals for this to become a reality. The national tests are, in fact, the only part of the strategy and of what has to do with the digitisation of schools that is timed. In the strategy proposed by the Swedish National Agency for Education there was a timeframe, at least for when the infrastructure would be in place at all schools. This was very clear to the principals. Now it's not nearly as clear. When should the strategy really be a reality? When will schools be able to use digital tools in full? As things stand, there are municipalities and schools that are withdrawing, where digital tools are a matter of course and teachers know when and how to use them. In some schools there is nothing at all. There may be some computers or tablets, but teachers have no competence in how to use them. Sometimes the infrastructure doesn't work. Then you don't dare use them because you're afraid it'll go down. Or it takes half the lesson before all the students are logged in. For a government that claims to safeguard equivalence, as this government does, this should be troublesome and a matter of high priority. Parents who are doing well make sure that there are digital tools at home so that children have the opportunity to do both schoolwork and other things on them and to learn to use digital technology as a natural tool in everyday life. In other families, usually in the worse off, it is not nearly as obvious that there is. In municipalities where they have introduced what is called one-to-one and made sure that the students also have the opportunity to bring the computer or tablet home, for some families it has been the computer that the family has access to. All students deserve to go to a school that is part of society around them, where the opportunities of digitalisation are exploited and where students get the digital skills that working life will require them to have. There is a list of necessary measures. As it looks right now in our municipalities, it is very different. In some places it works great, in others it doesn't. I find this remarkable. The answer that you are preparing the question is boring. It's urgent. Many municipalities and schools are withdrawing, and many students are currently not getting what they are entitled to according to our governance documents. How does the Minister of Education view this with timeframes when it comes to putting pressure on the principals? It was included in the Swedish National Agency for Education's original strategy but was then removed when the proposal was prepared in the Government Office.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-614	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus calls for tougher control of the principals. I would like to remind you that just a few weeks ago the National Agency for Education received a new authorisation from the government. This was a response to a request from the National Board of Education. It stated that a somewhat tougher mandate was needed in order to be able to request certain technical infrastructure and technical solutions from the principals. I am very keen that the digitalisation that we are now working with in the Swedish school will support the students' knowledge development. I am keen that it should be equal – that which home you were born in or which school you go to should not play any role in how much you learn when it comes to using digital tools and how much you learn in important subjects such as source criticism or programming. Yes, Maria Stockhaus, we're behind. When I look at Sweden and, above all, participation in national tests, I see that, in comparison with other European and Nordic countries and countries on the other side of the Atlantic, we are well ahead in terms of access to technical infrastructure and the needs of working life for digitally skilled people. We have a large export industry and export both products and services, which depends on our having good knowledge of programming and competence in terms of system knowledge and the like. But we digitalize our national tests later than they do in many other countries. As I find it boring with politicians standing and blaming their representatives, I can only say that it is a fact that we have started later than others. Now that we have started later than other countries with the necessary digitisation of the national tests, we will do it in such a way that they can be carried out in an equivalent way. I will ensure that the National Agency for Education is given the mandate and the tools they need, and I will be very keen to follow the work very closely so that it is done in a legally secure and equivalent way. I have my own experience of how it works when authorities and principals get a little too tight time frames. In the end, it always costs the students and the hardworking teachers and principals of Swedish schools when reforms are implemented with insufficient timeframes. For me, it is more important that this is done correctly and correctly than that it is done quickly. At the same time, the National Agency for Education has a mission, and I will follow that to ensure that it is done wisely.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-620	Madam President, I would like There are quite a few examples of opportunities when it comes to the digitisation of schools. There are already AI solutions that can identify students who are at risk of difficulties with reading and writing learning and possibly have a diagnosis of dyslexia. This is already used in a number of municipalities that have the infrastructure in place, unlike a lot of municipalities where the infrastructure does not work in such a way that it can be used. Today there are digital learning materials that facilitate individualization and enable students to take in knowledge via text, read-up materials and film, among other things. Research shows that boys in particular benefit from the opportunities offered by access to digital tools. Digital skills are important, and it is difficult to get them if you do not have access to digital tools in school. The tools themselves will never bring about any change; this too shows research quite clearly. They can even make the results worse if the infrastructure does not work, of course, but above all if there is not a competent teacher in the classroom, who, in addition to being a skilled teacher, also knows how these tools are used properly. That's where the teacher training comes in. One of the points that SKL has raised as very important in the school digital plan is that the newly graduated teachers who come out of our teacher trainings actually have digital competence linked to the educational mission. There are universities, such as Linnéuniversitetet, that have begun a development in getting digitization into teacher education, but it doesn't look like that everywhere. Principals who receive new-exed teachers testify that they rarely have enough digital skills to work in a classroom where the infrastructure is in place. When will the government address the issue of digitalisation in teacher education?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-625	Madam President, I would like I will limit my response to what falls within my remit. That does not belong to teacher training. Maria Stockhaus' speech cannot be interpreted in any other way than that she is pleased that the government is finally addressing the issue of digitalisation after a long period when very little happened. It is good that we do so, but as Minister of Education I will take responsibility for ensuring that the school's digitalisation and what is at the forefront and at the moment is the most topical, the digitisation of the important national tests, can be carried out in such a way that it is both equal and legally secure and also technically sustainable. I will put a great deal of effort into following that work and ensuring that it is done in a good way. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out how important it is that artificial intelligence, AI, for which Maria Stockhaus speaks so hotly here, is used in such a way in school that we take advantage of the great opportunities that exist but are also aware of the very great risks that exist, not least for students' privacy in terms of the large amount of data that can potentially be collected and that could potentially fall into completely the wrong hands if these tools are used in an uncertain way. Let me also remind you how important it is in the digitalised school to use the possibilities for automatic correction of national tests wisely that we can get if we use this tool. I am proud and happy that we have finally taken hold of the digitalization of the school. I look forward to working on and making different decisions in relation to the school Digit Plan that SKL has left. I also look forward to working with the Riksdag and Maria Stockhaus on these issues.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-630	Madam President, I would like Ingemar Kihlström has asked me if I think it is reasonable that, as the Swedish National Agency for Education proposes, the clear reference to the Bible and religious records contained in the comprehensive school curriculum today and how this proposal goes together with the ambition to make the writings and content of the curriculum clearer. The National Board of Education is now working on developing proposals for revised course and subject plans. The aim is, among other things, to emphasise facts and understanding more clearly and to make knowledge requirements less comprehensive and detailed. Draft proposals were submitted by the National Agency for Education between 25 September and 23 October. The agency is now working on finalising its proposals, based on the comments received, and is planning to submit them to the Government in December 2019. The National Agency for Education has not yet submitted any proposals to the government. The Swedish National Agency for Education writes on its website that the debate spreads errors and misunderstandings about their referrals, including that knowledge is removed only because certain words are replaced by concepts of assembly. The Swedish National Agency for Education also points out that in the debate it is often forgotten that the curricula are teachers' work tools. It is the teachers who, with their knowledge and subject competence, will translate the curricula into teaching one for the students. Regarding the concept of the Bible, the National Board of Education points out that the Bible will not disappear from teaching and that the proposal instead reinforces the teaching of religious texts. Among other things, the proposal makes it mandatory for the teacher to teach the central stories and thoughts of Christianity and world religions. In this way the authority indicates that the teaching of records is strengthened, and the Bible has a natural place there. Let me be clear that I believe that the Bible and other central records have an obvious place on the subject of religious knowledge. It is also important for me that it is clear to the teachers what should be addressed in the teaching. The course and subject plans should be a good working tool for teachers both in planning the content of teaching and in assessing pupils' knowledge. I look forward to seeing the Swedish National Agency for Education's final proposals for revised course and subject plans in December. These will be prepared within the Government Office, and then the Government will take a position on the proposals.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-635	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Education for his answer. The background to my interpellation is the proposal for new subject plans for comprehensive school that the Swedish National Agency for Education has during development and has been out for a referral. The ambition is that they will be in full use until the academic year that starts in autumn 2020. The proposal has attracted a great deal of attention, as the Swedish National Agency for Education has made changes in its ambition for renewal and clarification that brought debate and questioning. The discussion began when it was found that the new proposal included the removal of antiquity education in the subject of history. Then, as we touch on today, the Bible was removed as a reference in the draft new subject plan on religious knowledge. It has also been shown that music removes the clear reference that teaching should include the national anthem and hymns. I do not doubt the Swedish National Agency for Education and its ambition to renew and simplify the subject plans, but in my view the deletions remove an important base for knowledge. The deletion of references to the Bible and psalms reduces the link to the Jewish-Christian foundation of values and the historical background that forms the basis of our society. In the introduction to today's curriculum, Lgr 11, the following clarification is made: a sense of inviolability of human life, the freedom and integrity of the individual, the equal value of all people, equality between women and men and solidarity between people are the values that the school should express and convey. In line with the ethics of Christian tradition and Western humanism, this is done through the individual's education of justice, generosity, tolerance and responsibility. ..................................................... It lays a foundation for teaching. However, this basis, as I see it, is weakened in the new draft subject-matter plans. Madam President, I would like For grades 1 to 3, today's subject plan states that the following should be considered in the subject of religious knowledge: some festivals, symbols and stories in Christianity, Islam and Judaism, some stories from the Bible and their meaning, and some of the most common hymns. This has been changed in the new draft subject plan and shortened to: some festivals, symbols and stories in Christianity, Islam and Judaism and their meanings. For grades 4 to 6, the assignment is now changed accordingly. The original plan today states: central thinking behind rituals, rules of life, and sacred places in Christianity and the other world religions, such as they are expressed in religious accounts in the Bible and other records. This has changed so that there is no longer any reference to the Bible and other records. Madam President, I would like I'm afraid the National Agency for Education has gone wrong. Instead of clarifying, the direction of religious teaching is made vague, without the clear connection to the Bible of today's subject plan. Today's society has a clear reference and connection to the Bible in languages, films, and books. If the new draft curriculum is implemented, I see a great risk that it will cause children and young people to miss out on this knowledge and link. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Education: when comparing the wordings that exist today with the new proposal, as it has been presented so far, does the Minister for Education think it reasonable that, as the National Board of Education proposes, the clear reference to the Bible and religious records should be removed? And does the Minister of Education think that the examples from the new proposal that I have highlighted go hand in hand with the ambition to clarify the wording and content of the curriculum?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-645	Madam President, I would like I have listened with interest to Ingemar Kihlström's post and I find it a bit sad that the referral period for the Swedish National Agency for Education's draft expired on 23 October. This post could have been sent to the Swedish National Agency for Education as a very interesting referral. Now I think that the Swedish National Agency for Education has received quite a lot of similar referrals, so I think that the views expressed on the matter have come to the Swedish National Agency for Education. I look forward with interest to the Swedish National Agency for Education's final proposal. After all, it is almost surprising to all of us who have followed this debate that the final proposal of the Swedish National Agency for Education comes only in December. So it has not yet been delivered. The whole point of sending out a proposal for a referral is, by the way, to get the views that may be there. I am convinced that the Swedish National Agency for Education has received a lot of comments on the texts that have been sent out. For me, it is very difficult to answer the questions Ingemar Kihlström is asking. I choose to wait, wait and see what proposal the National Board of Education will finally submit to the government. After all, it is my job as a minister to take a position on the proposals that come on my table and not on the proposals that are not on my table. May I also remind you that the work that the National Agency for Education is doing concerns the part of the curriculum that we call curricula, that is, curricula, central content and subject plans. It does not refer to the part which Ingemar Kihlström read out and which is the portal clause in the general part of the curriculum. The general part is not under review now.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-650	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. One might think that the debate on the role of the Bible in the subject plan is a debate like a storm in a glass of water. But I see the subject plan as one of the tools for laying a solid foundation and direction, and it is important to show what is important to include in teaching. Today's subject plan and also the new proposal begin with the text: As I see it, today's curriculum provides guidance on how to get there through formulations about teaching central thought lines, such as those expressed in the religious stories in the Bible and other records. It can be noted that only 20 years ago the Swedish Government handed the Bible 2000 to the Riksdag. In connection with this, the then government wrote: When the work is completed, the translation will be handed over to the principals, i.e. the Riksdag, but it will not be confirmed by special state decisions. It is by being taken into general use by the Swedish people that the translation achieves its stated purpose in the directives: to be the main text for B ibeln in the Swedish language area. I find it difficult to see that the new draft subject plan meets this objective of general use if we look at the new direction of teaching. Madam President, I would like The National Board of Education responds to criticism on its website and writes among other things: The Bible will not disappear from teaching. The reason why we no longer use the word the Bible is that we have consistently chosen to use concepts of assembly. In the present curriculum, the Bible is only mentioned as an example of a religious record. In practice, this means that the teacher can opt out of teaching the Bible. Instead, in our new proposal, we make it mandatory for the teacher to teach the central stories and lines of thought of Christianity and world religions. As I explained, however, the Swedish National Agency for Education's changes are more about deletions than additions, enhanced teaching or clarification. In fact, in today's subject plan, direct reference is made to the Bible along with similar wordings found in the new proposal, which makes it clear to me that the Bible should be considered on the subject of religion. I do not understand how a teacher can avoid mentioning, as the National Board of Education says, the Bible in teaching with today's current definition. In a society characterised by diversity and multi-religiousity, knowledge of the Bible and its stories is a necessity. Since the Bible has had and has a relatively large impact on our society, it should continue to be specifically mentioned in the subject plan. Madam President, I would like Although I understand that the Minister for Education cannot comment on the proposal, I would still like to ask a few supplementary questions. If the Swedish National Board of Education maintains the proposed wordings that remove the Bible as a direct reference in the proposal submitted to the government in December, will the government consider changing this proposal and proposing wording more similar to today's subject plan that includes a direct reference to the Bible? The fact is that the curriculum we have today was supplemented by a reference to hymns by the government before final decision was taken.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-661	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ingemar Kihlström, for reminding us of the fine Bible translation that came with the new millennium! I was not a member of the Swedish Parliament at the time, but I served as Secretary of State at the Government Office. I got my own copy that is on my bookshelf and in which I read from time to time even though I have never been taught according to the syllabus that Ingemar Kihlström highlights here. I can only say once again that it is very difficult for me to answer hypothetical questions. It is both difficult to answer questions about what I think about a proposal that has not yet been submitted and to answer questions about how I will handle a proposal that will come on my desk and whose meaning is unknown both to Ingemar Kihlström and to me. I can also say that in my answer I clearly stated that I believe that the Bible and other central records have a natural place on the subject of religious knowledge. If we are now to discuss the Swedish National Agency for Education's proposed syllabus, it is clear that the teaching aims to enable students to gain knowledge of how Christian traditions have affected Swedish society and how Christianity's role in society has changed over time. In the course of teaching, the proposal is also to be addressed, among other things, the central stories and ideas of Christianity. I myself find it difficult to understand how the teacher can teach about this without taking up the Bible. I myself would have gone to that thumbed Bible that I have in my own bookshelf if I were to plan such a teaching. However, all that I am saying now is purely hypothetical. We will see what the proposal from the National Agency for Education will look like. At least I am very happy that the Swedish National Agency for Education was wise enough to send out its proposal for a referral so that you got as much feedback as you got.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-666	Madam President, I would like The role of the Bible in our society is great, both from a historical perspective and in the society in which we live today. Many expressions and pictures are based on the Bible. Many of us understand the situation if one speaks and compares with reference to David and Goljat. The story of the merciful Samaritan shows fellow human concern, and the golden rule-- We see how we can all make our earth a better place. Many say that the Bible is the most read book in our world, and the Bible also provides the basis for much of what we have in our Western legal system. For many, the Bible is a natural part and an important basis for life. With this background, the Swedish National Agency for Education's proposal on a new subject plan for religion, which removes the direct reference to the Bible, does not promote the acquisition of knowledge, social understanding and religious reflection that I want to see. Thank you for your reply and the debate with the Minister for Education. The minister of education himself noted that the Bible and the central records also have a natural place in the subject of religious knowledge. It is important to make it clear to teachers what should be addressed in teaching. Madam President, I would like For the Christian Democrats it is obvious that the subject plan for religion should have a wording that clearly indicates the Bible as a reference, like that contained in today's current curriculum. I hope that the Minister for Education and the Government will listen to all those who have been involved in the matter and that the Government will change the Swedish National Agency for Education's proposal so that the reference to the Bible will remain for the introduction of new subject plans by autumn 2020. When children and young people meet Bible references in our society, I believe that the school's teaching on the Bible contributes to the whole, understanding, and meaning. With clear wordings in which the Bible is included, a basis for teaching is created in line with this. I hope that the government also shares this view and leaves it a basis for its final decision on new subject plans.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-671	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Ingemar Kihlström for this debate and also for reminding us of the importance of being able to separate the chaff from the wheat in a debate on all the major and important problems of the school.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-672	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson has asked me whether organisations that have links to the Muslim Brotherhood and that make themselves a platform for Islamic hate preachers should be able to receive state grants intended for the formation of people. He has also asked me whether I see a need to take measures to ensure that state contributions to education are decided with increased transparency and in a more independent way as regards distribution, scrutiny and follow-up. Initially, I would like to emphasise that peoples' education actors are important in strengthening and developing democracy in Sweden. Folkbildningen is located throughout Sweden and annually gathers more than one million people in various activities within folk high schools and study associations. Folkbildning is free and voluntary, and the government wants to continue to protect that. The Parliament has established the aims of the state contribution to the formation of people and decides in the state budget on the contribution to the formation of people. The Folkbildningsrådet has been mandated by law by the Government to examine questions regarding the distribution of the state grant. The Folkbildningsrådet decides which student associations and folkhögskolan are allowed to participate in state support for folkbildning and have the possibility to recover state grants, including if it has been wrongly granted or if the state grant has been used for purposes other than that for which it has been granted. The Folkbildningsrådet will monitor and review the activities that can be linked to the state grant. During 2018, the Folkbildningsrådet has commissioned a report to follow up on the grant to the student association Ibn Rushd fulfils the democratic condition. Based on the report's conclusions in the autumn of 2019, the Board of the Folkbildningsrådet has decided to instruct the Secretary-General to return to the Board of Directors with suggestions on how the Folkbildningsrådet's follow-up of the entire education can be developed and strengthened in order to deliver a more transparent report. In the case of state grants to organisations and projects, the government has made it clear that government grants should not be given to organisations that carry out activities that run counter to the ideas of democracy, including the principles of equal value and rights of all people. I welcome the work of the Folkbildningsrådet to ensure that state funds are used in a way that meets the state's objectives of public education and that support for public education is made more transparent. Ministry of Education for a continuous dialogue with the Folkbildningsrådet on this work. On the basis of this ongoing work, I do not currently see any need to take further action. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to stress that the model for the distribution of state subsidies to peoples' education is based on strong confidence in the actors of peoples' education to prioritise, implement and monitor their activities on their own. It is a model that serves the purpose of the state with the state contribution to the education of the people. This has, among other things, been demonstrated by Statskontoret in its recent major evaluation of the education of the population that was finalized in 2018.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-679	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for the answer to the interpellation. It is a breakdown when researchers as well as reports from government authorities find that a study association has links to the Islamic Muslim Brotherhood and the organisation still receives millions of grants via the Folkbildningsrådet. Now we have a situation in which the state states with one hand that the organisation has links to the Islamic Muslim Brotherhood, which for a decade has invited hate preachers. With the other hand, the state simultaneously fattens the same organization with tens of millions of dollars in government subsidies each year. It's a bizarre situation. The Muslim Brotherhood is an Islamic organization that has roots in Egypt from the 1920s. A number of countries, both in the Middle East and in other parts of the world, have banned and terror classified the organization. The Brotherhood has a kind of reformist agenda, with a final goal of an Islamic state that would mean the abolition of many of the rights and freedoms that we in Sweden see as given. A report commissioned by the British government under the direction of David Cameron found that Muslim Brotherhood organizations in the UK were working in secret. It was found that they think ideologically that Western society is inherently hostile to Muslims and Muslim interests and that Muslims should respond by keeping distance and autonomy. While the state fattens Ibn Rushd and other organisations with links to the Muslim Brotherhood with contributions, Islamists contribute to dedemocratic Sweden. As late as early 2018, Ibn Rushd invited Noureddine a l-Khademi-Khademi to the Muslim Family Days conference. He is also known as Imam Jihad and has urged young people in Tunisia to join jihad in Syria. About a month ago, the two researchers Magnus Ranstorp and Aje Carlbom at Expressen's debate page on Ibn Rushd in view of the fact that the Folkbildningsrådet now believes that Ibn Rushd fulfils the democratic condition for a state grant despite the well-documented links with the Muslim Brotherhood. They write, among other things, that by paying 23 million/year to IR, the FR strengthens a politically oriented group, namely the one that can be linked to the Islamic Brotherhood's ideological school... This group is a minority of Muslims who have worked for years to gain influence over the religious thinking of Muslims. ..................................................... The link between Ibn Rushd and the Muslim Brotherhood has been established in other reports commissioned by the Swedish Civil Protection Agency (MSB). Also in the report When the trust is examined, which was the review report concerning Ibn Rushd initiated by the Folkbildningsrådet, the link is established. In addition, there are party political links to Ibn Rushd. The former Vice-Chancellor of Ibn Rushd was Omar Mustafa, who had to leave the Party Executive of the Social Democrats after it became clear that he had invited various hate preachers in his role as Chairman of the Islamic League in Sweden. Finally, I note that the Minister in the interpellation response did not give a straight answer to my first interpellation question. But I want a clear message. Does the Minister consider that Swedish taxpayers' money should fund study associations with Islamist connections with tens of millions of SEK a year?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-688	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind you of the four objectives that Parliament has set out to apply to our peoples' education: Public education is intended to strengthen and develop democracy. Public education will increase our ability to influence our life situations. Public education aims to close educational gaps and raise educational attainment levels. 中 People's education should broaden an interest and make sure that more participants and more people are involved and contribute to people's education. Against this background and in view of the fact that for many years we have had a discussion on whether grants have been paid out to activities possibly contrary to the four objectives, the Folkbildningsrådet has on its own initiative commissioned the report When the trust is tested. I must say that it was an interesting report to take note of, Madam President. Professor Erik Amnå has done a good job when he has produced it. I also note that the report concludes that the purpose of adult education is being achieved, also with the contribution that has now been made. But there are things you have to deal with. Among other things, the report points to exactly what the interpeller mentions: that there have been cases in which people have been invited that can hardly be said to correspond to the four objectives. It is excellent that the Folkbildningsrådet tackles this issue. And it is excellent that the report has been ordered. I will closely follow the work of the Folkbildningsrådet to ensure that the four objectives are maintained but also that there is transparency in the work of the Folkbildningsrådet. I will also be careful to follow the work of the Folkbildningsrådet to ensure that all actors who receive grants follow the four objectives. The questions that Jonas Andersson is asking me will be a little difficult to answer with the principled starting point that I have and that the Riksdag has supported, namely that people's education should be free and voluntary. It is not the state, individual ministers or the government that will distribute grants. The system is deliberately designed in such a way that a community council will do so, and the state will keep the arm's length distance. I think it is a good order, and I am prepared to work hard to maintain it. If we are to manage to maintain that order, we need to ensure that the Folkbildningsrådet in all its parts follows the four objectives.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-698	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. But I'm not happy. Maybe that's not surprising. It is very worrying that one cannot give a straight answer to the question of whether organisations linked to the Islamic Muslim Brotherhood should be financed by Swedish taxpayers. I still expect a more direct answer to that question, not just an answer on how the government views the education of the general public in general. Fortunately, there are still several contributions to this debate. I therefore hope that I can have a clearer answer here. Several Swedish authorities and local political assemblies have already acted in different ways against Ibn Rushd and its member organisations. Earlier this year, the City of Gothenburg has actively decided to stop Ibn Rushd as a referral body on various issues in view of the organisation's extremist connections. For similar reasons, Hässleholm Municipality has recently decided to withdraw grants at municipal level to the Student Union. So it seems that people have woken up in some places around Sweden, which is positive. MUCF, the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, has also acted. In 2018, MUCF decided to reject the application for a state grant to the organisation Sweden's Young Muslims because the organisation's activities conflict with democracy's ideas on gender equality and against discrimination and so on. MUCF also calls back the contribution that has been paid to Sweden's Young Muslims. As a basis for decision, there is information, among other things, that representatives of the organisation have shared violent Islamic propaganda and that members have gone to Syria to fight and die there. MUCF was given the right after a court case against Sweden's Young Muslims. The Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm concluded that Sweden's Young Muslims do not operate in accordance with the ideas of democracy. The bizarre thing about this is that Sweden's Young Muslims are a member organization in Ibn Rushd, i.e. the study association that I have interpelled about, and at the same time the Folkbildningsrådet still thinks that the association lives up to the purpose of democracy according to the aims of folkbildning. The Minister points out in his interpellation response that in the case of state grants to organisations and projects, the Government has made it clear that government grants should not be given to organisations that carry out activities that run counter to the ideas of democracy. So what the government says will be a little hard to get together for me. In general terms, does the Minister consider it reasonable for organisations with official functions to contribute to an organisation whose member organisation by another authority and by the courts has been deemed to be carrying out activities which are not compatible with the ideas of democracy? I have another question. Does the Minister see a risk that public confidence in Swedish civil society policy is damaged by the fact that organisations with well-established links to international Islamism are financed with millions of contributions via the Swedish state?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-708	Madam President, I would like During the last parliamentary term, I had the privilege of being responsible for youth ministers. So I had the privilege of closely following MUCF's work. Of course, I also observed at the time what applies to a minister: One must not influence how an authority decides when the authority decides by law. I assume that the MUCF and the Folkbildningsrådet, yes, that everyone who is in a position to decide on grants based on laws, regulations and grants that come ultimately from the taxpayer, will conduct a trial in the individual cases. I assume that the applications on the table will be assessed and that the necessary studies will be carried out to find out whether State resources should be allocated to an organisation in accordance with the present application. It is no wonder to me that an organisation can be refused an application on one occasion and accept an application on another occasion. These may, for example, be different times, different purposes and different activities. My starting point is, of course, that the Folkbildningsrådet, which is not an authority but which is largely acting on grounds of concern and with regulations that are very similar to what an authority should follow, takes its task very seriously and ensures that the four objectives of public education are indeed met. Strengthening and developing democracy? Does this help to influence people's different life situations? Are educational gaps being levelled out? Does the level of formation increase? Will participation be broadened and interest increased? When authorities and the Folkbildningsrådet do so, they do so on the applications, facts and circumstances that exist in the individual case. Let me repeat that I will follow closely how the Folkbildningsrådet deals with these issues. I am pleased that the Folkbildningsrådet ordered the report from Professor Erik Amnå. I have noted and think it is good that the Folkbildningsrådet has taken this report very seriously, and I will follow the work that the Folkbildningsrådet has ahead of me, with this report as a basis, among other things, to ensure that the four objectives are met. The last question asked by Jonas Andersson in Linköping is whether I am concerned that the reputation of the Folkbildningsrådet can be affected. I am, of course, keen that everyone who enjoys the confidence to work with legislation and taxpayers' money should act in such a way as to deserve this trust from taxpayers and the public. I think that should guide all activities that are close to the public.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-715	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Minister says he wants to follow up closely what the Education Council is doing. I think it is necessary to take account of what the situation actually looks like. However, I regret that the government does not seem to fully understand the seriousness of this issue. Unlike the government, the Swedish Democrats have an active and pronounced policy to counteract the establishment of the Muslim Brotherhood in Sweden – something we have, among other things, raised in parliamentary motions. In his reply to my interpellation, the Minister points out that, in autumn 2019, the Board of Governors of the Education Council has taken a decision to instruct the Secretary-General to return to the Board of Directors with proposals on how the Council's follow-up to the whole population education can be developed and strengthened in order to deliver a more transparent accounting. Good, that's a step in the right direction. But in my opinion it is far too little and far too late. While proposals are being made, the Swedish state is pumping millions and millions into organisations that can be linked to international Islamism. The Swedish National Audit Office has previously made serious criticisms of the Folkbildningsrådet, and the Council was asked to achieve better governance and control over the activities to which the grants go. In 2018, Statskontoret also concluded that the internal control carried out by the study associations is inadequate. There is therefore a sharp criticism of the action of the Education Council, which has now been re-examined in the case of Ibn Rushd. The criticism of the Folkbildningsrådet regarding control and transparency also comes from various researchers and debaters, including Magnus Ranstorp. Can the Minister guarantee that the Swedish Folkbildningsrådet's own forthcoming proposals for improved follow-up and increased transparency will be enough to meet up with the serious criticism from, among others, the Swedish National Audit Office and Statskontoret?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-721	Madam President, I would like One of my first managers once told me: Everything human is faultable, and under this general rule also falls the work of the Labour Court. I worked at the Labour Court. I guess I'll have to repeat these words: all human activities are faulty. I cannot, of course, stand here and promise that every decision in the future will be taken with 100% accuracy. But I can promise that I will closely follow the work of the Education Council. The reason for that is that I think our education is extremely important. Our education has been a part of developing Sweden. Through study associations and folk high schools, generations of politicians have received training and education in everything from meeting techniques to basic knowledge of people's equal value. I'm going to work hard to keep the freedom of public education. It should be free and voluntary. I see a great value in our education being driven from below by many people. Olof Palme once said that Sweden is a study circle democracy. I am so grateful that for so many years our education has given us not only knowledge and education throughout the country, but also an infrastructure of democratically-governed organisations. I will do my utmost to protect the freedom, volunteering and position of peoples' education in Sweden. Thanks for the interpellation!
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-726	Madam President, I would like Katarina Brännström has asked me what I as the responsible minister do to ensure that Swedish authorities do not describe Sweden as an unrequired grant paradise internationally. Katarina Brännström has also asked me how I think it helps Sweden's international image that sweden.se highlights what people who are here illegally can get for benefits. Ludvig Aspling has also asked me how I, as a minister, ensure that the Swedish Institute's information to the public is consistent with the Government's objective of getting more people to apply for asylum in other EU countries than Sweden. Ludvig Asplund has also asked me how I ensure that the authority does not provide information that risks attracting people to Sweden to receive grants. The promotion of Sweden will highlight the welfare society built up by generations. Swedish welfare and the Swedish model are based as much on right as on duty. The Swedish Institute is the authority responsible for disseminating information and knowledge about Sweden. Among other things, it does so via the website sweden.se, where there are about 150 articles that in different ways tell about Sweden. Among other things, the Swedish Institute will disseminate information about Sweden's values and experiences in the areas of innovation, sustainability, culture and creativity and various societal solutions. Some are to describe how the Swedish welfare system works. By all contributing and doing their duty, Sweden has come to develop the world's most developed welfare systems. Through the site, information about our social model and our Swedish values can be further disseminated. Information about Sweden is also relevant information for those who plan to study, work or establish their company in our country. Not least, it is relevant to attract talent in various areas of activity to Sweden, which is of great importance for our companies to grow. At the same time, it is important that the information is justified on the basis of this overall objective and the relevant target group. This also means that the information should be balanced, that the example texts used should be relevant for the purpose and that appropriate formulations should be used. The information should be communicated in a very clear way. For example, there should be no room for interpretation of how extensive or restrictive access to emergency and life-threatening healthcare for non-citizens is. As the responsible minister for Sweden promotion, I met with the Director General of the Swedish Institute at the end of October to talk about, among other things, the agency's Swedish information. The agency has already started work to review the information it publishes in its channels. I will closely follow the Swedish Institute's change work, and I note that they have already made a number of changes.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-734	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer. Just as the Government said, the Swedish Institute is the government authority, which has its own website that markets Sweden and is called sweden.se. It is great that there is a website that was created so that people around the world can easily get a good picture of how Sweden looks and works. The idea and purpose are good. It is important that there are opportunities to find clear and accurate information about the country and that the text is available in many languages. What is rather strange, however, is that sweden.se also gives the picture of a Sweden as a unconditional welfare and welfare paradise, even for those who are illegally present in the country, as well as how easy it is for refugees and others to get healthcare free of charge and other benefits from Swedish welfare. It says about the highest possible levels of benefits and boasts that you do not have to think about the economy, even if you are unemployed, when you have children, for example. It describes the amount of money that can be paid out for several children. For example, six children can receive $15,000 a month. One wonders why that task is relevant. This sends strange signals about what Sweden should be and who we want to come here. In its answer to me, the Government stresses that the marketing of Sweden should highlight the Swedish welfare, built up by generations, and that the Swedish model is based on just as much right as on duty. I wonder: Has the Government been in and read on sweden.se? There is nothing about duty, only about rights. The Government also writes: a part of it is to describe how the Swedish welfare system works. By all contributing and doing their duty, Sweden has come to develop the world's most developed welfare systems. Yes, that's right. But then I think that the government and the Minister should make sure that it also says on the website that you have to contribute. Of course it is – it may not be able to stand as such, because it is not really the case that you have to contribute or do your duty. It is possible to get this without obligations or requirements. This is precisely what I, and many others with me, object to: that we market Sweden as very undemanding and that contributions and welfare exist for everyone, even for those who have not contributed. Now a tab on the website is closed. That's lucky, because there were the worst writings. It's under revision, it says on the website. That is good, because the information there about free welfare benefits may not be what we want to show. It is about who we want to come to Sweden. In the answer, the Government also writes that the information is directed to relevant groups, and that is good. It's talent and talented people we want to come to Sweden, but the part that was on the website and that I wrote about in my interpellation attracts the most those who seem to be interested in grants. That was not the intention at all. There are other peculiarities, too, which I intend to mention in my next speech. The language and translations are really bad. It would be interesting to hear how one views the image conveyed by a Sweden with a lot of contribution and prosperity. There are many other tabs there, but there is a huge imbalance, I think, in the image of Sweden. We also want something, not just give.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-743	Madam President, I would like So what we are debating is Sweden's official website, sweden.se, which is there to give a positive picture of the country. However, we are a little sceptical about some of the information that is highlighted, to which audience it addresses itself and also to the quality of the information itself. The site has a huge focus on what grants and how large contributions you can expect as immigrants in Sweden. On the website we can read that in Sweden parental benefit is also paid to parents who are unemployed. Families with six children can receive SEK 7 500 in child benefit and SEK 4 240 per month in multi-child allowance. You get 80% of your salary in case of illness or vab. Persons with a reduction receive 24-hour assistance. Free health care also applies to those who have been refused an asylum application and live in Sweden illegally. It says that parents get 480 parenting days and that this is much compared to other countries. Hospitalization costs SEK 100 a day, and patients never have to pay more than SEK 1,100 a year for medicines. It also says that Swedes welcome paying taxes and that an increasing number would accept paying even more. In addition to this, the website also spreads the myth of the so-called apathetic children, despite the fact that very serious information has recently been revealed that these children are actually being exploited by adults who want asylum in Sweden. Madam President, I would like It is in the nature of the matter that a website that will provide information about an entire country will include quite a large amount of material. The website does not claim to deliver all information about Sweden, but the agency somewhere makes an editorial choice of what you want to highlight. It is precisely in this selection that we can see what this authority is really doing, which is to attract as many immigrants as possible and even before they come here to make it clear that they will never have to support themselves. This is in practice what is being done in this information about Sweden. In view of this, I would like to ask the Government whether she believes that the selection of information highlighted risks being a so-called pull factor for people who want to move to Sweden precisely to receive grants. I would also be very interested in hearing what source the Swedish Institute has for the claim that more Swedes would accept to pay more in tax. I also wonder whether it is appropriate to highlight the issue of the so-called apathetic children at the very moment when this has proved to be a myth.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-750	Madam President, I would like It is nothing new that the Moderates want to find every opportunity to question the internationally recognised and successful Swedish model. Over the years, the Moderates have said no to health insurance, improved pensions, more holiday weeks and unemployment status. Over the years, they have said no to free education and no to trade union rights. Madam President, I would like All over the world there is an interest in the Swedish model – for our unique partner model, for our equal parental insurance and for our educational system that gives all people the opportunity to study regardless of background, regardless of their wallet or origin. But, of course, our welfare model must never be abused. Any violation of our unique welfare system must be combated. The expression does your duty, demands your right is self-evident. In Sweden, everyone who can work should do so. As more people get into work, we get more resources to hire more nurses, more police officers and more teachers. That's how we build society strong. Katarina Brännström highlights in her interpellation the Moderates' vision of the welfare state. Her perspective is based on an incorrect picture of the Swedish model. The welfare state is not about giving alms. It's the other way around. Welfare enables change, increases our growth and ensures that the vast majority that create our enormous wealth can also benefit from it. Therefore, welfare is also general with equal conditions for all who create it. Katarina Brännström claims that the Moderates intend to change the rules of welfare. Then one might ask whether it is, for example, descent that should determine the right to participate in the welfare state. Madam President, I would like When I became aware of the relevant text on the Swedish Institute's website, I naturally asked to meet the Director General of the Swedish Institute. She informed me that earlier, before our meeting, they had begun a review of their texts and reviewed their communication strategy to ensure that the information is correct. Of course it should be of the highest quality. Of course it should give a balanced view of Sweden. The Swedish Institute and its website sweden.se must give a correct, objective and balanced view of Sweden. The benefits of our model should be demonstrated, and other countries should be inspired to follow our model and organise their communities in the same way as we do with our successful business model. That is an obvious starting point for me.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-758	Madam President, I would like Here came a long post about what the Moderates think about Swedish welfare. That is not what this interpellation is about. I can only tell you that we are very concerned about Swedish welfare, paid by taxpayers in Sweden. We take care of every privilege we have. Therefore, we may have other thoughts about how wide this will spread. That is what this interpellation is about. Everything else I think is on a low level. This is a picture that has spread for years. This text has been here for years. PM Nilsson in Dagens Industri wrote about this one or two years ago. This is nothing new. Many refugees are well informed about the systems we have in Sweden. It is already a pull factor, as previous speakers said, when you know how much you have the right to receive in Sweden. That's not good. There are also many peculiarities on this website that I think you should look at. The language and translations are really bad. I cannot understand why it says: Unlike some other countries, many Swedes – even welcome – tolerate high taxes. What kind of information is it to send out into the world? That's not even true. It goes on to say that a growing number of people accept even higher taxes to pay for a largely fair and well-functioning public service society and a universal safety net. I don't really know what this means. But maybe the government can explain that. This is not at all relevant. If the Swedish Tax Agency says a lot of nonsense, or what does the Government say about the following: You can focus on midnight feeds and dirty diapers when you have a child. The authorities handle everything around social security numbers etc. For those who try to learn Swedish, the website is a disaster. The translations into Swedish are incredible. Barnaga becomes a corporate punishment in Swedish. It says first that it is forbidden to hit children. Then it says that corporate punishment is prohibited. So corporal punchment has been mistranslated. There are many such errors on this website. At some point it says: No, polar bears do not exist in Sweden. It is almost a gleam of ridicule over how we want to sell and market Sweden. There is so much to object to and question. What I have mentioned in my interpellation is precisely this about our Swedish welfare and contributions. I think it is really bad, and I really want to say that we should protect our welfare and that we should be careful of what we have. If we get people here who think it's great to come here with six children and get 12 000 SEK a month in child benefit alone, it may not be this group that we want first and foremost to come to Sweden. We want talent and experts to come here. Unfortunately, however, when we only talk about contributions in this way, we give the impression that it is others that we want to come here. I find that very unfortunate. In fact, I think the Government agrees with me on that, because that is not how we want to sell Sweden, is it? We want to be a good country with high technology, security and security. Unfortunately, the picture at the moment is not only positive Sweden. It's crime, bombings, shootings, and other things that are being cabled all over the world. It is therefore important that we protect and nurture the image of Sweden in a positive way and do not screw it away or talk about things that are not relevant on such an important website as this actually is.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-769	Madam President, I would like I would like to extend a special thanks to Katarina Brännström, who has obviously managed to get through more of the rubbish that is on this website than I have done myself. I actually gave up after a little while, because it was too much. Another question that might be asked is how important this information actually is. A fairly large part of my acquaintance is made up of people who come from other countries. A majority of those I associate with are foreigners, I would definitely say. I did a little unscientific study among my friends about how many have actually used this website for its real purpose, i.e. to find out important facts about Sweden. Zero people, perhaps seven to eight, had ever heard of the existence of this page. I therefore wonder how much impact it actually has. And luckily it is, because it would have been quite embarrassing if they had actually been inside and looked there. I also note that the Government completely ignores the questions I put in the interpellation. I do not know if there is any point in asking more questions, because we are clearly not going to get any sensible answers here tonight. But I still thought I'd give it a try. In the interpellation answer it says:. Information about Sweden is also relevant information for those who plan to study, work or establish their company in our country. ..................................................... If the information is relevant to those who are going to study, work or establish businesses, why is it such a huge focus on what benefits unemployed people and illegal immigrants can receive? I wonder. It is not the case that the people who work, study or start companies can take part in these grants, but it is quite other people. So why is it this focus if the purpose is to get people here who study and work? It is a rather simple question to which I think the Government can at least make an attempt to answer. I have another question concerning the Arabic-speaking version of this website, on which I am assuming to be very exciting. Unfortunately, I myself do not have the opportunity to read Arabic. It would have been fun to be able to do that. But I can't, so I relied on a friend who translated for me. The following is said: The proportion of Muslims and their influence on Swedish society continues to increase. What does the Swedish Institute mean by the fact that the proportion of Muslims and their influence on Swedish society continues to increase? What does this mean in practice? It can be interpreted in a slightly different way. It would be very interesting to hear a little developing answer about what this actually means.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-777	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is of the utmost importance that the information available in Sweden's official channels is factual, balanced, motivated and of the highest quality. It is self-evident to me as the responsible Minister of State, and I think it is a matter of course for all of us who have an interest in these issues. The information must also be relevant for the purpose and for the target groups to be reached. Appropriate wording shall be used and translations shall be absolutely correct. It should also be very clear that Swedish welfare is based as much on right as on duty. I would really like to emphasise that in this context it is of the utmost importance for me as Minister to ensure this. About a month and a half after I took office as responsible minister, I was reminded of the relevant wording. Then I acted immediately; I called the Director-General to me, for I wanted to question myself about how to reason, what plans and how to reason. For me, it was very important to follow the work with the Swedish picture. I also got an account of the story behind this. I am a little hesitant to mention it, because it does not really feel good to blame previous governments, but since the Arabic-speaking site was now taken up by Ludvig Aspling, I would like to say that this page was launched during the time that Katarina Brännström's party was part of the Swedish government. The then moderate trade minister Ewa Björling actually went to Egypt to personally deliver the Arabic-speaking site. Furthermore, much of the members criticized the passages during the time that the Moderates led the Swedish government. Why, then, is it relevant for me to lift this today? Well, I do so because, as the responsible minister of state, I have received a number of written questions and interpellations from the right-wing parties of Parliament on this matter. However, there is a story behind it. As a newly appointed Minister, I am extremely keen that there should be high quality of the information we publish about Sweden on our official websites. Instead, if you are opposed to general welfare as a political idea, which can be imagined behind these comments, I think you should stand for it. It is quite clear to me that the point in all the questions raised by Parliament's right-wing coalition is directed towards the existence of welfare. Is that what we are talking about here today – is it not reasonable for the state to strengthen the finances of families with children? Should people not be at home with their children for such a long time? If that's what we're talking about, it's a completely different issue from the quality of the Swedish Institute's website. The texts on asylum seekers, health care and so on have been removed from sweden.se on the Director General's own initiative. On several of the web pages in different languages, there are now no details linked to the grant system, and the Director General has informed me that the entire content of sweden.se should be reviewed. I take this very seriously, and this applies, of course, above all, to quality in the future. Commenting on individual translations, details and content on the agency's website, I am not going to do today, nor is it my job to go in and regulate such things in detail. However, I fully support the fact that the quality of the Swedish official websites must be of the highest quality.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-784	Madam President, I would like I take note of the last thing the Government said, namely that it should be of the highest order. If so, there is much to do on this website. We fully agree that we should talk about our school and about the fantastic preschool we have in Sweden. We are going to talk about what working conditions we have and about the pay situation, and we are going to talk about the high quality of housing. There is a lot we can talk about when it comes to our amazing Sweden and how well we have it. We have democracy and rights, but we also have obligations. I think we all have a responsibility for what has been done around this website. I know it came into being during the time of the Alliance, but I don't know if the contents looked the same then as they are now. The situation in Sweden is also different now in view of what has happened – the increasing crime rate, increased immigration and other things in recent years. This means that we have to deal with the facts, matters and the picture in a very serious way. I can tell you that it is precisely the existence of welfare, as the Government mentioned, that we Moderates want to protect. It is very important that our Swedish welfare should remain. We all pay taxes for it, and we want it. In its interpellation response, the Government said a lot about this with just as much right as duty, and I think that should permeate much of the message. That's how we work here in Sweden. It's not that you can just come here and get a lot of benefits and rights without contributing. So I choose the good answer and hope that we get a great website that gives a positive picture of what we actually want to convey. It is about us getting here the good skills that Swedish companies and employers so badly need to be able to develop and cope with the competition with the rest of the world.
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-789	Madam President, I would like I find it a little sad that the Government consistently refuses to answer one of the questions I asked in the interpellation. I had five very specific questions, and they should be answered. They were not very complicated, but the Government is apparently not at all interested in providing any information to the Swedish Parliament. It's really boring. I was going to make one last attempt here; the Government has one speech left. PerPer-Arne Wikström, Head of Swedish Communications at the Swedish Institute, has stated that the information is there to create interest in people who want to move to or work in Sweden. It is therefore about getting more people to move to and work in Sweden. How does that statement rhyme with the Government's ambition that more people should apply for asylum in other countries?
i-2db7a1bae7aeb5c3-791	Madam President, I would like There was talk of companies earlier. I have worked in business all my life – in fact, closest to small and medium-sized enterprises – and the most visible obstacle to growth among companies in Sweden today is the shortage of labour. We must attract competence, not only within Sweden and to the whole of Sweden, but also from other countries. We must enable and promote Sweden as a country that we want to live and work in. Of course, this is about attractive companies and attractive employers, but it is also about our entire welfare system. It is a very attractive model for many talent talents. It is precisely this that is one of the most important assignments for the Swedish Institute – to create a picture of Sweden that attracts that type of people to our country. I came back to it earlier, and I will return to it again: The Swedish Institute's image should be factual and correct. I will follow this very closely. As I have mentioned, I have met the Director General of the Swedish Institute, and I have been informed that work is now under way on reviewing and changing the information. It is also important to ensure that it helps attract not only excellence from other countries but also foreign investment. It is also about spreading the image of our welfare model around the world. I will come back to the fact that I will follow this work closely. I will make sure that the quality of the information is high.
