i-VkkZyYeuWVZswMivV3YDon	Madam President, I would like Good morning! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 in the FIU20 and of reservation 1 in the FIU21. This parliamentary year is now coming to an end, and the government has been running Sweden for six months with the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. The Financial Policy Council recently presented its annual assessment of fiscal policy. I was going to mention it, because this year's Council report may be regarded as a trend break. Since the beginning of the Government's Löfven, the Council of Finance Ministers has consistently criticised the Government for its policy being too expansionary and simply having been too fueled in good times and saving too little for a downturn. It is therefore gratifying that, when assessing the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, for the first time in several years, the Council of Finance Ministers has come to the conclusion that the policy is balanced in relation to the economic cycle and also in line with the surplus target. I am proud of the work we did last autumn. Above all, it was a budget that was important for Sweden, following the priority of welfare and took a step to strengthen Sweden's security and make integration work better. But it is also a policy of full employment and stronger growth. That's the only way we can face tomorrow's challenges. Madam President, I would like The budget means that effort pays better. Everyone who works has received reduced taxes from 1 January. All pensioners have also received reduced taxes.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-10	A record bet was made to strengthen the defense. The police received a substantial contribution, for example, so that the police's salaries can already this year be SEK 1 000 higher a month, thanks to our budget. In order to shorten care queues in health care, a new queue billion should be introduced. Unfortunately, it has been delayed. But it will soon be introduced, according to the Prime Minister, thanks to our budget. On 1 July, the special payroll tax will be abolished, thanks to our budget. So it is the penalty tax for those who want to hire older people. On 1 July, too, the tax on entrepreneurial generation shifts will be reduced, thanks to the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. On 1 July, the over-indexation of petrol and diesel will be removed. It is important for all those who are dependent on taking the car to work and driving children to school, preschool and football training and who may not have the same public transport opportunities as they have here in central Stockholm. Unfortunately, this overindexation will be reintroduced. And if you read and believe the media, petrol taxes and fuel taxes will be increased in the future. On 1 July, the RUT ceiling will be raised, so that more people can get the first important line in their CV, thanks to our budget. Madam President, I would like These are some examples of how our budget makes Sweden better. That is also why the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats were supported in this House. Unlike many other parties, after the elections we did what we said we would do before the elections. But so much more needs to be done, because the challenges and problems are there. One of our biggest issues in the future is the lack of integration: that parallel societies are growing stronger every day, that the oppression of honour is taking hold of more and more girls but also boys, that women – often mothers – who have been in Sweden year after year can still barely speak helpful Swedish and that unemployment among immigrants is 16 per cent in a boom. As the economic cycle reverses, Madam President, these people will increase considerably. Then the cost of failing integration becomes clearer. Although I am delighted with all the new arrivals who have actually come to Sweden in recent years, got a job and can support themselves, I am concerned about the very high unemployment rate among those born in another country. To tackle this, reforms are needed. Sweden needs a benefit reform in which those who have immigrated to Sweden qualify for welfare systems. It is not reasonable or fair that anyone who comes here in their 50s or 60s can basically have the same pension as the one who lived here all his life. A grant reform should also include a premium ceiling, because it must always pay off to work. Madam President, I would like Sweden also needs language requirements not only for citizenship but already in SFI. We must be clear that Sweden needs to adapt to the Swedish labour market. Whether you were born in Sweden, work as a midwife and do not want to perform abortions or have immigrated here and do not want to take women in hand or work in some kitchens, the same rules apply to everyone. We need to protect the tick we have. It's not about the person who has immigrated here giving up his cultural identity or denying his religion – no, it's about living by common rules based on important values. It is the game rules that have emerged over generations and shaped Sweden into the country that so many of us are proud of. Everyone has to contribute. Madam President, I would like If integration is to succeed, migration must be tight for many years to come. It says that several parties are behind it, but now that we come to action, they are doing something quite different. Today, the Riksdag is to decide to extend the temporary law and also to open up for more family immigration. Without an impact assessment, the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Liberals, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats will vote in favour of a law that can cost us dearly. That's the wrong way to go. Sweden, which has failed in so many ways with integration, will now again receive a more generous reception. Have the parties learned nothing? Isn't it time to take responsibility? Madam President, I would like In the years to come, priorities will be needed to cope with well-being – tough priorities. In addition, we need to put the light on what can boost growth and thus also contribute to the financing of welfare. How can we make the cake grow further? The fact that Sweden has too low per capita growth in relation to many other countries is worrying. It is a matter to take seriously, and here most of the focus of the Riksdag should be in the next few years. That is why, among other things, we Moderates presented the focus on tax reform in the Spring Movement. We see tax reform as one of many means of solving social problems. This applies not only to low productivity growth but also to the lack of integration, a change in demographics, a dysfunctional housing market and the major climate threat. Madam President, I would like However, tax reform is also about legitimacy. Sweden should be a country where everyone does their part but where everyone also feels that they get something back. Responsibilities and effort will pay off. The Swedes pay among the highest taxes in the world and will be able to count on every crown to do as much good as possible. That is the focus we want to see in a tax reform. What the government and the cooperation parties want with theirs is still unclear. Madam President, I would like Finally, we are moving towards so-called summer leave here in Parliament. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all parties, members of the committee and officials for an intensive but good Parliamentary meeting. Thank you for your cooperation! I would like to wish you and the Minister for Finance Magdalena Andersson a nice summer.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-27	Madam President, I would like A little over a month ago, just a few days before the Defense Committee would submit its report Värnkraft, imploded the preparation. Four parties chose to leave the preparation. To me, it is excessively clear who is responsible for this implosion. In fact, it is not the four bourgeois parties, and it is definitely not the Swedish Democrats – it is one hundred per cent, categorically, the Social Democrats who are responsible. It may sound a little unfair, but it really cannot be described in any other way. To the extent that there has been a draft battle between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance, it is clear that the Ministry of Finance won that draft battle, so I suppose it is only to congratulate the Minister of Finance. The loser, however, is the security and security of the Swedish people. A leader writer at Svenska Dagbladet chose to describe the Social Democrats as a security risk, and I am quite inclined to agree with that description. The Social Democrats are a security risk. It is clear that it is not capable of taking these deeply serious and central issues seriously – issues that ultimately concern Sweden's security as a nation. An enormous responsibility now lies with the government's obeying parties, the Centre Party and the Liberals, in view of the budget proposal coming in the autumn. Make a reality of your influence and your budget cooperation! If the government presents a poor defence budget that does not meet the demands of the preparation – leave the cooperation. Just get up and get out of there! Madam President, I would like We are now being reached by more and more alarms about the economic state of many of the country's municipalities. SKL's own forecasts show quite clearly and dramatically how expenditure increases more than revenue increases. The difference, i.e. the expenditure increases relative to revenue increases, next year – 2020 – amounts to SEK 15 billion, and then rises to SEK 31 billion and then SEK 43 billion for 2022. This rather bleak development in the financial position of the local government sector has to do with at least three things. There are probably more, but there are at least three things. We have a weaker economic development with a historically as well as internationally extremely low growth in terms of bnp per capita. That's one explanation. The second explanation is that we are getting older. It's not really a problem or something bad; after all, it's better to live than to die, ceteri's paribus. However, the primary explanation for this is that the government has chosen to pursue a particularly irresponsible migration policy. Local authorities have been forced to take the consequences of this policy, and they have simply run from the bill. The result of all this is inevitable: substantial cuts in municipal welfare or substantial tax increases. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats will strengthen the municipal economy corresponding to SEK 12.4 billion for next year and SEK 19.2 billion for 2021 relative to the Government's budget. There are significant improvements, but strengthening revenue is not enough – expenditure also needs to be squeezed back. A tight, restrictive immigration policy is what has the fastest and most effective effect on expenditure. Such a policy is intended for the Swedish Democrats to conduct. Madam President, I would like In this proposal's proposed tax increases, large parts of the heat generation are effectively eliminated, especially in Stockholm, but also in Gothenburg, for example. We have been told by the Green Party that this is only a problem if it gets cold, which is, of course, a perfectly correct analysis of the situation in all respects. As long as it's hot, the need for thermal power isn't overly obvious, that's it. But we happen to live quite far north, where it tends to get reasonably cold in winter, and then it is quite pleasant with thermal power. So we are threatened by lack of power in the capital – in peacetime. We are faced with a situation in which, because of government policy, we are unable to supply electricity to the capital of the empire. With a little imagination, one can imagine what it will look like in smaller places in times of crisis or, in the worst case, wartime. There is therefore a clear and tangible risk that many investments, such as housing, metro stations, the 5G network and the Stockholm bypass, cannot be put into operation. There is a risk that it will not be possible because we have a lack of effect. There are calculations – it is not I who made them, but it is someone else – that shows that the socio-economic losses that arise as a result of this amount to SEK 150 billion. It is SEK 150 billion in losses, so that the Social Democrats and the Green Party, supported by the Center Party and the Liberals, can raise the tax by SEK 440 million. Are you absolutely sure you've thought this through properly? Madam President, I would like The increase in mental illness is one of the biggest public health challenges of our time, and the Swedish Democrats take this very seriously. This is why we have developed a strong package of measures with efforts at – over the budget period – a total of SEK 2.5 billion that in different ways will strengthen the mental health of our population. First of all, we need clear, coherent and long-term government governance in this area; we believe that this is a prerequisite for meeting current developments. The fact that mental health is deteriorating in our population is complex and therefore there are no simple solutions. Nor is this an issue that can only be limited to health care, but it is something that needs to be addressed at all levels of society. In our budget, we launch measures to prevent illness, improve care for those who have fallen ill and increase the possibility of rapid recovery. It is high time to take this worrying development seriously. Through clear resource enhancements and innovative proposals in this area, we show that mental health is and will be a priority for the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, I would like I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 2.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-45	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for our reservations to be approved. This morning – today, this morning – hundreds of thousands of parents left their eye stones, the very best gold clips and prodigies for preschool and Fritis. It is a great trust parents give to the staff in preschool. Others think that home help will make Grandma have a good day. Some of us have relatives who are in hospital, and we trust that health - care professionals will make sure that they get well and come home again. And for most of us, the importance of the school cannot be stressed enough. This says a lot about the importance of welfare activities in people's lives. We are all affected by them – by how they work, by their quality and by what does not really work. When I meet people and ask them what is important to them, it is usually just the welfare activities they lift up. We in the Left Party give priority to welfare and economic equality. That is why we are proposing tax increases for the richest – for the wealthy. But oh so many sneezes and oh so much sneezing we usually hear from the right when we say it! Tax increases for the wealthy are something that seems to cause some kind of allergy shock on the right-wing Parliament bench. Rather, they seem to believe in eternal efficiency requirements, symbolic policies, savings on the sick or the unemployed, or even in throwing people out of this country. They seem to think magic will fix the welfare underfunding. This may be hard for them to hear, but it's not working. People see it, they notice it, they sense it. The welfare workers sense it into their skins, and no tax reduction in the world will solve it. That's why we're betting. We have realised that welfare is underfunded, and we are serious about doing something about it. We are investing in substantially increased state subsidies to welfare, so that we can do something about understaffing, stress and working conditions, and so that we can improve quality and allow more people to benefit from welfare. The home service needs to become more accessible and work more preventive, and stress and minute hunting need to be reduced. Preschools and schools need more employees and smaller sizes of groups and classes. Public transport needs to be expanded throughout the country and made more accessible, and tariffs need to be reduced. Climate change must be done, and the gold mines of libraries need to reach more, not least in these times of fake news. Children must be able to learn to swim even though parents cannot afford the swimming school fee. Sports halls must be able to be equipped and located in the neighbourhoods of children and young people. Of course, employees in welfare should not have to rush so that they get sick or feel compelled to choose a different profession from what they have actually trained to do because they feel that they do not get the resources they need to do the work that is really needed. The left has no banknote press in the basement, as others seem to have. Instead, we choose to raise taxes so that we can invest in welfare for real. But we are also doing this because we are serious about economic equality. The pre-school uprising, the Teacher March and the municipal appeal for elderly care gathers many, who all want the welfare to get the resources it needs and who believe that it is not reasonable for the staff to carry the welfare on their shoulders by being constantly understaffed and stressed and by running faster and paying their own wage increases with greater workload. But now savings packages after savings packages are being put forward around the country. In Kristinehamn you should save 6.7 percent. In Hu diksvall, 100 employees are expected to be removed. In the region of Gävleborg, from which I come, you should save 6 per cent of the net costs for health care and public transport. In Ljusdal, the tax is raised by 50 cents. Even Danderyd is forced to bite the sour apple and raise the treasure. They have had to realise that taxes cannot be reduced and welfare financed. It is not even possible to finance elderly care with one-off income. The Moderates and Christian Democrats in Danderyd have probably learned a lot about economics lately. Hammarö beats everyone; the tax increase there is 1.50. But in Kramfors and Dorotea it is not possible to raise the tax, because there it is already very high. The Swedish Municipalities and County Council warns that a large number of municipalities – about 100 – will be in deficit next year. Some 40 municipalities plan to raise the tax – there are more than during the financial crisis. One in three regions was in deficit last year, and more are expected to be next year. In addition, eight out of ten municipalities expect higher costs of support when Arbetsförmedlingen's offices disappear in 132 of the country's municipalities. In particular, municipalities with low levels of education and high unemployment are affected. These are municipalities that usually have a very tough time. But the 73-point gang continues on the line of the bourgeois government, where tax cuts seem to be more prioritised than welfare. This is not really surprising, since the Liberals and the Centres have focused at national level on tax cuts, privatisations and symbolic policies. When the school screams for resources, Björklund responds with a mobile ban and removed military tax. When elderly care screams for resources, Annie Lööf responds with RUT contributions for guardians and flower watering. When Arbetsförmedlingen is removed in Nordanstig and Hofors, they answer with one voice: ..................................................... As early as next year, the tax reductions for the 10 per cent of the wealthiest are expected to be greater than the increase in general government subsidies for the entire local government sector. The resource gap after the expected resource supplement of the 73-point gang is significantly larger than their contribution. So a lot of money is missing to maintain today's quality in welfare. The 73-point group then chooses to remove the military tax, i.e. to make a tax cut for those who earn 59 000 or more. It is therefore more important to improve the economy, especially for men who earn 59 000 kroner or more than to ensure that we have money for elderly care, care and school. Instead, if the 6 billion were to be spent on increasing the wages of all the country's full-time nurses, they would increase their salary from $25,000 to $25,000 a month, that is, all the country's full-time nurses could receive a salary increase of 4,000 a month. I know my priorities and I think I know what most people would prioritise, but not the 73-point gang. 6 billion also corresponds to the salary of 12 000 teachers for a year. Imagine what it would do for the school, for the children, for the students' results, for the teachers and the working environment! I can assure you that the 6 billion would have done much better in welfare. Madam President, I would like For decades, the economic divides have grown in Sweden, and at a rapid rate. We are like the best in the OECD class when it comes to this. We have the least redistributive tax system among the EU's 15 core countries. And if we continue to increase the gaps at the same rate as we have done in recent decades, we will be bypassing the US already in the 2030s. It doesn't feel like it was meant or can be considered as part of the Swedish model. Systematically, the most wealthy, the richest, have benefited for decades after decades. Tax cuts for this particular target group have meant that Sweden spends less and less as a share on the common. This could be social security systems or public spending on welfare. While we are not spending enough resources on welfare, we are allowing huge private profit withdrawals from it. We're building a system of segregation at school. We have the most poor pensioners in the Nordic countries, and sick people are not allowed to receive sickness benefit or sickness benefit. That people should have a home has been left to the market to solve, as well as the problems of rural areas with service. The gaps are growing in different ways in our country. We are getting more and more rich and more poor. The OECD, which can hardly be regarded as a left-wing organisation, has calculated that our growth would have been significantly higher if we had evened out economic differences. The economic guidelines of the Left Party are about solving inequality and the problems that follow in its wake. We want to see a well-being that holds together, a health insurance that can be trusted, that divides are evened out and that it is ordinary people who should be prio. Full employment must, of course, be the objective. And climate change, which is absolutely necessary, must be implemented and fair. Security systems must be fixed and strengthened and financial gaps evened out. Those who are best placed and prioritised should not be, but they should pay, while the single mother, the worn-out cleaner, the assistant nurse, the preschool teacher, the children and the young should be given priority. It must be possible to get a place to live. And when you've worked and worked your whole life, you're gonna get a pension that you can live on. That is how we build a country that holds together, which gives people security and freedom. That is how we oppose racism and promote cohesion. Inequality has its price. Equality is the answer.
i-NMQ2TaQWyfN3fv3WhhrxmX	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of joint reservation No 1 of the Christian Democrats and Moderates in FiU21 and reservation No 4 of the Christian Democrats in FiU20. While the Alliance's signature was a joint analysis of social problems and the joint elaboration of reforms to meet them, the proposals of the January parties are political products marked by panderings. The parties must be forced to carry out reforms that they do not believe in. This is why no one really wants to take responsibility. There was someone else who wanted this particular reform, not us. This also means that these proposals lack some of the focus of politics that Sweden needs. The Social Democrats are to implement policies that they have been fighting for decades, and those who push through the most radical reforms then do not really want to stand for them when they face reality. There is, of course, a part of the amending budget and the spring proposals that we have to deal with that is good, but at the same time symbol politics reaps triumphs when everyone should have some of their own. Free entrance to some state museums in Stockholm, restored poorly functioning authorities and inactive environmental measures re-establish the light of day. Expensive employers' contribution reforms that have been judged ineffective and do not respond to labour market problems are introduced. The fixation at the rental right gives us construction subsidies and market rents in a nice association, when the main problem is that most people want to own their home but fewer and fewer can do so. It has become quite clear that when it did not go together on the last row on the last night of the negotiations, it is the welfare in general and the elderly in particular who get to pick up the bill. We knew that the ageing reforms shone with their almost total absence in both the 73-point programme and the declaration of government. But anyone who heard Stefan Löfven talk about making the election a referendum on welfare or heard Magdalena Andersson talk about the needs of welfare last week might not have imagined that the Social Democrats, when given the chance, would cut resources to the elderly. That is what is happening now in the amending budget. Money for more social content for the elderly in more shelters to break the loneliness that haunts so many older people, causes suffering and increases the need for care and care is removed. It is half a billion in performance-based funds to shorten waiting for a retirement home, but it does away with the actual performance requirement to arrange a place in time for the person who needs it. One might wonder whether the government does not see the problem of retirement homes, with loneliness and its health consequences. While the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats saw the problem of a lack of continuity of staff in the home service that affects both the elderly and the staff, the January parties saw an opportunity for savings, because now the effort to develop methods, spread good examples and train schedulers, which are so important for a functioning elderly care. This proposal existed. Of course, it could have been bigger, but it was included in the budget, decided by the Riksdag, and now it is abolished. Even the small grant for older people's sport – the sports movement, together with pensioners' organisations, was set in working groups to give more older people the chance to share sports with others – is now being removed. Psychiatry paid a capital injection to a state-owned company. The leisure allowance that would go to leisure activities for children in economically vulnerable families also takes away the Anuari parties. Free admission for adults at some state museums in Stockholm was more important. I said before that the January parties don't really want to take responsibility. That is wrong; they want to take responsibility for what is now being implemented thanks to the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. The last few weeks have been a demonstration of this responsibility. They take responsibility for the major investment in psychiatry. They take responsibility for the developed cancer strategy and the funds contained in the moderate and Christian Democratic budget. And they have announced that after an almost eternity delay they will soon be ready to take responsibility for the double queue billion. Of course, the same is true of police money and with the large contribution to the local government sector – 5 billion this year and 10 billion next year. The liability also applies, fortunately, to the tax reduction for donations to non-profit organisations. They are happy to tell us how much responsibility they take for the reform that is now being carried out on 1 July – thanks to our budget. It's okay. It is good for Sweden that these reforms and initiatives are now being implemented. But I would have liked to have taken responsibility for the implementation along with my former alliance partners. It would have been even better for Sweden. I can welcome the parties in the January agreement with the fact that there is much left to take responsibility for in the budgets of Moderates and Christian Democrats: increased driving forces to work, increased wage subsidy ceilings, more teaching time, investment in teachers in vulnerable areas, better social orientation and language opportunities for better integration, expanded education to overcome skills shortages, increased cut-off point for government tax so that it pays more to educate or work extra. The special payroll tax that employers pay for older workers is now being removed so that experienced staff can continue working a little longer, such as teachers, engineers and midwives. We also provide more resources to reduce children's groups in preschool. Let me give you a few tips on things that the government and the cooperation parties can take responsibility for next year. We have two reform programmes in our spring motion that I think would be important for Sweden to implement. One is a multi-billion dollar investment in elderly care. Today, their health and family life are threatened by sick leave and stress, as we heard at the Ecot this morning. In our programme, municipalities only get a full share of the money if they achieve clear goals such as active work to reduce shared tours, improved staff continuity, good employee satisfaction and participation, and reasonable management responsibility. In addition, we want to strengthen the possibility of professional development and career paths for the care staff with a re-initiated nursing lift with further training in, for example, dementia and multi-disease. We also want leadership training for senior managers. I believe that this is a very urgent reform to be implemented. It is both a question of providing resources and of making demands for policy development, because we cannot have the situation we have for the elderly's staff. Madam President, I would like We also propose a comprehensive and broad reform programme to enable more people, including those without extensive access to capital through, for example, their parents, to own their housing. We propose an automatic housing saving, start-up loan, review of credit restrictions, owner-occupied apartments, a rental purchase system and a major empty right reform. Furthermore, we want to reform the system of national interest, abolish building subsidies and increase housing subsidies. With all these reforms, we can pursue a social ownership policy for all those who have lower but stable incomes and who want to own but who today are driven into expensive newly produced rental apartments or an expensive secondary home. This risks becoming poverty traps that increase economic inequality in Sweden. We also want everyone who lives in vulnerable areas to have the opportunity to own their housing. We know that more own ownership can strengthen the local ownership that has proven to be a key factor in reversing development. As I said, there are a couple of concrete reforms to remedy social problems. It does not matter who takes responsibility for these reforms; the main thing is that they are implemented. Madam President, I would like We were prepared to take over the leadership of Sweden. That's not what happened. But we stand ready every day to take over government power. Sweden has many challenges and problems. We should not imagine that these will be easy to meet or remedy, regardless of government. It will take time and be difficult. But with resources, a clear focus and practical reforms, we can go in close touch with the social problems we see. We are doing this to strengthen work, transparency, ideality and community. We are doing this for greater freedom for individuals and greater opportunities for families, for the realization that businesses are not enemies but the basis of our prosperity, for solidarity that goes beyond cultural and national boundaries and for the view that society is infinitely larger than the public. We create it together, old and new Swedes, in communities such as families, associations, parishes and companies. It's a Sweden where we don't leave anyone behind, but we don't hold anyone back either. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the President's Bureau, the administration and all my fellow and counter-debaters for this semester and wish you a happy summer.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-105	Madam President, I would like A few months ago, a historical collaboration in Swedish politics began. The economic policy guidelines and the spring change budget are two concrete expressions of this particular cooperation. Through the agreement between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals, we are now back in a position where we can focus on developing our country and addressing the social problems we see. More people will come to work, welfare will develop and security will increase. Sweden will become fossil-free, and our whole country will develop. We want to create the conditions for a society in which cohesion and security go hand in hand with people's freedom and opportunities. That's how we're going to take Sweden forward. This should be done in a situation of uncertainty and a lot of difficult external factors. The development of the global economy, Brexit, the backlash of free trade and increased protectionism are some worrying examples that must be taken very seriously in our medium-sized, export-dependent and trade-oriented country. At the same time, the draft budgets are being dealt with in a situation where Sweden is on a stable basis. Stefan Lövven's first government pushed back unemployment and increased employment, which is now the highest in 25 years. Housing construction is at levels that have not been seen in decades. The state has clearly increased its resources to the important welfare, although it is not enough for the future. Climate and environmental work has taken major steps forward, and the strengthening of the police with the target of 10 000 more police workers has begun. At the same time, large deficits in public finances have turned into surpluses, and today we have a record low level of public debt. This means that we also have substantial shelters against bad times. Safeguarding the good state financial situation and giving the next government the opportunity to shape economic policy became the principles under which the transitional government worked. It would have been an important contribution to practice if more parties had joined these principles – even with what has been said earlier about all the merits that came instead. However, in a difficult parliamentary situation for Sweden, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats chose to use the budget process to kidnap the formation of government, so to speak. A thin reservation with a handful of pages of text and a few tables were put, with the support of the Swedish Democrats, against a well-prepared budget. Why am I bringing this up? Isn't it a thing of the past? No, for the consequences of this increase we have seen in the spring. In fact, the country's municipalities received less money for their important welfare when they actually needed more. In January, one of the country's largest authorities alerted thousands of employees throughout the country. How the business would be able to switch down as the money slowed down, there was no plan for in the napkin sketch. Before any solution to the government issue could be seen, they also chose to put the entire scope for reform for this year. In passing, they also made sure to widen the tax gap between pensioners and wage earners. In the same spirit, the Moderates and Christian Democrats have designed their spring budget option. In their joint reservation, they reduce resources to welfare. Now it's about the school and a much-needed investment in teacher assistants that is being removed. They continue to slaughter climate policy and reduce efforts to strengthen integration and get more people to work. The Moderates are also very clear with their long-term agenda. We heard Elisabeth Svantesson in the speaker's seat just now. They want to reduce taxes, and it will be financed by new cuts. When the Moderates talk about tax cuts and cuts, you're supposed to pull your ears off. They have tried this before; that is what they do when they get the chance. The result is usually budget deficits, dwindling school results and increasingly sparse staff in our common welfare. We are facing a major and important welfare mission in our country. We are living longer and the proportion of the population aged over 80 is growing rapidly. At the same time, we also have large groups of children. This requires resources for care for the elderly, health care, preschool and school. In this situation, talking about major tax cuts is tone-deaf, short-term and unsustainable. It is also unviable to pursue a policy of less gender equality that takes women further away from the labour market. Rethinking old positions may be difficult, but sometimes you have to realize that time has run away from you. No matter how hard the Christian Democrats try to launch the concept, the new bourgeois feminism, there is actually nothing new or equal in this policy. In the run-up to the European Parliament elections, the focus was on abortion issues. In economic policy it is a question of reintroducing the custody allowance, now under a new name. But the principle is the same – it is designed to restrict women's access to the labour market and thus their economic independence. This is not the way that Sweden should go. Madam President, I would like In the budget vote following the vote on the budget, the Swedish Democrats choose to give their support to this particular economic policy. After all, it was not out of concern for the elderly that they voted to widen the tax gap between wage earners and pensioners. It was not ordinary workers that were looked at, I suppose, when they voted in favour of mass notice of one of our biggest authorities. It was not children or older people that were thought of when the funds for the welfare of municipalities decreased. This is not a policy that the Swedish Democrats are only voting for in the hope of gaining influence on other issues. Also in their own budget, which they themselves have drawn up, tax cuts are the biggest effort. Apparently, this time too, it will be financed by a reduction in child benefit. That is how right-wing parties shape their economic policies. Madam President, I would like Right-wing conservative policies will never be good for Sweden. That is why we chose, together with the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals, to start a new partnership. I am not under the impression that we are four different parties who think differently on many issues. It requires compromises. But with the January agreement, we Social Democrats will be able to implement many of the important reforms on which we went to elections. I am talking about improvements for the country's pensioners, better schooling, expanded police, effective integration, more jobs and more resources for the welfare and efforts that hold our country together. With our amending budget, this work begins. We make sure that more people get into work, not least through investments in the local job tracks and faster establishment of foreign-borns. We safeguard the right of all girls and women to live free, independent lives and step up the work against honour violence and oppression. To give our children better opportunities to take in school education, we make sure that more adults can be employed at school. Madam President, I would like Society should be strong throughout the country. To the farmers who were so badly affected by last summer's drought, the government is now moving forward with additional support, because it is only when we stick together that our country can grow. Staying together, Madam President, is central to a functioning society but also to growth. In many different places the fear of increased inequality grows. On the international stage, actors such as the OECD, the IMF and the World Economic Forum have highlighted that growing gaps are a threat to economic growth and are at risk of creating social unrest. The discussion about the growing gaps is also taking place here in Sweden. I want to be crystal clear: our conviction, the conviction of the Social Democrats, if the importance of greater equality is strong. That is precisely why we never hesitated in the choice between sitting in the gallery and hoping for more mandates in the next election and, here and now, doing everything we can to get as much Social Democratic policy as possible. It matters to ordinary people that we will already be able to raise the pensions of those who have worked for a full working life with low pay. It makes a difference for the staff in health care, school and care when we move forward with great reinforcements to welfare. Children who start or are in the middle of their schooling cannot wait several years for a more equal school– they are entitled to a good education today. The most important task for us now is to meet social problems and build Sweden stronger. In order to do so, we have broken new ground together with other parties. With this budget, we are launching our work. I therefore call for the proposals in both reports of the committee to be approved. I would also like to wish the Bureau and Members of the Committee on Finance a pleasant summer after a long parliamentary year.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-138	Madam President, I would like I didn't intend to ask for a reply at first, but when Fredrik Olovsson was in the speaker's chair, I started thinking about a conversation I had not so long ago. I got a phone call from Söderhamn. There they are very concerned about the increased costs due to the reductions in the Employment Service. The municipality expects that more and more people need to come to social services and receive support instead of labour market policies. In his speech, Fredrik Olovsson rightly called on the Moderates and Christian Democrats for their insane economic priorities. It has consequences when you slaughter an authority in this way. Most of them have consequences for those who are far from the labour market and are most dependent on the skills of the employees at the Employment Service. What Fredrik Olovsson forgot to tell us was that he himself could have done something about this in the spring change budget. The government, together with its partners, could have chosen to return the subsidies that were withdrawn and thus prevent employees from being forced to leave, but above all that the unemployed are getting further and further away from the labour market. You chose not to, Fredrik Olovsson. There are consequences. In particular, it has consequences for those who are far from the labour market. But it also has consequences for municipalities with low levels of education and high unemployment. There are often municipalities in the countryside. Nor will any private coaches want to get there, exactly. So, Fredrik Olovsson, why didn't you put the money back to Arbetsförmedlingen? They were actually needed.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-144	Madam President, I would like In our amending budget there is also a return of money to be used precisely for labour market policies, for the groups furthest from the labour market and for the local job tracks that have proved important and function well in many parts of the country. Of course, among the four parties which are now creating this new cooperation, there are different views, including on this issue. Then it is a question of making the necessary compromises to enable the country to move forward. Then it must be said that we have not been satisfied with how the Arbetsförmedlingen has worked in the past either. There has been a recurring discussion on how to improve the functioning of labour market policies, so that no changes in labour market policies during this term of office were not the focus of the Social Democrats. Now it is important that this authority and its employees – those who remain after the big change – get the best possible conditions so that you can help the people throughout the country who need help and support to move from unemployment to work. It is a priority and an important task. I would also like to point out that precisely in our amending budget, which is very tight, given that the entire scope for reform was used by the napkin drawing budget, we are able to return a few hundred million to the important activity that will get not least foreign-born women to work.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-149	Madam President, I would like Yes, but apparently there were resources to further reduce taxes. Right? For example, you chose to remove employers' contributions, which is very ineffective economic policy. Sure, if you remove a large piece of bread, it might be good to put back a bit. But it doesn't have much effect. Fredrik Olovsson says that they may not have been so satisfied with the Arbetsförmedlingen before either. No, there is much to discuss about how to make it better. But slaughtering an entire authority with a few months' notice, altering its entire structure, closing 132 offices and warning several thousand employees has consequences. This has consequences for those who are most dependent on the services and services of the Authority. They will have to pay a high price now that they digitise because many of the people who are most dependent on the Employment Service are not really able to do it. But it is not that you are content to save a lot on Arbetsförmedlingen. You also seem to want to introduce some kind of neo-liberal experimental workshop there. From what I understand, at least by the Center's statement, Australia is some kind of role model. In Australia, the unemployed have become a kind of commodity for sale in an unemployment market. There, a great deal of money is paid out to completely the wrong companies, who are not performing the services they have said they are going to perform. But people who are far from the labour market also suddenly get a job, but the job just as suddenly only ends when the money has been delivered from the state to the company. I think that the Swedish labour market deserves a much better policy than this. We need a coherent labour market policy. Companies need a coherent authority to turn to. After this experiment, you will have to turn to many different private companies around the country for manpower. It won't hold.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-154	Madam President, I would like Ulla Andersson's criticism of how this authority has been handled by the budget decision here in the Riksdag in December is quite relevant. The criticism should be directed, as I did, to those who voted through that budget: the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. Then there are us and the parties that we can make up for taking responsibility for the situation we are in now. As I said in my first reply to Ulla Andersson, for example, we have returned resources to labour market policy to really be able to work with the local job tracks and not least to get foreign born women to work. This is probably one of the most important tasks that labour market policy can have today. This is an incredibly important task. I'm very glad we can agree on that. There are, of course, concerns when making a new system. There are risks. We have also seen great concerns in Sweden, under the bourgeois government, about making this activity work properly. You should not ship joint resources to companies that do not do their job or carry out purely criminal activities because you have poor control systems. It is awfully important for us to have control of all this when the new approach is to be launched. Labour market policy and national labour market policies are a central and important task, both for individuals to be able to get a job and for us to have a good and functioning labour market.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-158	Madam President, I would like There was a lot to react to in Fredrik Olovsson's speech. I choose to take this to heart in a happy summer. I'll try to do that in an appropriate way. However, one thing needs to be sorted out. Fredrik Olovsson said that with the moderate and Christian-democratic budget there was less resources for the well-being of municipalities and regions. That's not true. That is why I want to give Fredrik Olovsson the chance to correct himself. The question to Fredrik Olovsson is thus: Was there more or less resources combined for the municipal sector, care and care with the moderate and Christian Democratic budget?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-161	Madam President, I would like I am convinced that Jakob Forssmed knows the answer to that question. There was less money for the municipalities combined. But there was actually more money for the regions. That's what it looks like. You used some of the savings on the primary municipalities and the important activities carried out there, for example in the form of school, preschool and care for the elderly, Jakob Forssmed, and moved some of the money to the regions' also important health care. What you did was you took one hand with you and gave with the other to another part of the sector. That's the answer. To the municipalities it was less money. To the regions it became more. Then you should know that the previous government had already announced almost the entire addition to the regions that Jakob Forssmed is now taking credit for. He'd be happy to. I believe that we have a common task for the next parliamentary term. It is a real priority for the entire sector, both municipalities, regions and county councils, both elderly care and health care as well as school, preschool and upper secondary education. It will always be more important for us than reducing taxes. The question is whether it is for Jakob Forssmed.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-165	Madam President, I would like So there was more money for the municipal sector in Sweden. Then you can divide it in different ways, as Fredrik Olovsson does. We also contributed 3 1⁄2 billion to the primary municipalities in a general state grant. It's just for the government to pay out. We raised another 1.2 billion to care for the elderly. It is right that some other contributions to the primary municipalities disappeared. But overall, there was a strong addition of resources to the local government sector in Sweden. It is good that we agree on them. Fredrik Olovsson says: "Now we should not engage in tax relief, but we must provide more resources. But what happened in the spring change budget? The Social Democrats cut down over 300 million on the care of the elderly, who are so concerned about not having enough funds. You can be critical of our efforts. But then you can change them and do something else for the money or just make them a general addition to the local government sector. But the government doesn't. Instead, some tax incentives are being implemented, which are incredibly critical of and are unfortunately ineffective. They don't create the jobs you say you want to get. Politics is not connected at all. If there is to be a contribution of resources to welfare, it is necessary that it is the Moderates and Christian Democrats who rule Sweden. When you get the chance in the spring change budget, you are withdrawing money from the care of the elderly, Fredrik Olovsson.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-169	Madam President, I would like It is said by Jakob Forssmed, who last autumn was involved in removing just 2 billion who were targeted at elderly care. In our amending budget, we provide targeted support of half a billion more to the municipalities depending on how many older they have. It is money that goes straight out to nurses, nurses and all other important occupational groups in the care of the elderly. Then it will of course be less for all small and targeted efforts that means that Jakob Forssmed will decide in detail how the municipalities in Robertsfors, Katrineholm or Växjö will work. Of course, Jakob Forssmed knows that much better. I don't think so. I believe that we should ensure that the municipalities are given the opportunity to govern themselves to the greatest extent possible. The needs are different, although we have the same development in the rounddemography. It is true, then, that there was less money for the primary municipalities. Despite the increase in general state grants, you removed other contributions, Jakob Forssmed. You might think that's a good thing. I just argued because it's a good idea. The problem is only if you don't add more money but if it gets smaller; then the municipal commissioner usually thinks it's a bad idea. After all, it will be less money for the municipality to carry out this important activity. It is good that we can agree that health care should have more resources, which they received in that particular budget. We fully agree with you that those resources should come into being; they should even be increased. But I think Jakob Forssmed will be a little more careful in the future. When he says that the municipalities receive more money, he should also know that he has been involved in removing, not adding, resources from the important activities he was talking about now. I would like to repeat – I think it is important for many of us to do so – that we must prioritise welfare when we will have so many more older people in the coming decades.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-174	Madam President, I would like We must prioritise welfare, says Social Democrat Fredrik Olovsson. After they've been running Sverig e for five years, we know the result. In the election movement, we often pointed out something that the voters recognized, that the queues in healthcare have doubled and that the queues for child psychiatry have tripled since the 2014 elections. All that people recognize themselves in. It would be quite honest if the Social Democrats at some point – this is an excellent one – could take responsibility for the fact that welfare has actually developed in the wrong direction, despite the booming boom. But what do the Social Democrats do? Yeah, you do what you always do. You pull the taxidermist card. Fredrik Olovsson uses a large part of his speaking time to talk about Moderate tax cuts. But honesty in the debate would be good. What is the Parliament's decision to make today? Yes, some tax cuts proposed by the Social Democrats. And what is the Parliament's decision to make this autumn? Well, a big tax cut to those who earn the most. We're going to remove the valuables. Somewhere I wish honesty. Take responsibility for Sweden and the result that you have shown over five years! Do not use intimidation propaganda when you are going to use tax cuts in the meantime! Instead of telling the Swedish people how to improve their welfare! Tell us how to make sure that the queues for child psychiatry are short, so that you don't have to wait months out and months in, at home in a room, trapped between four walls with panic attacks and with deep depression. What our citizens want to know is how the Social Democrats can solve the issue. They do not want to be discussed and intimidated by the tax bench card.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-178	Madam President, I would like I think that this is a highly relevant objection to Moderates' vision of the future of major tax cuts when, at the same time, we see the great needs that will be in welfare in the coming years. Until the mid 2030s, this is a development that continues. We will need to prioritise very strongly between these important activities and other things, not least the tax cuts that Elisabeth Svantesson so badly wants. I myself am less interested in them and will choose welfare at every opportunity where I have the opportunity to influence politics in the future. We will, of course, have to compromise with other parties. But even then, the welfare and activities within it will be absolutely the most important thing for us Social Democrats. We showed this during the last parliamentary term when we were able to reverse developments. From the fact that there had been fewer employees in the common welfare, more people were able to work in health care, school and preschool. We also saw a clear turn in school outcomes, which was very important. We need to do the same in health care. In addition, just today we have shown how to proceed with psychiatry and address these important issues. However, more resources and efforts will be needed for a very long time. Of course, it's not the same in the whole country. Welfare has different conditions in different countries. Not only do we want to provide more resources to the sector as such, but we also want to ensure that it is a good and reasonable distribution so that the whole country can live. This applies to regions between regions, and it applies to municipalities between them. It is an important effort, and I hope that the Moderates will also want to support it once it burns. They do not usually see such a balance between the country as a whole and the regions and between regions and municipalities as a priority. Rather, they tend to want to protect their own municipalities in Stockholm's vicinity.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-183	Madam President, I would like It was again a speech that is mostly about the Moderates and not so much about what the Social Democrats want and intend to do. In fact, I have never proposed a reduction in military tax in this House. I think it is good that it is now disappearing, but I have never proposed such a thing. The Moderates and the Alliance reduced taxes for all who work, especially for those with low incomes. This led to higher employment. It was very necessary to increase growth. We have a thought about what we're doing. The fact remains. Fredrik Olovsson does not want to take responsibility for the welfare during the boom has gone in the wrong direction. What will happen when the economic cycle now turns back? It is also actually Fredrik Olovsson who proposes tax reductions for those who earn the most. The Social Democrats can never escape this. That is why I think it would simply be fair to put the tax bench card, with which they want to be intimidated, somewhere else until they have implemented their tax reductions. If they come up with a different policy later, they can of course continue to use it. They've learned this in Bommersvik. I believe that citizens want to know what vision we have for Sweden and how we want to implement it. The Moderates are clear about their politics. I told you about it in my speech. I wish the Social Democrats were more concerned with telling them what they want to do, instead of blacking out other parties in the Swedish Parliament.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-187	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Moderates do not want to talk about major tax cuts. Of course, they too see the great needs that will exist in welfare. There will be no talking around it when 80 - year - olds and other age groups need help, home care and care for the elderly. If, in the coming decades, major tax cuts are chosen, health care and long-term care will be affected. I believe that right now and in the years to come this is a central debate in this country. That is why we chose to be able to make substantial contributions to this important sector in the coming years. We have also agreed on this with other parties. This work must begin now. We need a better school, more teachers and more teaching assistants. The resources for this are in the budget we are talking about today. Of course, we also need to protect the pensions of the elderly and a lot of other issues, about which we will certainly have the opportunity to talk more about on another occasion. At the moment, however, we are very clear that Sweden is facing a demographic shift. It will be a very large group of older people, which must be included in all discussions. That's why it's a good idea to lay down the tax sinker trail. If Elisabeth Svantesson does so in the next debate, we will probably not have a tax debate either. Instead, we can talk about how we can continue to develop the common welfare, which is so important for people's security. This would not least be a reasonable response from those of us who are active today to those who have built this country.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-190	Madam President, I would like Sometimes we are called the January parties, sometimes the JÖK parties and sometimes the liberal opposition. Today we got Ulla Andersson's linguistic innovation 73-point gang. Dear child has many names! At least I am here now, and I would like to support the committee's proposal on the points we are debating today. The spring amending budget on which we have a position today is one of two points. It rests above all on four legs: tax cuts on jobs and entrepreneurship, investments in strengthening rural areas and green industries, strengthening environmental and climate work and investing in strengthening Swedish gender equality. I and the Center Party believe that this is very reasonable and important priorities for Sweden. The time we now enter, the summer time that comes, provides the opportunity for rest and recovery for some of us. I have noted that there will not be a single election in the coming autumn. So I'm going to take the chance myself. But summer is also a time when many take their first steps into working life. Summer jobs and extra jobs give young people the pride it means to earn their first money and get that first important line in the CV. The first job is the most important thing. What we are now doing, as one of the important elements of our amending budget, is to remove employers' contributions for those who employ young people up to the age of 18. It is done to lower the thresholds as much as possible to get as many young people as possible to work extra and to be able to work in the summer. We are very convinced that this is a wise priority for Sweden in the long term. The more people start working already in their early teens, the more it strengthens Sweden and does so in so many ways. This strengthens Sweden's young people's position on the labour market. This means that more people early get in a first foot. The sooner you can get a first foot, get your first line in the CV and get your first job, the faster you get your second, third and fourth job, and you can start earlier with your salary career that is so important in a working life. I presented this proposal a few years ago from here. At that time, I did so as a representative of the Center Party opposition party. Now it's a reality. We're lowering the thresholds to work. The proposal to remove employers' contributions for those who employ young people should be seen in a context. We also remove employers' contributions for those who get their first job. In addition, we have already announced that employers' contributions later this autumn will be further reduced in a reasonable way for Sweden. This means that we are creating ways into work for more people. We are removing obstacles to job creation in not least small businesses. It is in small businesses that the new jobs in the Swedish labour market are emerging. Madam President, I would like Our amending budget also represents a boost for all of us who believe in a living countryside. With this budget, we are filling up the drying aid that has existed since last summer's difficult drought. We call for the approval of this budget and this important effort, while at the same time keeping our fingers crossed because the weather this summer shows up more balance and gives at least a little rain, in just the right amount. The farmers, the forests and the groundwater level need it. But we don't just keep our fingers crossed. We are also taking a stance on future budgets, where we will need to take further steps to strengthen this part of Swedish business and rural areas. The points of the January agreement on a strong and powerful peasant package must be filled with content. Sweden's green industries still need fewer and simpler rules, lower taxes and more favourable conditions to continue to develop. I mentioned the groundwater levels, which leads me to the next shoal of important investments contained in this spring change budget. We are making a number of important investments in strengthening Swedish climate and environmental work. One of the initiatives is to strengthen and restore wetlands. This is an example of the important system efforts we now have to make to secure the Swedish water supply in all parts of our country. In too large a part of Sweden we currently have problems with too low groundwater levels, which means that people cannot use the most basic functions part of the year. This is not good enough. It requires social grip, hold and investment. A first small step we take with an investment of 200 million for strengthened and recreated wetlands. It is a way to create a more sustainable Swedish system for water supply. We are also making other important efforts, for example on negative emissions. We are filling up the solar cell support properly so that our households can assume their responsibilities in the climate change that we want to see and that is currently taking place in an explosive way. Madam President, I would like I also mentioned the efforts that are being made to promote gender equality. We often beat our chests in Sweden and believe that we are the world's most equal country. Yet we still have not had a Swedish female prime minister, even though in the election campaign I did my best to make it happen. It didn't go all the way. But we also have, in terms of Swedish gender equality, far more everyday shortcomings that need to be addressed and where efforts are needed. Such efforts are delivered in this spring change budget. I am proud of the reinforcements made by Sweden's women's and women's shelters. I am proud of the efforts against men's violence against women that we are now strengthening and ensuring in the long term. An active policy will be needed for Sweden to continue to be a country where men and women have the same chance and can enjoy the same rights and opportunities. This work must continue. Madam President, I would like A spring change budget can be as good as it wants – it's still a fairly limited product. In parallel with this debate, preparations are under way for the forthcoming full-year budget, which will be presented in quite exactly three months' time. Here we must take further steps to build a stronger, freer and more sustainable Sweden. The January Agreement has a number of points to be implemented by the end of the year. It is about further sensible tax cuts on jobs and entrepreneurship. It is about strengthening the general funding for the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. It is about investments for a safer Sweden through a strengthened justice system. These common ambitions of the four January parties – my favorite expression of those I initially drew – are well known, but will now be implemented and become a reality. That is an important condition ahead of us for the forthcoming budgetary process. As I said, the result will be presented after what we hope will be a nice summer. This term of office, which is still in its infancy, is hopefully not only a time of wise budget proposals but also a time of great agreements and reforms. We see a need for broad agreements when it comes to a new Swedish tax system – these were wise words from Elisabeth Svantesson earlier – a renewed housing policy and a long-term sustainable migration policy with broad support, to take some examples of the processes that are now being started. Here comes the ability of Swedish politics to come together and draw up broad compromises that will last over time to be tested. But I hope and believe that the eight parties in this House can rise to meet that challenge. That is exactly what Sweden needs. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by saying a few words about the local economy. This has been in the debate before, and it is very wise, because this is where we see some of the perhaps biggest challenges in the Swedish welfare society. It is at the local and regional level that the toughest challenges for the coming years need to be met. We have to face them in a number of ways. There is no way to cope with the major problems. We need to achieve increasing general state aid. With the January agreement, we will increase general state subsidies year by year. I hope that there will be broad agreement in this House so that the municipalities will have the security of planning that they deserve. But we must also realise that the basic method of ensuring that we have plenty of resources locally and regionally is that as many people as possible are working. We need a policy for more jobs in growing companies. It is not in the small companies that the prosperity of time is emerging. We also need to clear the rules. We often talk about regulatory problems in the case of small businesses, but even in the case of our small municipalities, too, there is a fairly proper regulatory flora that often leads to a decline in productivity and an administration that becomes more inefficient than it should be. Here we must do a job to give our municipalities the best conditions to focus on what is important and deliver welfare. These are some of the things that I will not only think about but also work for – to the extent that I will work; now it is a summer that awaits us. I would like to repeat what many have said before. I wish the committee, the cabinet, the Presidium of Presidents and our audience a warm, pleasant and restful summer. I'll see you again soon.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-211	Madam President, I would like I have two questions for Emil Källström. Källström said: Sometimes we are called liberal opposition. I would like to have some examples of this happening, except in the Centre Party Ucas. That was the first question. The second issue is housing policy. I know the Center Party as a party that sees the point of own ownership – with the freedom and security it can create for people and the empowerment it gives – and understands the importance of saving; a small savings capital can be used for example for a cash effort. I am a little concerned about housing policy in the January agreement. It's an incredibly strong focus on rentals. Construction subsidies are to be reintroduced, but only to rentals. This is something that Emil Källström has condemned about a billion times in this House. Now they will be reinstated, combined with market rents and the possibility of putting people in prison if they buy a rental contract black in desperation after a home. At the same time, we see examples of how analysts point to the fact that in far more Swedish cities than just the big cities, people with normal incomes cannot enter the land of owned dwellings. Instead, they are referred to expensive newly produced rental apartments or second-hand housing. This also has a very strong impact on the ability to save. You can save on average half as much if you live in a newly produced rental apartment as if you had the opportunity to buy a right-of-occupancy apartment. The question is: when will the reforms that will benefit owned housing and not just focus on rentals?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-216	Madam President, I would like Jakob Forssmed had two questions. I have an answer and a draft agreement. If Jakob Forssmed can show that even close to a billion times I have condemned the construction subsidies – I believe it is a maximum of 100 – I promise to present a list of who has called us liberal opposition and when. But Jakob Forssmed gets to deliver his list first. The question of owned housing is very important. I very much appreciate the commitment of the Christian Democrats to this issue. No party is as clear as KD that this is important. KD does this in a very good way. As far as the January agreement is concerned, it is quite true that there are far more points relating to rental rights. But that's because it's important too. We need a much freer and more flexible system for rental housing. Rental rights are important in an economy where you should be able to move to work and study quickly and where you need flexibility. Different people at different stages of life have different needs. Tenancy rights are even more inflexible today than the property owned. That's not how it should look. We have to solve that. The points of the January Agreement are taking a step along the way. With regard to the measures for more people to have access to property and greater mobility and reasonableness, there too, I place my hope, above all, in the tax review that will be launched and carried out during the term of office. We have to be honest and realise that very much of how the property works is about what taxes burden different aspects of building, owning and selling their property. A different mix is needed here. I believe that the best chance of this mix is precisely a broad tax review where the work in the little is started and will continue in the big. As far as the January agreement is concerned, it is primarily the tax side that I regard as important.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-222	Madam President, I would like I have a certain history of concluding agreements with Emil Källström. I am, of course, prepared to do so on this point too, where we both have to leave our excesses behind in terms of billions and liberal opposition. I'm prepared to make that deal. As far as the property is concerned, I think it is a bit urgent. It feels like the tax review is a bit of a fortune cookie that should have all the effects. When we open the note and see what it says, it should have solved all the different problems. There are tax dimensions to the problem of owned housing that need to be highlighted and reviewed. But there is also much to do here and now. We have credit restrictions that I mean need to be reviewed. Is it reasonable to have such a powerful mortgage cap when we also have a strengthened amortisation requirement that means that you own half of your dwelling after 14 years? We need to look at such issues in order not to continue to create those problems. I agree that renting is important when you're at a certain stage of life. But most people want to own their housing when they have knocked down their boposts and established themselves in the labour market. With today's policy it works very badly in more and more cities in Sweden. In addition to the second agreement, I would like to have a little agreement that the Center Party is at least doing everything it can to not just wait for the tax review but do what can be done here and now so that more people can have the chance, with stable incomes and when they pass a credit check, to own their housing.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-227	Madam President, I would like I think Jakob Forssmed asked for a fairly reasonable thing. Of course, I'm not in a position to say exactly when something is going to happen. It is the subject of many, long and tough negotiations. What can we do in the short and long term to get the most reasonably functioning housing market possible where we see the value of the property owned? There I am prepared to say that we will, of course, do everything we can to get those reforms in place as quickly as possible. I and the Center Party also see that there is reason to look at whether it is possible to find flexibility within the current regulatory framework. For some groups, it is quite restrictive to impose both amortisation requirements and a large amount of money on entry into the property. There is probably every reason to look at whether it is possible to find flexibility within the system and so on. Such positions have been taken by the Center Party, along with many others, in the past. We stand by that. I wish I could be clearer than that when something happens and so on. But I suppose that is what it is when you belong to the liberal opposition.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-232	Madam President, I would like Emil Källström and I share the vision and picture that it will be even better for Swedish companies. We know that businesses are the basis for prosperity. I also believe that we share the picture of what works and does not work in the Swedish labour market. We have a hugely strong labour market in many ways. But we also have high unemployment, including those born in other countries. We know that long-term unemployment is a problem for many and that young people without upper secondary school qualifications find it difficult to get in. So father so good. My question is about the reduction in employers' contributions for those under 18 years of age. If there is anything we know and have learned, it is that this type of targeted reduction in social security contributions does not have good employment effects. I'm a little surprised. Emil Källström would probably call it liberal politics. I call it center politics. They choose to reduce employers' contributions for a group of young people who do not really have much trouble getting in. Nor do I meet entrepreneurs who are calling for this reform, and it costs a great deal of money. We Moderates try to be careful in our budget movements to account for employment effects. My simple question to Emil Källström is: What employment effects do the Center Party and the four cooperation parties reckon that this employer's fee for 16-year-olds, which will be introduced on 1 August when the summer holiday is almost over, will have?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-237	Madam President, I would like We have high hopes for reform. We believe that we need to do everything we can to lower the thresholds into work for young people. The more people get that chance, the better, just as I said in my speech. However, we are very cautious when it comes to counting on employment effects or other types of dynamic effects precisely because it is very difficult to determine. Is there anything that occurs in year one, year five or year ten? There is very little empirical evidence on this. The closest we can get is when we jointly halved employers' contributions for young people during the alliance years. This reform came at the same time as a huge economic downturn. It was very difficult to accurately describe what it meant. There are those, not least on the left, who claim that there were no employment effects at all. There are other voices from the debate on economic policy which say that the situation would have been much worse if it had not been done. Unemployment had arisen, given the economic difficulties that were not materialised as a result of the tax cut. Various wise people come to different conclusions. That's it. Nevertheless, we believe that the hundreds of millions involved are balanced policies precisely because it is a tax reduction that goes to companies. We believe that entrepreneurship in Sweden needs reduced taxes. We want as many young people as possible to get a way into work. We therefore believe that this is a reasonable way of implementing the green tax shift contained in our amending budget. I am surprised that the Moderates are so much against a job tax reduction that goes to Sweden's entrepreneurs and benefits Sweden's young people. These were groups that until recently the Moderates were on the right side of.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-242	Madam President, I would like That's how you can answer when you don't have answers. I think it is extremely important, and I have made it clear many times, that we generally improve for Swedish entrepreneurship. I was very clear the other day in Today's industry that we do not want to see overall tax increases on entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship, which there are great risks for with an agreement we now see. Policy is still about prioritising and doing what is effective. I believe that both Emil Källström and I have visited hundreds and certainly thousands of entrepreneurs around the country, both small and large. I've never encountered anyone who said that it's a high threshold with costs to hire 16-year-olds and 15-year-olds. We should remember that most summer jobs are probably in the public sector. It will also take note of this. There will be a reinforcement in many ways. Nevertheless, it is important that we take care of how we use taxpayers' money and how we prioritise. That is why my question is still: what employment effects can it have? The other day, IFAU came up with a report. I think you should learn from history. Everything we did in the Alliance was not good, but very much was good. We reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. It was important for employment, just as Emil Källström said. But it is precisely the targeted reductions for young people that make it difficult to find significant employment effects. I am therefore surprised that the Centre Party is choosing this particular group when there are so many other needs and so great general needs for companies to facilitate employment. But this is a chamber where you have to think alike. We have four parties which will now vote in favour of the reduction. We will see if the employment of 15- and 16-year-olds will now increase dramatically and that it is worth the hundreds of millions that the Center Party has now pushed forward. I hope so. I could be wrong. My question was only about: what effect on employment does the Center Party see that it will have?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-248	Madam President, I would like We probably meet different entrepreneurs, because I meet quite a lot of people who want lower taxes on having people employed. I meet quite a lot of people who thought that the reduced employers' contributions for young people that existed before were good, because they meant that you could have more both extra- and summer workers employees. Now we are changing the reform and making it substantially cheaper and focusing precisely on people who are taking their first step into work. I think that's right. If we had limited economic policy to just doing things where we know in advance exactly how it would go, there would have been no RUT deduction and no ROT deduction. There would then be a great many of the job tax cuts that we implemented together in the Alliance that could not have been implemented because it did not know in advance exactly what effect they would have. But there are other arguments for lowering the tax: You might think it's good that Sweden's hard-working entrepreneurs get a little more money left to develop their business for. Perhaps it is good to lower the thresholds as much as possible in order for young people to get a foothold in the labour market. I think it is a good thing, and that is why I think this is a good reform. Of course, the alternative would have been to generally reduce employers' contributions by 0.00032% or something similar. But I think this will be a clearer signal to Swedish entrepreneurship: Anyone who wants and has the opportunity to hire a young person will now be able to do this in a substantially cheaper way. I find it hard to imagine a better timing to do this than now, when we go into a summer time and it's just thoughts for summer jobs that are in focus. That is why I believe that the reform to reduce and completely remove employers' contributions for young people in the labour market is a very balanced economic policy. It's good for our young people, and it's good for Sweden's entrepreneurs.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-253	Madam President, I would like There were a lot of words to describe an inefficient economic policy. Last Friday I was having coffee with a nurse. Her name is Lena, and she works in Alfta's home service. She really likes her job, but she's got two-day breaks a week. That means she gets to leave home at 6:00 in the morning. If she's lucky, and if it's summer, she'll have time to go home and turn back those hours in the middle of the day when she doesn't have a salary, and then go back to work until ten in the evening. It is very tiring, the fold is quite obvious when you have a working day that extends over 15 hours. Unfortunately, this is not an exception, but it is commonplace in the care of the elderly. In Gävle, where Emil Källström's party is in charge, savings are now being made on elderly care. At the Forellen retirement home, the employees must now be alone with ten dementias in a department corresponding to one working day of the week. It goes without saying that this is completely unreasonable. I don't think any of us think this is a way in which our elderly care should be conducted. This morning, a new research report came – there are usually such yearly – which shows that the minute hunt is very tiring, that the elderly are getting sicker and that they have less and less time to meet the needs of the elderly. Care is getting heavier. We had a state grant of SEK 2 billion aimed at the elderly in order to hire more people. It was not extended by the Moderates and Christian Democrats in their budget, and it has not been extended by the Center Party or by the 73-point gang. We know that those who are 80 plus will increase sharply, and that is to be welcomed. We know that many of the employees will retire and that staffing needs to increase. What does Emil Källström intend to do about it?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-259	Madam President, I would like First of all, I was criticised for using many words to describe an ineffective policy. I think it is a little too offensive to come from a representative in Sweden's economic policy who not only has the most inefficient economic policy but also usually has the longest speeches. But now that is not what the issues were about, they are about important things about how we implement municipal and regionally driven welfare. The example you describe, Ulla Andersson, with shared tours and a working day of 15 hours sounds absolutely terrible. It's not supposed to be like that. People should not have to have it in the Swedish labour market, and that is why we are gradually trying to create a more reasonable labour market for the women too – because it is often women – who work in the welfare sectors. The basic problem is that for decades this labour market has emerged with municipalities and regions as total monopolists. If I have wanted to work in welfare, health care and so on, there has been no other employer to turn to. Then the employer side sits on a very strong negotiating card and uses it in this way, for example. I believe that the person you describe should be able to choose between different private public and non-profit employers and thus get more reasonable terms that are suitable for this particular person. We need a more reasonable functioning of the labour market, and then we need a flora of employers. That is partly why we are in favour of freedom of choice and freedom of establishment in the welfare sectors. With regard to the second question, on how we strengthen local and regional welfare, my answer is, above all, to increase the overall contribution! The Left Party is... now speaking time is over.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-264	Madam President, I would like The Left Party is a party that does not believe that tax cuts solve the under-financing of welfare. In fact, I thought Emil Källström was aware of the working conditions in the care of the elderly. Kramfors, in Västernorrland, among others, even talks about starting to introduce three-part tours in the home service. I don't know if it's turned out that way, but it still shows where it's leaning. Emil Källström says that the solution is to privatise more. But I can tell Emil Källström, Madam President, that private companies have worse working conditions than municipal elderly care. That's how you make money. They have more fixed-term employees, lower staffing, lower levels of education and so on, even though we know that continuity creates quality in care for the elderly – that the staff has time for the elderly. I notice that Emil Källström does not answer the question of how he intends to finance elderly care tomorrow. You had no answer to that even if the post took two minutes. I look forward to the next two minutes, when Emil Källström will tell me how he intends to fund 150 000 more employees in care for the elderly until 2026 – and this only to maintain today's quality with shared tours or a single employee with ten dementias in a health care department.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-268	Madam President, I would like I'll continue where I was interrupted by the clock. What we need above all is increased general state grants to municipalities and county councils. It became apparent that when the Left Party now came up with some kind of response, and not just with a description of problems, it was another special-destined state contribution with all the problems it entails. That's not how we're supposed to work. We're going to give the municipalities planning conditions. The problem will not be solved by state subsidies alone, even if they wanted to. It will not be possible to resolve this only with tax increases, as the Left Party will certainly wish. It is quite clear that productivity development and the efficiency of local and regional welfare will be needed. We will have to solve this with new methods, new technologies and much more. Here too, it is possible to achieve efficiency improvements that mean better welfare per crown, as in all other sectors. Kramfors was mentioned as an example. It is governed by the Social Democrats and the Left Party. That doesn't sound good, either. I do not mean that all private employers are good, and I do not mean that all public are bad. What I mean, however, is that all good employers are good, and they should be allowed to work. All bad employers are bad, and they should be competed in different ways. This can be done through regulations, where we set an acceptable minimum level or by allowing hard-working women and men in care to choose the employer who gives them the best conditions according to their circumstances. I believe that we are building a modern, functioning business that is good not only for all of us who use and take part in welfare services but also for all those who contribute to them by working in these sectors. There we have a not unknown ideological difference, which I believe will remain despite my good arguments.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-274	Madam President, I would like We can see the sun shining out. But it's blowing too. I guess that's pretty significant, too, for our economy. A lot looks good. You can imagine other parliaments around Europe debating the nation's economy these days. We have a lot to be happy about. We have relatively high employment. We have low public debt. We have a decent growth. We have a banking system under control. This is not the case in all the countries of Europe, nor in the world. However, we cannot rest on any laurels over this. We've got a lot of work to do. We are now in the final minutes of this Parliamentary Session, the first during this term of office, which has brought about quite revolutionary changes based on the Swedish people's elections in 2018. People in Sweden have the privilege of voting every four years. Humans are never wrong. The citizens make their choice, and we in here have to deal with the conditions that are given. This resulted in a government based on a January agreement with 73 central points and quite a few liberal and important reforms for Sweden – I will come back to them – and a budget cooperation. That is where the Liberals have chosen to be included. It was not an easy decision; it was rather a very difficult decision. The content has many merits, but it goes without saying – as we heard earlier in the debate – that it is a compromise product. We've given and we've taken. However, we take full responsibility for this content. Liberals support this agreement all the way as long as all other parties do so, from the government and from the Center Party. As has been said, it has taken time. The hybrid we have here today is an M-KD budget supported by the Swedish Democrats, which has then changed into a slightly more changing spring change budget that we are now debating, with the long-term guidelines for economic policy during the term of office. This new reality is received with different emotions in the outside world. Many people are terribly upset about what is now happening to our country. Others feel that it offers great opportunities. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise sees that important reforms can now be launched that our country so badly needs, the service organisations as well. We'll do our best. A great deal of the debate so far today has been about the challenges we have to make the resources available. How are we going to get our welfare in place? How are we going to translate Swedish prosperity? Well, as we've been doing for a hundred years, from prosperity to prosperity. First you have to create, then you can distribute. When you listen to some posts here, it sounds like it's just handing out money. Sweden is not an ATM. Sweden must first earn and create prosperity so that we have something to take out and distribute with smart and sustainable taxes. We know that the structural reforms we need a lot are based on the need to increase Swedish productivity. It is the biggest challenge we have: to increase productivity in the country so that prosperity can grow. We can't live by making lattes, washing shirts or going around scrubbing the floor at each other's house. We must create a wealth that we can export. This is why entrepreneurship must be put at the centre of our attention. Different calculations are made on this. There is one from Statistics Sweden, in their Trends and Forecasts, which shows that by 2035 we will need 5.3 million people in work. Today we have about 4.7 million. This therefore needs to be increased by 600 000 people. Thus, the current population surplus of 20 000 or perhaps with a little luck 25 000 people per year will not be enough to meet the labour needs of 2035. It can only be solved with labour migration – or productivity development. This is really something that is needed throughout the public sector. So far we have had discussions about school, about care and care for the elderly. Here we have enormous challenges for strengthening productivity. The structural reforms that we are highlighting from the Liberals are, among other things, about labour market policy during the term of office. We will now take steps towards a more modern labour market. The investigation has been launched. We'll see how far we're going, but it's liberal input values that will bring change and create more dynamism and hopefully productivity in Sweden. The same applies to housing policy. We think more market is good. We look forward to that. We're working on two projects. One is the shift in taxation, the other is the idea of tax reform. We need to think about whether we are charging taxes today in the way that is optimal and wisest if we want to increase prosperity. I would like to remind you, as I usually do, that we sometimes fix ourselves here – especially from a certain point of view – on the fact that high tax rates give high tax revenues. That's not true. We can get higher tax revenues by people working more and by companies doing better. There will be capital gains; there will be VAT revenue. It also gives money to the treasury. It gives money to the municipalities. That is how we can create the welfare that people so badly need, increase security and create more equality. Tax reform is central. As early as in the January agreement, certain things have been laid down, such as the fact that we are going to go forward with reducing taxes that are particularly harmful to the Swedish economy. We need to be better at integration. It is a reform that is needed. There are no simple answers, but important and real solutions are needed that are sustainable. We have pointed out a great deal of this in the January agreement, and it is partly backed up already in this spring amending budget. Then there's the justice system. There is really no inequality in our country that is greater than the difference in access to physical security. Crime can strike blindly, but we also know that it strikes very unequally. The most vulnerable people are those who tend to suffer the most from crime. There is hardly any social policy reform, I would say, that would increase equality so much as to give us a great deal of security in the areas that are currently badly exposed, where in practice other legal systems have moved in and the Swedish has moved out. Not least, the reconstruction of the police is very important here. However, this must be followed by efforts across the whole chain – one should not say chain, but the other entities that are important: courts, prosecutors and prison services. This is before us during this term of office. Infrastructure and climate-smart transition including energy are important. I must confess, Madam President, that this work is extremely demanding. It is incredibly difficult to cooperate with the government. It does its absolute best, but a Swedish government such as the present has a number of officials, perhaps thousands. We don't have a lot of Liberals. We are working like hell to ensure that the January Agreement is implemented in the best possible way. It's important, and we'll try to deliver our part. Sometimes, however, you discover things where you feel: This may not have turned out very well. Maybe we should try to change this. For the Liberals, Madam President, one such issue we must find a way to deal with the tax on cogeneration. It has been mentioned here before. We should consider whether we can return to it and reverse it in any way. Let's get back to you on that. It is an attempt by the Liberals to show that this is complicated and that it is hard to see that everything can be perfect all the time. It has never been in any government or in this House, nor will it be. Sometimes you have to be humble. Madam President, I would like One can also mention digitalisation, the reform of the education system and the return of the school of knowledge, but finally, for time-winning, I will just point out that I think that overall we had good cuts in taxes in the budget. We got through a cue billion. And so it was the police, and there I think you should thank M and KD for indicating a direction. We follow up with continued efforts in prison care, LSS and teaching assistants. We just discussed cutting employers' contributions. You usually think that reduced taxes on work are good, and you can have higher taxes on other things, I think. And that is what nature conservation and environmental protection are all about. This is a spring change budget that we have never seen before. It has never been done this way in Sweden, but I am very proud that the Swedish political system stands stool so that the sun can shine and the winds blow. We can feel confident about the summer even if hard work waits for the autumn when a new budget is to be drawn up Madam President, I would like The Liberals would like to wish the Bureau, the Members of the House, the audience and all the officials of the Parliament a pleasant summer. I would like to conclude by calling for the committee's proposals to be approved in the two reports.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-298	Madam President, I would like These are interesting times. We have two parties that talk a lot, preferably about tax cuts. It's basically good. The other day in Dagens Industri, the Center Party's Martin Ådahl went out and told us that there will be tax cuts that are greater than the Alliance has ever carried out. It will be exciting to follow this. At the same time, we have heard Fredrik Olovsson use the tax bench card and warn. But that is not what I was going to ask Johan Pehrson about. In the Moderates' and Christian Democrats' budget, we provided money for health care – a queue billions of dollars – and we provided money for a cancer strategy and for the LSS. The problem with all these three parts is that it has taken time for the money to get out to the activities that need them. To the cancer strategy they seem to have arrived just recently, and the queue billions are due to arrive shortly. However, I would like to stop a little at the LSS money. They are necessary and important for those who have the greatest need and who have waited a long time now to get the right to help with probe feeding and breathing help. Even in the spring-change budget, the four parties are sending additional money. We support this, but the problem is that no matter how much money you spend, the law must be changed. Now all concerned are waiting for a change of law, but it seems to be taking some time. My question is simply: when will the legislation be in place, so that the money can come to all the people who need it so well?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-303	Madam President, I would like I can only say that this is extremely urgent. The whole idea of us being in this House is that we are trying to build a decent, transparent and, I think, liberal society where we benefit and where we help people to make life chances – people who do not otherwise get them. That is why we are taking tax money to this instead of reducing taxes or doing something else. I can promise Elisabeth Svantesson that we in the Liberals are really trying to push, but for various reasons it takes time. This is also the reason why a lot of things that are decided in budgets do not always come up, but it becomes funds over. But these are the means that are needed and that need to be translated into help for vulnerable people immediately. There is no other answer to give. No one is slowing this down. We can ask the government's representative. No one is deliberately slowing down, but we who represent the government must improve and ensure that what we decide here is implemented. This applies not only to this issue but also to others.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-306	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Johan Pehrson! This issue is not new. It did not come from the budget, but it has existed for a long time and has been discussed and debated in this House. Nor is that a new issue for the government. No brakes, says Johan Pehrson, but it doesn't seem to be anyone who really gasses and tries to increase the pressure. I hope, however, that Johan Pehrson and the Liberals are putting pressure, because it is unreasonable for the issue to drag on time for those who most need support and help and the change in legislation. The money is now in place through our budget and the added reinforcement, and then they must benefit these people, as well as the resources for the queue billions and the cancer strategy must benefit them as they apply. There is no point in the four parties in the agreement telling us about all the great bets they make if they do not manage to get the money out to the people who really need it.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-310	Madam President, I would like I agree, Elisabeth Svantesson. There is no need to rest even during the summer on this issue.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-311	Madam President, I would like I spoke in my speech about the breakdown of the Defense Committee. I would just like to point out, for the sake of order, that I do not believe that the responsibility for this breakdown rests either with Mr Pehrson or with the Liberals. I think we are touchingly agreed that responsibility rests heavily on the Social Democrats. If it was then right to leave the preparation altogether instead of staying and being as constructive as possible, given the rather abject attitude of the Social Democrats towards the Swedish Armed Forces, the scholars will have to argue about the future. That is not what my question concerns. Nevertheless, if the government is going to get any draft budget, it will get it with the help of Mr Pehrson and the Liberals. Otherwise, it will not, as we have seen already. The question is simple: If the government puts a budget bill on Parliament's table that does not deliver in accordance with the Defence Committee's report, how will the Member Pehrson and the Liberals' parliamentary group vote in the vote on the budget bill? Will you vote for it, will you vote against it or will you abstain?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-314	Madam President, I would like Everything has to be paid for. Prosperity increases, defence expenditure, the restoration of the rule of law and tax cuts – this must go hand in hand. In the economic policy guideline, we have set the spending ceilings for the next parliamentary term, and there is scope for making the necessary efforts in the steps that we can safely say have created some convulsions and problems in the defence preparation. In fact, I'm working on the bottom line. They're ready here. We will press for this because we in the Liberals are clear that freedom must be defended. It costs, but the alternative risks being even more expensive.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-316	Madam President, I would like Yes, everything has to be paid. We are in complete agreement on this, and that is why policy is so much about priorities. It is very possible that Mr Pehrson, and perhaps the Liberals as a whole, are prepared to do this type of priority, but it will not do any good if we do not put a lot of effort behind it. After all, as I said in my speech, it is we in Parliament who decide and have the financial authority. If the government puts forward a budget bill that does not deliver on these issues, Johan Pehrson, rise and just walk away! Leave them! It is quite clear to me that the Social Democrats are not prepared to pay the bill for the Defence Committee's report. The question is whether the Liberals will be a party of obedience to the Social Democrats. Is it possible to trust the Liberals in these matters? You have a strong weapon: get up, walk away and say thank you for the coffee and goodbye! Of course, what the Liberals want is interesting, but it is not enough just to want things. You need to make use of your budgetary cooperation so that it has clear and practical consequences in reality, and I am not quite so sure that you are inclined to do so.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-319	Madam President, I would like The future will tell. I thank Oscar Sjöstedt for the personal leadership coaching I get when it comes to how we should act on behalf of the Liberals; it feels safe! Of course I'll take this with me. I also take a very serious view of the situation we have in the world around us. I wish that this would not have to be done without the world developing as we hoped. But when different actors and powers – Russia, China – advance their geopolitical ambitions in different ways, America withdraws and we see influence operations of all kinds and infiltrators in parliament to and from there is much we need to protect ourselves from. There's no doubt about it. I therefore share the view expressed by Oscar Sjöstedt that this is important. But I would also like to point out that a great deal we are doing here, such as the pension agreement and that cooperation or defence, is not the primary part of the January agreement. I promise that we use all the power we can to influence Sweden in a liberal direction, and that means a strong defence. I understand that Oscar Sjöstedt does not want Sweden to move in a liberal direction, but we do.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-322	Madam President, I would like I fundamentally appreciate Johan Pehrson's humility in the speaker's chair when it comes to things not always going as you wish and being prepared to reconsider different positions. It's basically good. But it is clear that at the same time it is remarkable that Johan Pehrson already before the Parliament has decided on the amending budget wants to leave one of the proposals there, namely to increase the tax on cogeneration, which, of course, reinforces the electricity shortage we have in Sweden. This leads me to the question of processing processes, which Johan Pehrson himself was in the speaker's chair. I am also thinking of the LSS, which Elisabeth Svantesson has been talking about. The memo on breathing and probing as basic needs that came as a consequence of a committee initiative and of our budget did not turn out to cover all the time it takes. The actual nutrient transfer was not part of the time for basic needs. This was also not resolved in the Council of Law referral, but a further legislative proposal was prepared to resolve it. The same is true of some other basic needs, and I hope that this will be taken at the same time. When it comes to personal hygiene and all the basic needs, all elements should actually be included. But from what I understand, this is not being done, and there is no preparation process on these issues. Instead, there is a special regulation for breathing and gavage. I would therefore like some answers. What is the process now regarding the LSS? When can we get these changes in place also with regard to the other basic needs? I know that the Liberals and the Christian Democrats agree that these are incredibly important issues. But it is also about actually getting these things in place, and there the Liberals have far greater opportunities by their influence over the processing processes.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-327	Madam President, I would like This touches Elisabeth Svantesson's question earlier. Of course this has to be speeded up. The first part is taken separately, because it is most acute. However, we intend to declare that we should take a broader approach to this, and it is clear that the issue needs to be investigated. There is nothing to prevent us from speeding up that process further, but sometimes it is perhaps better to do something more right. You handle the most acute as we do now, and then you have to wait a little longer if something is unclear before starting an investigation to see how we will get the rest in place. I can't give you any other answer. It's hard to run a welfare country. When you have ambitions, it may take time. I regret that it takes time; I wish it did not. But it's a fact. As far as the first reflection is concerned, I have to say: yes, that is the case. I can stand here and be honest. I am here in Parliament to make Sweden better. We have all gained the confidence of the voters, and we have to deal with a situation. Then there are things that I might find very problematic, and we have to find a way to deal with them. Whether it's a public negotiation, you can interpret it as you like, but I see a problem here. I am also clear that this is a product of many wills, but the ambition of all parties behind the January agreement is to make Sweden stronger, safer and a little freer.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-331	Madam President, I would like There's nothing wrong with those ambitions. But it's also about the processes and the handshake. What comes out of the January contract machine? You get a little worried. Johan Pehrson is concerned about the tax on cogeneration but will vote in favour of it this afternoon and already wants to abdicate on this issue. I am also thinking a little about the LSS and how this issue was dealt with by the current government throughout the last parliamentary term. You have given them the opportunity to continue dealing with the LSS issue, with this result: continued uncertainty as to what should apply and continued processing processes that do not work. I understand that this is difficult for the Liberals. You're not in the government. But you can choose to enter the government so that you can take full responsibility for the processing processes. Or you can choose to do as stated in the January agreement. It's year by year. After the first year, you can cancel it, and so we can jointly take over the preparation processes in the Government Office with a policy of more security and freedom, not least for people who have very great needs and also need clear answers – not this uncertainty all the time, which has characterized the last years on issues of assistance and LSS.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-334	Madam President, I would like There are several leadership coaches in this House – I thank you for that. We will do our best to be better at pushing for the direction of the Liberals to deliver the welfare ambitions expressed in the January agreement. I can promise you that. I can even go as far as trying to get special employees who are just going to do this. The whole idea of the January agreement is that it will be delivered in all areas: enhanced security, long-term strength for Sweden, the transition on climate issues, but also the welfare ambitions that are there and are an expression of standing up for the most vulnerable, namely the group we have just talked about.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-336	Madam President, I would like After listening to Johan Pehrson's speech in the debate, I can see that Johan Pehrson and Emil Källström should take each other in hand and go out and practice a number of days in the care of the elderly. They may then realise that it is not efficiency requirements, productivity developments or new technologies that are needed to improve working conditions, but precisely more resources. But this is not what I was going to bring up with Johan Pehrson, but the aid. It is important for our two parties and something that we have in common. But in the amending budget, you are removing 789 709 000 from aid. Why, Johan Pehrson?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-338	Madam President, I would like We do this because we use the regulatory framework that exists to partly fund the ambitious development policy that Sweden has had for many years. It is a basis for being liberal myself. I am proud to think that a starving person is less a brother or a sister more. This whole idea is based on solidarity. But we have the opportunity to help people not only where they are in need right now. We can also help people when they come to Sweden. Then, according to UN rules, part of the aid can be used to pay for those costs. I believe that refugee immigration, which means helping people in need, unlike labour immigration, which is usually for us to get help not least within our care or within entrepreneurship in Sweden, is primarily a fairly large cost. It is reasonable to make that statement, and we have done it now.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-341	Madam President, I would like Counting off 789 million does not mean fewer starving people around the world, but rather more. Sweden is a very rich country that is able to receive people on the run and should do so. I believe that the refugee policy we are pursuing today is a policy of shame. What Johan Pehrson says is: This is what we do because the regulations so allow. The regulatory framework is not designed in such a way but is very stretchable. Sweden has received criticism for stretching it very much. However, according to Minister for Development Peter Eriksson, this money is being taken away to finance reforms agreed by the 73-point group. But that is not true, Johan Pehrson. It is not to finance your reforms that aid is being reduced. Is Peter Eriksson therefore out on a bicycle in the interview in Ekot, or does he have any other insight or explanation that the Liberals do not share?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-344	Madam President, I would like I don't want to review Minister Eriksson when he's not there. However, there are times when I can do so, I can say. How he exercises his leadership and takes responsibility for the agreements he entered into may stand for him. But I can see that in the resources that we have set aside in our aid budget, there is an opportunity to make a bill against people fleeing here to Sweden, at a cost. But as usual, I wish no one had swallowed the world and no one had to escape, because that would be the absolute best thing. Ulla Andersson wants to increase aid and thinks that there are far too few people fleeing here, and she wants to increase the resources in home care and care for the elderly in Alfta. How will it be paid? The usual answer is that the rich should pay. Anyone who can count knows it won't last. We can only pay for welfare in the future by growing Sweden. If there is anything I have as my only goal, it is the figure 2 – 2 percent forward. Sweden must have grown. In this way, we can best meet the challenge that lies around us in terms of welfare.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-348	Madam President, I would like What kind of society do we want? Does this spring change budget bring us closer to our visions of a good society? Can we even know that? For a long time economic policy has centred on the very limited and problematic measure of growth. It is not enough now that we are developing an economic policy that achieves the various objectives we have set ourselves. I would therefore like to draw your attention to a few pages of the bill that many people miss, namely the monitoring chapter. There is now a broader follow-up of social development in the form of new measures of prosperity. There are a number of indicators, and one of these, which caught my attention, was low economic standards. In fact, the proportion of people living with low economic standards in Sweden has increased in recent years. This tells us that society's ability to meet weak groups needs to be strengthened in the future and that the labour market needs to be made more inclusive. Long-term and clear information to municipalities and county councils that there will be money in the form of general state grants to all the essential tasks that they give us all is a very important issue in the future. It is crucial to a well-being that everyone can trust. Developing new indicators of prosperity is one of several important tools to make possible the world's first fossil-free welfare state. Madam President, I would like Taxing emissions works. We know that general taxation is the most effective way of reducing emissions, but we still have a long list of exemptions and subsidies for emissions. We need to clean up the subsidies. We must stop supporting outdated technology and destructive habits. It's time to stop curling the emitters! The parties behind the January agreement have started work together in a very good way by removing two environmentally harmful subsidies already this year. The reduction of environmental taxes on cogeneration and mining will cease. The airline tax will remain. During the term of office, we will make a green tax exchange of SEK 15 billion. It will give us the opportunity to put out more fossil subsidies. It is fascinating to see there are so many, not least moderate representatives, who stoically take the fight for Sweden's last coal power plant. Imagine being able to look your children in the eye and tell them that you were fighting to get coal burned in Stockholm for a few more years and that you didn't give up at the end! I choose to stand on another side of history. Madam President, I would like Sometimes I face the argument: Environment, let's not argue about that! It's such a big question, so can't everyone just get along? That kind of argument leads the idea wrong and puts fog curtains over the major political conflicts that exist in environmental policy. The killing of the environment, which the Conservative parties got through in Parliament, is a sad reminder that there really is no consensus in environmental policy. During the spring, the economic policies of the Moderates and Christian Democrats have had an impact. Protection and investment in valuable nature have stopped. Environmental monitoring and inspections have been reduced to a sad minimum. So this is about the pursuit of companies that commit environmental crimes. Entrepreneurs who had planned investments with the support of the Climate Centre had their plans overturned. Houseowners who wanted to put solar cells on the roof ended up in a long queue, and landowners with species-rich land have not been able to find out about compensation. In several cases this has aroused the anger of bourgeois debaters. It is as if the connection between the removal of money and the cessation of activity comes as a surprise. The Moderates and Christian Democrats had a good chance to be calm when they saw the consequences. But no, they're holding on. They really want to slaughter Sweden's environmental work. It is the environment that will pay for the tax cuts. Madam President, I would like When we vote later today, we will ensure that the historic slaughter of the environmental budget by the Moderates and Christian Democrats is historically short. We're saving the Climate Tree. We ensure that the work against eutrophication in the Baltic Sea is strengthened and that landowners with species-rich areas can receive compensation. We secure and stabilize the work for access to clean water. The creation of nature reserves will start again, and the work on environmental monitoring and conservation will receive funding. With the spring rescue budget, we are recreating an environmental policy worthy of the name. Madam President, I would like The goal we have set is for Sweden to become the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. It won't happen by itself. This requires large and, above all, different types of actions that interact. If we listened to the economists who say that it is enough just to make emissions more expensive and that it is expensive to pollute, we would leave it to everyone to create the alternatives. When I stand at the pump and just want to get away and get to the Midsummer party, I cannot take responsibility for the expansion of charging infrastructure across the country. It makes completely unreasonable demands on the individual. We have to do this together. And that is also why many people feel threatened by such measures. It is only when there are working buses that people can choose them instead of the car. When the night trains can be trusted, they become an alternative to the flight. When solar cells are available at reasonable prices, many can choose to produce their own electricity instead of buying electricity from coal power. We must face the climate challenge together. We do this with a combination of investments and environmental taxes – a balance of whip and carrot. It's the combination that creates the transition. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposals in both parts and also take this opportunity to thank you for my first semester in committee. I wish the chairman of the committee, my committee colleagues, the House, the Chamber, the Chamber, the President and, not least, the Minister for Finance a good summer! I will go out and enjoy the beautiful Swedish nature, and I hope that many of you will also have the opportunity to do so.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-363	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to ask Karolina Skog about a single issue in the amending budget concerning culture, which is one of the responsibilities of the Green Party. It's about Musikaliska, a culturally-historical, very valuable building. The house was built about 140 years ago and was the first building in Sweden to be built for concert purposes and, I believe, the second in the whole world. The house was originally used for higher music education and for the whole of Stockholm's music life. Here Birgit Nilsson and Jussi Björling have received their education as well as many other major Swedish artists. The first Nobel Prize was also awarded here. The house is still just as important. Here Stockholm County is now home to Blåsar Symphony and Länsmusiken in Stockholm. Here, Stockholm County's young musicians, the Royal Academy of Music and the National Association of Folk Music and Dance. This house has about 90 000 visitors per year. Here, amateur musicians meet professional musicians. This is where records are recorded. Here, cultural schools, music schools and others participate in a real concert hall. The house is therefore very important for the music life of the region. Now the government and the Green Party are planning to sell the house. It shouldn't be done. Why do you want that, Karolina Skog?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-369	Madam President, I would like I shall be very honest: I am not familiar with the question put by Ulla Andersson. It is an issue at a very detailed level in the area of the Minister for Culture. I can take it upon myself to simply ask my colleague in the government and come back, but I have no answer now. I'm not read in this section. We have, of course, a common passion for cultural work and local cultural work, and I would like to take this opportunity to mention that we are now re-establishing the extremely important support for the cultural school that we were involved in developing when we worked together on the budget. I am pleased about that, and I would simply ask to come back to the second question. You shouldn't be guessing in the speaker's chair. I never do.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-372	Madam President, I would like I respect that. You shouldn't be guessing. I think it is good that support for the cultural school should be reintroduced. I'm very happy about that. On the other hand, I am very sorry that the Environmental Party in Stockholm is involved in cutting down a lot at the cultural school. As for this music house, there is a roll call that has collected thousands of names. The house has a very large place in very many people's hearts. Yet it is part of the amending budget. It even has its own squeeze, where the government wants the parliament's mandate to be able to sell this house. I hope now that Karolina Skog will raise the issue and work to ensure that the house will not be sold. What happens to music life? If there is a private host, rents may increase so much that you cannot afford to remain. Maybe someone wants it for a completely different business. I would like to send a message to the Green Party and the Minister for Culture to reconsider the question once more. The house should not be sold. It has a cultural historical value. Above all, it has a huge place in this region's music life, not least for children and young people.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-377	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Ulla Andersson very briefly for drawing my attention to this point. I shall inform me immediately after the debate.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-378	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by giving Karolina Skog credit for the great commitment she has to environmental and climate issues. It's admirable. On the other hand, I cannot give credit for the environmental party's and government's climate policy, and neither do the Institute of Economic Development, for example, when they judge much of the policy as ineffective. Karolina Skog uses the word Nevertheless, I think it is good that anyone who listens to the debate and reads the Minutes knows that the Christian Democrats and Moderates' budget was the second largest climate and environmental budget that has ever passed the Swedish Parliament. The Green Party and other parties want to call that climate slaughter. That, of course, was not the case. It's a bit like when I discussed with Fredrik Olovsson earlier: When you can't achieve results, you use the big, strong words instead. We will never compete with the crowns if they are not effective. What is being done should produce results. What we also did but which is not visible in the environmental and climate grant is the large amount of climate aid. That is to say, we are also investing resources in countries where emissions are at their highest. Sweden accounts for 2 per mil of global emissions. We know that there are major emissions in other countries. Therefore, we will work effectively in Sweden and also help other countries. I would like to come back to this with results and ask a fairly simple question to Karolina Skog: Have emissions increased or decreased during the Green Party's five years in government?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-384	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Svantesson, for taking up Konjunkturinstitutet's review of politics! I commented precisely on that in my speech and made it clear that I do not believe in unilaterally using environmental taxes as a tool for creating environmental change. I see it as one part, along with large investments. What the Institute of Economics then says is that we are going to increase the overall CO2 taxes very significantly. If Elisabeth Svantesson believes in their advice, I would like a comment if she shares that picture or if she only reads half the report. Then, in the debate, we are very clear about developments. One of the indicators I'm talking about is carbon dioxide emissions. We have had a very strong economy in Sweden in recent years, and we still have the link between economic growth and emissions in Sweden. We have not managed to break that trend. In a boom, emissions are still stable. Unfortunately, this is a success, because we have not gone further than that. It takes time for the measures that we have come up with to have an effect. Several of them only started to operate at the end of the last parliamentary term. However, it is extremely important that we actually reduce emissions in the future even in times of strong economy.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-388	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, it is good to see that emissions have not been reduced. That is also the result of five years of the Green Party in the government. Prosperity can be used as an argument for it. Of course, there is a difference between low and boom, but in the eight years of the Alliance, emissions fell sharply. It was not just about a recession in some of those years, it was also about effective climate policy. It's important to make a point. I believe that if we are to resolve the climate issue seriously, and it is urgent, we must also make efforts that, here and now, play a role and have an effect. As far as climate taxes are concerned, we agree. We already have high taxes, for example on petrol and fuel. But there must also be a balance here. I believe that it is impossible to continue raising these taxes as the Green Party wants to do. There must be a balance for all the people who live in the countryside or outside a larger city and who are dependent every day on the car to get to work and be able to drive their children to school or to practice. It is not fair for the rural population to draw the full economic weight of the Green Party's climate policy. There must be a balance. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the Green Party recognises what was the basic issue. It's honorable. After all, the Social Democrats have still not recognised the weakness of welfare over these five years. Emissions have not decreased. They should have done so in view of the high tone of the Green Party. Calling the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats for climate slaughter is once again nothing more than strong overtones when you yourself fail to achieve results.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-394	Madam President, I would like I find it interesting how to selectively use such a serious institution as the Konjunkturinstitutet. Elisabeth Svantesson refers over and over again to parts of their report but ignores the part that actually recommends very powerful increases in the CO2 tax. All in all, this means saying no and not introducing a new policy of your own. The largest and clearest part of the budget that went through last autumn is that appropriations are being cut very strongly in the field of the environment and specifically in the area of nature conservation. Those most affected by this are landowners who have high natural values on their land. They have been most affected, and it has clearly been a slaughter. Elisabeth Svantesson also points out that it should not only be the individuals in rural areas who pay the CO2 tax. Yet today she says that the mining industry should be saved by not paying, but by paying much less CO2 tax than the individual. I think that's wrong. I think that industry should pay as much and that it should also contribute to the costs of its emissions. Elisabeth Svantesson does not think so. She thinks it's right that the mining industry has a discount and pays barely a third of what we ordinary people pay. I want to correct that difference here, now and today. Then we are taking a step towards a fairer climate policy.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-397	Madam President, I would like Welcome to the Finance Committee, Karolina Skog! It is nice to have you in the Chamber as a co- and counter-debater. It is important, as Elisabeth Svantesson pointed out, that the budget we presented was, after all, the second highest in terms of environmental and climate investments. We say no to the tax on cogeneration, but we accept mining reductions. At least that's my memory, and that's how I want it. I also think that is clear from the documents. As far as the compensation to landowners is concerned, it was not at all our intention that they should be rid of the compensation, but rather they should be rid of the legal uncertainty that has long been affecting the landowners who have carried out the key biotop inventories. That was our purpose. It is good that you are adding the money, and we support it. They're supposed to have their money for the trespassing on their land. It's important. There are some other things we do that I think are good, but there must also be efficiency. You could say that you should implement everything that KI says. Yes, you have to consider that, but you also need to take climate action. They're effective. There is criticism, and there are various discussions. But I was going to ask you something else, namely aid. I think it is a good thing that we basically have a consensus that Sweden should provide high and effective aid of 1% of GDP. However, I am a little concerned about the reduction in aid of 700 million in increased bills presented in the spring change budget. At a time when more and more donors in the world are withdrawing, where we see increased nationalism and increased focus on just their own country, I would like to see another policy. I also think it is a problem that the accounting of why and how the settlements are made is completely non-transparent. It cannot be reviewed or evaluated. How does the Green Party view this forward?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-404	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by commenting on this by not saying that the landowner would not lose his compensation. That is exactly what I mentioned in my speech. It seems to be surprising that taking the money out of a spending area means that that money does not reach out to our society. In fact, that is what it means: If you cut the appropriation for nature conservation, there is no money to be distributed to land with high natural values. The connection is quite direct; it is essential to be able to anticipate this. It is good if you can stand here and admit that it went wrong and that we can now correct this together. But it is significant to be surprised that conservation funds are of great benefit in various ways around the country. I have great respect for the fact that aid is unclear and difficult to understand. I am the first to admit this, because there are several things happening at the same time. We are presenting a spring amending budget, but there are also changes in the calculations of the settlements made in accordance with international regulations. All in all, this has created a lack of clarity. I can say that when we write the autumn budget we should have gone further in those parts, and thus the overall picture will be clearer and transparency will come into place. Jakob Forssmed is absolutely right that this should be the case. I would also like to confirm that this is not a reduction in the ambition of aid. The commitment of the Green Party to aid to the poorest and to be used for climate change around the world remains.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-408	It is wonderful to listen to a committed debate, but I would like to remind you of the rules, namely that we are speaking through the President and not pitting each other. That goes for both of us.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-409	Madam President, I would like There are different things about the preparation process. Some things are normal amending budget management. If you stop a biotopinventory and therefore also stop money for it, but there is an unanticipated backlog leading to further payments, you change it in an amending budget. It's good that the government does that. We would have done the same if we had been in the government. That is exactly how an amending budget is to be handled. It's a typical thing you actually need to do. There are several such things. I would gladly admit that we also did some things that we would have changed afterwards if you had not done so. That's good. That's where we can agree. It is complicated to understand how aid is deducted. I've been working on those questions for years. I understand how the systems work. But I can't even examine what you've done. That's the problem. Well, then you'll have to wait to make the settlements until you can account for how you've counted. Then we can have a serious debate on whether it is a reasonable settlement, whether the reception of refugees has increased much that justifies the 700 million – they have not – whether it is the new OECD/Dac rules or whether it is an internal agreement in the Government Office. The Government seems to be leaning towards that; now the finance said this, but this autumn it is our line that applies. This makes it impossible for Parliament to examine how you act on a budget line of SEK 700 million used to finance other reforms. I do not think it agrees that we cannot even discuss the reasonableness of this. Please come back this autumn, but the problem is here and now when we are going to make decisions this afternoon.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-414	Madam President, I would like What has affected landowners is not primarily extra money linked to key biotopes, but it is the slaughter of the basic environmental grant that has direct consequences for individual landowners. Then you might think that you would take some other part of the environmental grant. But we usually say that all parts reach out in some form to private landowners, entrepreneurs or individuals who make contributions to the environment. Everybody does. It's about who we're gonna take from. I have great respect for and think it is not ideal that it is not yet quite clear that it is a question of changing international rules that are being implemented in the legal order, and it is a spring amending budget that does not fully address this. It will become clearer when we present the ordinary budget in the autumn.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-417	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking you for an interesting and in many ways clarifying debate so far. Based on a difficult parliamentary situation after the 2018 parliamentary elections, old positions have been reconsidered and new collaborations have come into being. The Government has initiated cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals, where we together take responsibility for Sweden. That is necessary, because we are faced with major tasks. Care queues need to be shortened, pupils need to learn more in school, foreign born people need to get to work, climate goals need to be met and crime combated. This is the basis for the January agreement and for the spring economic bill and our amending budget presented by the government in cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals. This product is in stark contrast to the sketchy budget voted by the Moderates and Christian Democrats, supported by the Swedish Democrats, at the end of last year. It was a draft budget with a clear overriding objective, namely to enforce substantial tax reductions. In total, the tax was reduced by SEK 20 billion. The fact that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats in any given situation prioritise tax cuts above all, before the responsibility for the state's finances or reforms that build welfare strong, is not news. But the way they did it this time is remarkable. In broad interaction between the parties in this House, principles were drawn up for the presentation of the budget when there is a transitional government. One principle was that the starting point should be that a new government should be able to make its mark on fiscal policy. We can now see that this principle was easy when the right saw a chance to impose major tax cuts instead. That's not how you take responsibility for the country. Madam President, I would like In the election movement, the Moderates and Christian Democrats promised to remove the higher and unfair tax on pensioners that they imposed when they were in government, i.e. the so-called pensioner tax. But what did they do in their first post-election draft budget? Through the napkin sketch they pushed through together with the Swedish Democrats, they widened this gap by an additional 3 billion instead of closing it. Once again, we will find out what the right wing priorities are when they get the chance. Promises to the country's pensioners are easy to weigh when one wants to push through major tax cuts again. The budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats as a whole allocate ten times more crowns a month to the one who earns the most compared to the one who earns the least. Again, the gap between employees and pensioners widens. We Social Democrats believe that it is indecent that the people who have built up the country of which we are so proud should receive a special penalty tax. The pension is deferred salary and is to be taxed as salary. For us, it is obvious that those who have a long working life behind them should not pay higher taxes than those who work. In fact, in many other countries of the world, the opposite is true. It is about standing up for a principle, namely that wages and pensions should be taxed equally. But the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats say one thing to the country's pensioners before the elections. Then when they get the chance, they do the opposite. Madam President, I would like Global climate change is the destiny of our time. The Parliament has decided that until 2045 we should not have net greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere. To achieve this goal, work on this must be done in such a way that everyone has the opportunity to be part of the solution. But the Moderates and Christian Democrats chose in their budget reservation to carry out substantial cuts in the environmental and climate budget. The contrast with government policy is clear: where the right chooses to slow down, we choose instead to increase it because we see that economic policy must contribute. We want to make this transition to a climate-smarter society. But we want to make it so that everyone can be involved in this necessary transition, where no one should be left behind because you have low wages or live in the country. It is precisely because climate change is absolutely necessary that we must make it in such a way that it has reasonable consequences for each of us, otherwise it will never be accepted. The fact that you and I choose climate smart when we stand in the store looking at the goods will always be an important part of the transition. But responsibility for the conversion can never be left to the individual alone. The greatest responsibility must be assumed by politics. That is why the right's cuts are so serious, and that is why, as part of our amending budget, we made sure to devote a great deal of resources precisely to the environmental and climate transition. Madam President, I would like The fight against crime and terrorism will continue to be strengthened. The police and the judiciary as a whole need to have additional resources to deal with serious organised crime, to have a high level of preparedness against terrorism and to ensure the security of people's daily lives. The fight against crime has been intensified by the greatest contribution of resources to the police in the 21st century, while the government has strengthened the rest of the legal chain. Twice as many are studying to the police today compared to what it was like during the year of the alliance government. Until 2024, the Police Authority will have 10,000 more employees. But the fight against crime is also about ensuring that our welfare systems are not abused and that we can be sure that the tax we pay is used for what it is intended for. That is the foundation of a welfare state and for us also to want to pay taxes. In this perspective, welfare crime and tax evasion are something that is extremely serious. This is particularly serious in the case of serious cases where criminals are financing organised crime with tax money. It not only weakens public finances, but it fundamentally destroys our society. It damages free competition. Ask any serious trucker, or any construction firm or restaurant, what it is like when the competitors are not doing the right thing and thus have completely different conditions. It also damages trust between people. If you want to use big words, it is basically a violation of the social contract. Because why should I pay taxes when others don't? Confidence in the welfare society and our trust in each other is a strength for Sweden compared to many other countries. This is how we have been able to build the welfare state that characterizes Sweden. That is why the government is working methodically step by step to combat tax evasion and welfare crime. We need to know that the money we pay in taxes goes to welfare.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-437	The way to continue to secure prosperity is a policy that provides strong driving forces to work and better conditions for innovation, exports and job creation. That is how we ensure a continued high level of employment among both women and men. This policy also gives the muscles to meet the investment needs that Sweden is facing in the coming years. In parallel with responsible fiscal policy, the government has during the previous term been able to make major investments in health – over SEK 35 billion in health care, school and care. Now 100 000 more people are working in welfare. But if welfare is to be secured for the future, more will be needed. Up to 2026 and coming years, thousands and thousands will have to be employed in health care, care and school. This is a 10% increase in staff by 2026. This is one of the most important tasks of the next parliamentary term. We need to train and hire child nurses, teachers and nurses. This is important because in welfare there is an incredibly strong and redistributive force. It is from the Sweden we know is deleted. We pay taxes during our working years. Then we get back when we need it – when we are children and need preschool and school, when we train, when we get sick or when we get older. A big benefit for welfare is that we now have a strengthened public health. It also makes us live longer and healthier. During the next two terms of office, the large 40th-century litters will pass the 75th and 80th eras. These people have the right to a well-being that is adequate. They've built the country we're so proud of. This means that we will have to prioritise hard in the coming years in order for more resources to go to welfare. And we must use the money that goes there as smartly as possible so that the money does not go away to expensive consultants, short-term market solutions or poorly executed procurements. But it is clear that if our elderly are to continue to receive high-quality care and care, to which they are entitled, we must devote a great deal of resources to it. Those who say, instead, that we are now going to implement very substantial tax cuts are, of course, obliged to answer. What about the quality of care? Madam President, I would like With this budget, we are taking a first step towards the implementation of the January agreement. Step by step, the government and the cooperation parties will tackle social problems. With the Center Party and the Liberals, the government wants to create the conditions for a society where cohesion and security go hand in hand with people's freedom and opportunities. Jobs will increase, school knowledge will increase, care queues will be shortened and the climate challenge will be met. This is how we want to take Sweden forward. But before we do, we'll have a nice and pleasant summer. I want to wish everyone a really nice and, given last summer, hopefully not too hot and sunny summer.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-446	Madam President, I would like There is a birth crisis going on in Sweden, and it is most evident during the summer. On Saturday at 12 noon, the maternity ward in Karlskoga closed, and we have seen the same thing in Sollefteå in the past. There are few times in life when you are in such a need to be able to trust that the care is there as when you are about to have a baby. In the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, health care was allocated large resources. Of these resources, we spent 1 billion on maternity care, and it is money that now needs to benefit health care and also in the country's maternity wards so that parents – all parents, wherever they live – can feel safe when they are about to give birth. What is the Minister of Finance's message to the prospective parents in Karlskoga and Degerfors who are now worried about the most important event in their lives?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-449	Madam President, I would like The government is working to get this money to the county councils as quickly as possible. The needs are excruciating. We do our best to clear up the mess created by the napkin sketch to the budget that went through in the Swedish Parliament. It would of course have been much better if, in that situation, before Sweden had a government in place, this money had been spent in general government grants. In that case, the county councils had already had the money. Now they chose to do in a different way, and we are working on this money coming out as soon as possible. However, with general state subsidies, the money had already been there.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-451	Madam President, I would like It is nevertheless remarkable that a finance minister who has been in charge of Sweden for almost five years blames the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats for a birth crisis that has been going on for years in Sweden. When will Magdalena Andersson take responsibility for the welfare chaos and the crisis that is going on in maternity care? Many parents are worried, and I am convinced that the up to 4 000 – 5 000 people who demonstrated in Karlskoga the other day do not feel very reassured by the Minister of Finance's reply. The money's there. The Social Democrats have ruled Sweden for five years, and in the region of Örebro, where Karlskoga and Degerfors are located, the Social Democrats have ruled for over a hundred years. What is the answer to these parents? Is it really the case that Magdalena Andersson will continue to blame this failure in the welfare of the Moderates year after year?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-453	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Svantesson says I don't take responsibility. I've taken responsibility every day for four and a half years. I have taken responsibility for the major deficits that we inherited from the Moderates and made sure that we have order in our public finances. I have taken responsibility for all the tax increases and savings we have had to make to clean up after Elisabeth Svantesson was in the government. I have taken responsibility for all the reforms that have been carried out over these years, and I have taken responsibility for the things we have had to do in order to implement those reforms. However, there are two things I cannot take responsibility for. I cannot take responsibility for Elisabeth Svantesson pushing through a napkin sketch to the budget, with complicated state grants instead of general state grants to municipalities and county councils. With general state grants, the county councils would have had the money already now. I cannot take responsibility for that, but it is Elisabeth Svantesson's responsibility. Nor can I take responsibility for Elisabeth Svantesson instead of spending money on maternity care, on municipalities and county councils and on welfare choosing to reduce the tax by 20 billion. It's not my responsibility, Elisabeth Svantesson, it's yours.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-455	Madam President, I would like It is a remarkable statement that the financial authority lies with the Riksdag. I hope the Minister for Finance is the only one who thinks so. But enough about it; it was not the Constitution I was going to discuss. Madam President, I would like It is very expensive to refuel the petrol as it is, we see no need to increase the petrol tax. Does the Minister of Finance remember this statement? It is the Minister for Finance's own words from a debate in Swedish Television that we had for the 2014 elections. The following year, after the election, the petrol tax was increased by 28 cents. Then it was raised by 60 cents, and so by 24 cents more – and then by another 30 cents. How one even manages to keep one's job after such an achievement really transcends my mind, but I guess it's just to congratulate. This year the Minister of Finance had wanted to raise the tax even more, but together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats we managed to put an end to it. My question is therefore quite simple: by how much does the Minister of Finance intend to punish the country's motorists next year? It would be good for them to know so that they can cancel their holiday plans and cut other expenses in order to afford the Finance Minister's tax increases.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-458	Madam President, I would like We will start work on the budget for the autumn budget. There are already some discussions going on and they will be more intense in August. When the budget is then presented, we will be able to give information on the taxes and expenditure applicable for 2020. It is clear that we are going to carry out a green tax exchange, and during the term of office we will come up with exactly what it will look like. On the other hand, there is no information yet to be given on this issue. Let me ask Oscar Sjöstedt a question now that we are talking about consistency over time regarding our findings. When we held a discussion on the new fiscal framework, Oscar Sjöstedt wanted the one-percent target to remain. We made a change in which we lowered the general government surplus target from 1% to 1⁄3%. However, Oscar Sjöstedt wanted to retain the 1% target and continue paying off on the public debt. However, the budget motion presented by Oscar Sjöstedt does not live up to the surplus target we have today. You don't live up to the old and not even what we have today. Instead, they have spent 10 billion more than the government or any of the other parties in the Riksdag. Can't Oscar Sjöstedt tell me how he believes that one per cent of the surplus in public finances should be collected and that an enormous amount should be paid off on public debt while making proposals in parliament that go in the opposite direction?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-461	Madam President, I would like In the budget options we in the Swedish Democrats have presented, we have consistently had greater public-funded savings visvi the government – consistently and without exception. Let me, however, reconnect with my original question. Not very long ago, the Minister of Finance appeared in an article in Aftonbladet, I think it was, where the reporter said the Minister of Finance said that petrol taxes would be increased. Then someone protested from the Minister's press staff and said that the Minister of Finance did not say that at all. I would therefore simply like the Minister of Finance to use the remaining two minutes' speaking time to explain what was said in the interview that eventually became an article. Journalists themselves are journalists, but they rarely make things up from absolutely nothing. The Minister of Finance has also stated that if we raise the tax on petrol we will compensate people who live in rural areas, have a long way to work and so on. But how is that to be done? If it becomes more expensive to get to work, it becomes more expensive to get to work. Of course, it applies wherever you go; it doesn't have to be the job but can be something completely different. What other taxes must be indexed in parity with inflation – or even indexed with more than just inflation, until we manage to put an end to it? Is it like some kind of natural law that a tax must be indexed year after year? I'm not really buying that reasoning. However, we can return to the article. The Minister of Finance now has two minutes to comment on what was said and not said in that interview.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-465	Madam President, I would like Well, Oscar Sjöstedt thought that taxes should be indexed in this way. When we changed the indexation of the breakpoint, the Swedish Democrats were very much against it, so the Swedish Democrats think it is a correct indexation. As for the article in Aftonbladet, Aftonbladet has corrected it. What has been said in the article is also available on the Ministry of Finance's website, and it has also been discussed in the media. There is therefore a good opportunity to see exactly what I answered in that interview – which is, by the way, exactly the same answer as what I gave Oscar Sjöstedt in the speaker's chair just now. Oscar Sjöstedt says that the Swedish Democrats have always had stronger savings than the government, but they have 10 billion weaker savings in this year's budget. In the budget that they have submitted to Parliament today, the 10 billion have less savings than the government has. At the same time, they say they want 1% surplus. The Swedish democrats should put forward much stronger savings. They should have 10, 20 or 30 billion stronger savings to achieve what Oscar Sjöstedt thinks is right and right. It is obvious here that the Swedish Democrats say one thing but do another. This applies not only to this issue but also to others. It's like before the election. At the time, the Swedish democrats said that they would close the tax gap for pensioners, but after the elections this tax gap was widened. It is the same as before the 2014 elections when it was said to close the tax gap. But the first thing that was done after the election was to stop precisely a reduction in pensioner's tax. This is how the Swedish democrats act in question. You say one thing and you do another. Those affected are Swedish pensioners.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-472	Madam President, I would like The last parliamentary term was passed by the Left Party through the 10 welfare billions. It was a very important and central initiative and the historically largest during the time these general state grants have existed. But both the Minister for Finance and I know that welfare is underfunded. It is not least now that about a hundred municipalities are expected to be in deficit and some forty municipalities are expected to raise the tax – during the financial crisis I think it was over thirty. One in three regions was in deficit last year, and there are expected to be even more next year. Savings package after savings package is presented. At my home in Gävleborg you should save 600 million on health care and public transport. There will, of course, be consequences; you would have to do the opposite. Elderly care may be the most underfunded activity. Not least, we can look at the minute hunt that is going on, but it is also about the working conditions that employees have. Unfortunately, the Moderates and Christian Democrats removed the targeted state grant to employ more in elderly care, and the government and the 73-point gang chose to continue on that line. But even in school the Teacher March rolls forward, and in preschool we have the Preschool Rebellion. It is clear that it is expected that the government and the 73-point group will at least listen and try to come up with solutions to the large under-financing. The Minister of Finance himself has raised the need for 90 billion. But how are you going to finance this $90 billion? You should not increase taxes for the richest – for those who are best off – but rather want to lower taxes. Your partners want to reduce the tax rate very clearly. How are we going to do that, Minister of Finance?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-479	Madam President, I would like Ulla Andersson raises an extremely important question: how to ensure that we can all continue to have safe care for the elderly and a safe everyday life for our elderly, and of course a good schooling for our children and a high quality healthcare. How we can finance this will be one of the major challenges ahead. The elders are entitled to this. Our children need a good school – it's an important investment for the future. The coming years will be about very clear priorities. That is why we Social Democrats pushed the question of the increase in general state subsidies so hard in the discussions that we had before the formation of government. The welfare billions were and are an important priority for the government. How will this be financed? It is, of course, a matter of prioritising, and this is a priority for us. In the future, these needs will grow further, and then there will be a need for clear discussions on how to prioritise. It is clear that we Social Democrats think that welfare is something that is extremely important. Then, of course, we will see how the economy develops over the next four, five or eight years to see whether the emerging scope for reform is sufficient to meet the increased needs or whether other re-priorities will be needed by making less of something else or by increasing revenue. It remains to be seen, but that our elderly will have a safe everyday life will be an important priority for me.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-485	Madam President, I would like It is clear that economic activity, and hence tax revenues, is folding and that demographic changes are now here – we have been talking about them for 20 to 30 years. The Swedish Municipalities and County Council notes that following the additions signaled by the Government and the 73-point gang, the resource gap will be larger than the addition. This means that we cannot wait and see, but it is now that the cuts are being made in municipalities and county councils. This has consequences. There have already been consequences. People are working as hard as they can in care for the elderly and in school. Many work so hard that they get sick leave while others leave the profession. A very clear signal would be needed that this will be the main priority in the coming years. But that's not the case. If we read the 73-point agreement, we see that tax cuts seem to be the most priority – I do not know how many times this agreement mentions. That's no way to finance welfare. The Minister of Finance can't believe that. Moderates and Christian Democrats tend to think and believe in such things, but I doubt that the Minister for Finance does. I'm a little disappointed here, because it's gonna be a bit of a split tongue. The Minister of Finance says that this is a priority, but if we look at the 73-point agreement, we see that we should have RUT subsidies and lower taxes. The cost of removing the military tax on the most wealthy is even higher than expected in general state subsidies. Maybe the answer doesn't exist. So far, at least I haven't got it. How will welfare be financed?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-491	Madam President, I would like The welfare billions are a very central part of the January agreement, and 20 general billions in state grants to municipalities and county councils will mean a great deal to all the municipalities and county councils that are having a tough time right now. We see that some municipalities find it very difficult to get the economy together, and the same applies to county councils. This money is really needed out there, but money will not be enough. These are very big needs, which will also grow. It is of course a question of these being attractive workplaces, so that more people want to train and stay in these jobs and that there are nurses who can come and help when our elderly people need support. Shared tours, which Ulla Andersson mentioned, are hardly something that makes young people think that this seems an exciting profession to invest in in the future. Here municipalities and county councils must ensure that the work is organised in such a way that it becomes attractive for people to train and remain in these professions. It will also be that we need to use new technologies better than we do today. There is talk of efficiency. However, this can never be about nurses running faster than they do today, because they run far too fast as it is. On the other hand, it is a good thing that we can use new technologies in the field of night monitoring in such a way that we can improve the quality of the elderly while at the same time ensuring better working conditions for staff. One thing is clear: for us social democrats and for the government, the welfare, care for our elderly, the safety of our children and that we should all be able to have the health care we need to be a central priority during this parliamentary term and in the next.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-496	Madam President, I would like I agree with some of what Magdalena Andersson mentioned. We will need resources for prosperity. We will also need to reform a healthcare system that is not working and which, unfortunately, the government did far too little to reform during the last parliamentary term. I also see that we will have to invest in the staff of the elderly. We have looked at the possibilities of imposing a little higher demands on the municipalities if, in future, we provide additional funds in addition to the general support for the municipalities, on which we agree. It can be about making sure that you work actively to reduce shared tours, that the managers have a reasonable responsibility and are not responsible for very many people and that you can manage to increase the staff continuity, which we see that some municipalities succeed with while others do not succeed. It could be a question of setting criteria of this kind for obtaining the money that we provide in addition to the general funds. I think we need to do something, because this is a low-intensity crisis that risks developing even more in the future. Please look at this and see if there can be anything to include in the further work. Otherwise, Magdalena Andersson warns a lot about tax cuts when she talks about welfare. But anyone who doesn't talk about tax cuts most but who stands for tax cuts in the future is Magdalena Andersson. This is already evident in the amending budget. It is a net reduction of over 300 million in care for the elderly, while at the same time making inefficient tax cuts. You might think that these investments were not exactly the ones you had prioritised, that it is difficult to get the money out because you did not have the full basis for how to implement the investments. Then you can do other things for the money, use them for the care of the elderly or put them in general additions, but the government does not. Instead, the amending budget now cuts net to care for the elderly, while at the same time implementing inefficient tax incentives. Regrettably, rhetoric is not consistent with practice.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-503	Madam President, I would like Throw rocks in glass houses! Jakob Forssmed pushed the napkin sketches through to the budget that meant tax cuts of SEK 20 billion in one sweep – 20 000 million! So great tax cuts Jakob Forssmed pushed through. It is not me who is responsible for the major tax cuts, it is Jakob Forssmed.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-505	Madam President, I would like It is not particularly I who have warned against tax relief in the speaker's chair, but it is the Minister for Finance. I would like to know how the Minister of Finance views the tax incentives that have been implemented. If the Minister of Finance considers them to be such a threat to welfare, should they be reversed? Will the Minister of Finance propose this autumn to remove the job tax deduction that was applied? It can't be the other two reliefs. After all, the Minister of Finance has promised a further reduction in government income tax. And it cannot be the tax reduction that allowed all pensioners to have reduced tax on 1 January 2018 in relation to 31 January 2017, as the Minister of Finance points out. Then it must be the tax relief for ordinary people. In addition, the Minister of Finance has promised that the military tax will be abolished. Please answer which tax incentives from 1 January will be reversed by the Minister of Finance!
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-509	Madam President, I would like Let me say that during the eight years in which it was possible to influence Swedish economic policy, the Christian Democrats and Jakob Forssmed reduced the tax by SEK 140 billion, and now that they had the chance again, they lowered it by another SEK 20 billion. The priority that Christian Democrats make when they have the opportunity to influence the Swedish parliament is tax reductions, tax reductions, tax reductions. The tax cuts that Jakob Forssmed has pushed through are enormous in relation to the small changes that we have made in our amending budget, even small in relation to the military tax that we will abolish. We are not talking about an order of magnitude that is close by. It's like zeros that separate. Then it is no secret that we will implement tax cuts that we would not have prioritised if we had had our own majority, but that was not the case. In a compromise one has to give and take, and it was necessary for the country to have a government. But overall, economic policy during this parliamentary term will look quite different from when the Christian Democrats have influence, because then we know what is most prioritised. Christian Democrats may talk about elderly care and health care, but when you get the chance, you lower the tax.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-513	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by wishing the office, Members and Presidents a wonderful summer. I would also like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 in the FIU21. After all, we are also debating our amending budget here today. This amending budget is the first of its kind in the sense that it rests on the January Agreement and aims to implement the policy agreed by the government parties together with the Liberals and the Center Party and with the support of the Left Party. I have to say that it will be interesting to follow how the budget and the amending budget will develop in this parliamentary term, with the potential conflict areas that should exist between these parties. But so far, at least in this budget document, I do not feel able to identify any major conflicts of interest, but I can say that socialism and social liberalism go hand in hand without friction. This amending budget also stands out in another respect. Normally, an amending budget only contains changes in expenditure, but changes in state revenue are also being made here. These include the reintroduction of air tax and the increase in chemical tax. Common to these is that they are several in the series of creative solutions in the tax hunt conducted on citizens and companies in Sweden. We have a 30% tax increase in the so-called chemical tax. In practice, however, it is a tax on consumer electronics and white goods, so a more accurate name for it would be electronic tax or white goods tax. A white goods tax is a severe blow to consumers and trade, as this tax increase will have an impact on prices to customers, which of course gives consumers every reason to opt out of Swedish companies in favour of foreign online shopping. The result is a deterioration in the business environment and job losses. Whatever the government wants to achieve with this tax, it will remain a well-preserved state secret. I think that if you last long enough, there will soon be nothing left to tax in Sweden. But apparently it does, such as clothing and shoes. The increase in taxes on white goods has not even passed the Riksdag before you want to extend it to clothing and shoes – on top of the consumption tax. And this is how you do it. Nothing is ever enough. The only question is what to tax next. Madam President, I would like My point is that although there are factual grounds for being critical of these taxes, there is another, in my opinion, more important dimension to this discussion. There is a discrepancy in this country between what you pay in taxes and what you get back. The frustration has been expressed by the Swedish people, not least through the gas riot that has gathered almost 700 000 Swedes in one and the same Facebook group. And it is easy to understand the frustration when politicians in this House make petrol a luxury and hospital beds a scarce commodity. Let me make one thing clear: the Swedes are not tired of taxation because we have one of the world's highest tax burdens or the world's highest marginal taxes. The Swedes are tired of not getting what you paid for. Sweden is of all the Nordic countries the country with the most homeless. We also have the largest number of poor pensioners. Sweden is even the country with the most homeless poor pensioners in the Nordic countries. Matköer has become a reality. Sweden now has among Europe's longest healthcare queues. Suicide rates among young people are increasing. Cancer sufferers are dying waiting for surgery. Women are forced to give birth in the back of the car because of closed-down BB. The police are on their knees. The suburbs are on fire. Criminals execute people on the street. If we are now to tax electronics, clothing, petrol, health care and savings, the least we can demand is that we take these problems seriously. Giving the Police Authority and the Victims' Agency a quarter of a billion less in this budget is not taking them seriously. Cutbacks in care for the elderly and psychiatry are not taking the problems seriously. Instead, we see investments in the Government Office, new start jobs and solar cells in this amending budget. The Swedish people live up to their part of the social contract. It's time the government started doing the same.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-526	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Budgets is today considering a report that has been called for by the serious data on suspected money laundering by Swedish banks in the Baltic countries. The report is about a committee initiative, originally taken by the Left Party and the Christian Democrats, which was well done by them, after which all the parties in the committee have discussed and agreed on the wording of the mission to the government, which is to investigate what overall capacity exists to detect and combat money laundering. Money laundering is a very serious crime. It is both criminal in itself and often committed to conceal other criminal activities. It is often money that comes from illegal trafficking or corruption and that is divided up and placed in various businesses or properties that are subsequently sold. Then the money is redistributed. Then a bank somewhere in Europe admits that the money is placed in an account there, whereupon it is used in new business and placed in other banks. Finally, they are in an account with a reputable and respected bank, washed. Money laundering is closely linked to tax crimes and illegal markets, to activities that exploit people and harm our economy and undermine our welfare systems and foster trust and cohesion. Like other crimes, the methods of crime are refined and developed, and society must constantly work to catch up, access, prosecute and prevent – as has been done and is done. In recent years, the Swedish parliament and government have increased efforts to combat money laundering. In 2017, a new Money Laundering Act was adopted. It has also added a new coordination function to the police. In the autumn, new requirements will come into force on how financial companies will provide information to criminal investigation authorities. In addition to this, Finansinspektionen has received a resource supplement of SEK 80 million, including to strengthen banking supervision and money laundering supervision. Further proposals are being prepared, including now. But if this is to carry all the way, all actors have to shoulder their responsibilities. This applies, of course, to politics and our authorities, but also to the banks. Money laundering should not pay off, and it should not be a competitive advantage. Nor should it be possible to see through your fingers or be flat. Now a united Committee on Finance has presented an initiative for an investigation into money laundering. The mandate to the Government includes a thorough analysis of Finansinspektionen's capacity to effectively conduct supervision in the area, the powers of the relevant authorities in relation to the banks and the powers of the banks in relation to their customers and the effectiveness of the existing government structure and the division of responsibilities between the money laundering authorities both nationally and internationally. The mission involves investigating whether, based on the functioning of the authorities and their relationship with the banks and on their relationship with the customers, there are systems, structure and capacity to access money laundering – simply a proper search. Madam President, I would like Two of our forces in the fight against money laundering are outrage and unity – our common outrage at the fact that it is happening and our broad consensus in fighting it. We understand that it is complex. Money laundering moves across borders. Swedish banks' operations in Estonia are subject to Estonian law and supervision. This points to the need for cooperation and transparency and for constant work on the issue. Now the government is being given the task of holding on to its work and continuing to push ahead – something that I know it will do with dedication. From democratic society and from the public and parliamentary system, we assume our responsibility for upholding the law and maintaining a sound and good economic and financial system. Basically, it is a matter of citizens' confidence and of the public interest being taken first. I support the committee's proposal.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-539	Madam President, I would like It is time for the Riksdag to take a position on the initiative to announce to the Government that further measures can be taken to strengthen the work against money laundering as soon as possible. I propose that the Parliament approve the committee's proposal. Let me also say that it is a strength that all parties in the Committee on Finance have managed to agree on this committee initiative. As capital markets are liberalised and digitised, money laundering is becoming increasingly sophisticated. According to the United Nations, money laundering accounts for 2 – 5 percent of global bnp annually, which corresponds to Germany's bnp. Most attempts at money laundering involving Swedish banks are made abroad. The issue of money laundering is complex, and the criminal networks behind it are well organised. The fight against money laundering and terrorist financing has become increasingly intense in the 21st century. In 2009, the new risk-based regulatory framework came into being in the EU. It places entirely new demands on the actors in society who have been required to try to prevent money laundering. The next step may be to improve opportunities for interaction between stakeholders. But let us not be naive. Money laundering will exist as long as it is possible to make money out of this crime. Money laundering, however, is a moving target where the ways of laundering money change as opportunities arise and become blocked. At the same time, the regulatory framework has changed time and again over the last ten years and has become increasingly detailed and complex. Media reporting on suspected cases of money laundering tests the trust of the industry in the public. The Swedish banks' deep crisis of confidence among our citizens not only creates major concerns among their owners and employees, but the crisis is a national Swedish concern because the banks are systemically important. Should further things emerge that deepen the crisis, it risks creating surges throughout the Swedish financial sector and threatening financial stability. Therefore, legislators must assume their responsibilities to ensure that the problems of money laundering that have occurred are not repeated. Since last autumn, the Committee on Finance has held hearings with representatives from governments, authorities and organisations to get their views on developments and on the measures taken and planned. It can be noted that several initiatives have been taken, but I do not have initiatives on certain important issues. It is therefore important that the Government examine as soon as possible what further measures can be taken to strengthen the important work against money laundering.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-546	Madam President, I would like I'm just saying Norwegian! That's wonderful, isn't it? I'll do my heeling and Gävle accent, and we'll see how it goes. First of all, I would like to wish the President and the Office a nice summer. The Finance Committee's office as well – thank you for all the work you do! Thank you also to the members of the Committee on Finance. This debate is about money laundering; everyone understands that. The widespread and recurrent scandals surrounding suspected money laundering in the Swedish banking system have greatly undermined the confidence of the banks from the public. Yeah, maybe it wasn't that high before either, but this definitely didn't get any better. Money laundering has been shown to be possible despite the fact that the law has been tightened up, fines have been increased and the Financial Supervisory Authority has received increased resources. The investigation initiated by Finansinspektionen regarding the existence of money laundering within Swedbank is good and necessary but absolutely not sufficient. We believe that the policy needs to shoulder its responsibilities in order to ensure broadly that the problems of money laundering that have occurred are not repeated and that there are no other acts of trust-damaging activity, but also to make it clear that what has happened in the banking sector is not acceptable. It is of great importance that this should be done urgently. That is how we wrote in the Left Party and the Christian Democrats in our joint committee initiative last spring. We had had enough long ago, and we felt that the government's actions left some other things to be desired. It is not that the banks cannot afford to have control. Over a number of years, they have reduced the number of employees, closed down local offices after local offices and increased their profits year after year. They can afford effective control systems, to train their employees and to build up well-functioning anti-money laundering, tax evasion and tax crime departments. But profit seems to have been more important than fighting money laundering – yes, even more important than fighting tax evasion and tax evasion, which is an activity that banks have earned money from. People have justifiably become very ossified. Ordinary people are thoroughly interrogated if you come in with cash and want to deposit it or exchange money, while illegal activity seems to have passed with ease years in and out. We expected the government to invite to cross-party talks on how we could act together to prevent future money laundering and on what initiatives needed to be taken, what laws needed to be changed and what resources needed to be provided. But despite several calls from the Left Party but also from the Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Moderates, the government did not act. The government noted that regulations had already been amended, that Swedbank's management and Finansinspektionen had been met and that they were working on EU directives on money laundering. That's good, but it wasn't enough. The government also felt that the level of fines that existed was sufficient despite the fact that the maximum amount of fines that Swedbank can be imposed is equal to the bank's profit for a quarter. That is why it is very good that a united committee is now taking a joint initiative based on ours and that of the Christian Democrats. An investigation is now to be set up, and urgently, in order to strengthen the work against money laundering. The investigation is given scope to propose regulatory changes and tightening of sanctions as well as other changes that may need to be implemented. The issues raised include the provision of competence by Finansinspektionen and the adequacy of sanctions and supervisory fees. The powers of the authorities vis-à-vis the banks should also be reviewed. It could be such things as the exchange of information. The administrative structure also needs to be reviewed, as well as the division of responsibilities. There is quite a lot to say about it, but I think we will wait until another time. The committee initiative of the Left Party and the Christian Democrats on money laundering was certainly unexpected to many. But we had many suggestions that were common, and it bore fruit. Our initiative put the issue of money laundering on the table of the Committee on Finance. Today, I am pleased to say, we have a unanimous committee initiative from the Committee on Finance. It is both important and good that it happened. After all, we do not want any more revelations about bank money laundering. I would like to thank Jakob Forssmed in particular for his excellent cooperation. To you in the gallery and to all of you around the country waiting for the next debate, I would like to thank you very much for standing up every day for human dignity. Words cannot describe its significance. Thank you! You're worth the greatest applause there is.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-562	Madam President, I would like What are they doing at the bank after three o'clock? The question has been put on a great deal lately. It is extremely important that customers, but also citizens, have confidence in the banks and the activities they carry out. Banks are the most important thing in the financial bloodstream and central to the stability of a society. This task makes them important institutions that are protected in various ways from collapse by the public – by the state if you like. Otherwise, there would be a risk that millions of customers would see their money lost. There would also be a great risk that more banks would be involved in the collapse of an individual bank, which could at worst lead to a full-scale financial crisis. Individuals and companies depend entirely on the banks for our financial system – for our pensions and salaries, our savings and our mortgages, credit, investment and business. Banks and financial undertakings enjoy a special position with which they have a special responsibility. Therefore, there must also be clear rules that banks must comply with and provide guarantees from the state that contribute to stability. It is therefore important for society as a whole that banks act in such a way as to maintain confidence in them. But banking is in a crisis of confidence after repeated suspicions of money laundering and light or difficult activities in foreign branches. In addition, banks – at least some – have shown the inability to deal with these suspicions in a transparent, responsible and confidence-building manner. Madam President, I would like Money laundering is very serious. It facilitates crime and finances crime. It can also finance terrorism. In order to better stop money laundering and restore confidence in the banking sector, this spring I presented some proposals on how to act against money laundering by strengthening the functioning, mandate and strength of the Financial Supervisory Authority, financed by increased supervisory fees, so that we can better verify that the banks are meeting high standards. It's also good for the banks. It strengthens the foundation and trust in them and their ability to carry out their activities. We simply need to build a stronger financial inspection – and the banks will pay for it. In a report from 2017, the IMF points out that Finansinspektionen does not have sufficient resources to manage supervision adequately. We also need to review the powers of the inspection and the stages at which it can act. It must be possible to act at an early stage when a bank finds itself in a position of confidence. In addition, international cooperation must be stepped up and improved, staff turnover reduced and skills supply strongly strengthened. In the money laundering department at Finansinspektionen, six of the seven employees left the section for other jobs or leave of absence between summer 2017 and autumn 2018. In that department, which is currently working on money laundering, this corresponds to a staff turnover of 85%. After I had talked about some thoughts on reforms and further pressure on combating money laundering, Ulla Andersson spoke to me and suggested that, with our common view on a number of these issues, we should put forward a proposal for a committee initiative. I am pleased about that, because it has led to the fact that today we have a united committee that is actually doing this. We jointly stated, me and Ulla Andersson, that the government had not done enough. An accident commission against money laundering had been promised. Someone like that didn't come in. It was a high tone against the banks, and the government promised to act tough and resolutely. But it did not come into place in the way we think it is necessary. We also noted that Finansinspektionen was too weak in relation to the banks and that it must be investigated how Finansinspektionen's size and muscles can be strengthened, how the supply of skills can function better and how staff turnover can be reduced. We also need to look at the means of sanctioning banks. We need to review the dissemination of information and information between authorities and to the banks, so that they too can cooperate better in the area of money laundering. Today, there is a wide range of authorities dealing with the issue of money laundering. We need to look at whether the government structure we have today is the most effective. Now a united committee has taken a position in line with our proposal. That's very good. There is broad agreement and consensus on reinforced work on money laundering. The committee is now jointly calling on the Government to urgently investigate Finansinspektionen's capacity to conduct effective supervision including competence provision, fees and sanctions. Powers vis-à-vis banks also need to be reviewed. This also applies to the powers of banks in relation to their customers and to the possibility of exchanging information between authorities and banks. Authorities must also be better at reconnecting with banks when reporting suspected cases of money laundering. Then how'd it go? How did the Authority act? There will be a need for extensive cooperation with the banks. It is therefore important for the authorities to ensure that banks receive feedback on what happens when they report suspected money laundering. This is very good. When the government is passive, the Riksdag shall act. It is now thanks to the joint proposal of the Christian Democrats and the Left Party. It will contribute to better work against money laundering. It is important both in substance and to strengthen confidence in the banks and the financial system. Customers and citizens should be able to feel confident about what happens in the bank after three o'clock.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-581	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. However, we naturally support all our reservations. Last Friday there were students and school graduations around Sweden. In Åhus church sang, almost screamed, the children singing Now it's summer vacation. The school graduation is a day filled with both relief and anticipation. It is relief that you have passed another school year and that you now have a hopefully long and nice summer ahead of you with some lax days. Perhaps you also have a summer job ahead of you and everything that it can give in the form of experience, an important line of CV and some own money. It is also the expectation of what comes after the summer. Perhaps it is to pack up your things and move into a corridor room in Lund. Maybe it's the first day of high school. That's how it should be – just like in the happy songs. But in parts of Sweden the school graduation is in minor. In several of the most vulnerable areas, grades are opened that show that even every other ninth grader has not approved the required subjects. Four out of ten students with foreign background in Sweden do not qualify for upper secondary school today. That's almost three times as many as for all nines combined. Too many children don't get to see their mom and dad go to work in the morning. Every other unemployed person is born abroad. There are many figures that can illustrate Sweden's overall integration failure. And behind every bleak number is a crushed dream. It is the mother who fled war and oppression to create a better future for herself and her children. But the dream came off when the thresholds were too high. It was the language, the job and the culture. She no longer runs for her life, but she is still struggling to stand on her own feet. It's the daughter who never sees her mother go to work. Even she has difficulty learning the language and is told by others how to live her life. She's in danger of having her dream broken, just like Mom. Some children are not even allowed to go to school because they are forced to live hidden. Madam President, I would like For many years, Sweden has had a very large amount of immigration. Since 2010, half a million people have applied for asylum here. In the last 15 years, 1.6 million people have been granted a residence permit. For a great deal, the journey has continued into society and into its own livelihood. But too few have been able to make their own way. Instead, many who have come here find it difficult to get a job, to pass school and to learn the language. Grants will be an alternative to salary. Outsidership and hopelessness replace belief in the future. Madam President, I would like I am the first to admit that many political parties bear responsibility for a long time of unsustainable levels of immigration and a major integration failure. But we Moderates are prepared to take responsibility. We look with concern at those children who do not feel relief and expectation of graduation. We are thinking of those who are not even allowed to attend school and of those mothers who have never really got the chance in their new home country. But we're not giving up. We are now leading an integration commission to develop reforms so that everyone who comes and has come here will not only be released across the border but also into Swedish society for real. It is a yes to being involved and becoming an important cog in the machinery that ensures that Sweden works and is the free, beautiful and rich country that we have every reason to be proud of. Now is the time to take responsibility for those who have come here to stay. A key condition for success is to have a tight immigration policy for a long time to come. We must take a holistic approach to immigration once and for all. We have to stop patching and fix and stop opening up to the next moment screwing up. Madam President, I would like For a long time now, we Moderates have extended our hand to the Social Democrats so that together we can lay the foundations for a tight and sustainable policy that survives even future elections. But the Social Democrats have not taken our outstretched hand. Instead, the government wants to investigate how immigration to Sweden can become more extensive. Morgan Johansson announced this at a press conference on Friday. Not once did the Minister of Migration mention integration. It's talking. If you do not see Sweden's total integration failure, you can perhaps afford to continue with irresponsible immigration. Madam President, I would like This debate is about the extension of the Temporary Migration Act, which was introduced after the government has lost control. When we decide today to extend the temporary law, until we have new legislation in place, the government and the Christian Democrats are in a position to push through more extensive immigration to Sweden. This is done without an analysis of the consequences for society and those who have already come here. It's like the crisis was over. It's like the problems didn't exist. It's like school, health care and social services didn't get on their knees. It's as if it didn't matter at all for integration how many people come here. We Moderates are voting against more family immigration today. And we're voting against an extension of the High School Act. It is an ill-considered and unfair reform that means that adults without protection are allowed to stay in Sweden. It is suitable for the municipalities, who are already on their knees after many years of great immigration. We vote against it out of concern for all the children who went to school with a lump in their stomach. We do it because all children deserve to feel hopeful and exciting about the new life they are going to build here. We are doing it because it is simply right, even if it is difficult. We are prepared to take responsibility for a long-term sustainable and tight migration policy, for the sake of integration.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-597	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin with a somewhat unorthodox motion. In fact, I would like to support our supplementary motion for this proposal, 2018/ 19:3108 requests 1 and 2 in paragraph 2 of the report, and our reservation No 4. The reason why I am pressing in this way will be clarified in my speech. We are here today to debate and, finally, hopefully extend the temporary law that came about when Sweden was in an acute crisis. It was a time when business after business said: The Council of State was forced to listen to the municipalities who said, "We can't handle the situation." The same politicians and journalists who at one moment mocked me when I said that we will soon have tent camps in Sweden had to spread the news that they started discussing how to open a tent camp at Rinkaby. This was the situation, and it has not been very long since then. It's important to remember. A few months after this situation finally came a proposal for a temporary legislation that would restrict asylum policy in Sweden to give a breathing space, as was said. The Minister for Migration and the government parties said that we are now landing at a minimum level in the European Union. Even then, you were wrong. It was much tighter than it had been before. However, one example that I mentioned at the time was that the residence permits given to alternative beneficiaries were deliberately granted for 13 months, with the explicit aim that the persons in question should have access to Swedish welfare systems, even though nothing in EU law required it. So it was not a minimum level. It has also been seen that we have hardly been at the EU's minimum level in the years since then in terms of the immigration into Sweden that can be linked to asylum policy. Since then, the law has been eroded time and again. You had to patch and fix when the first extensions would come in. It turned out then that it had not been thought of having a margin to impose a requirement that applications for an extension should be made in good time for them to be processed before the residence permit expires. We got upper secondary school team number one which made it possible to get a residence permit in Sweden to study at upper secondary level at the expense of Swedish taxpayers with the result that Swedish upper secondary school teachers in one way or another actually decide whether their students should be allowed to stay in the country or not. This was highly criticised. With today's distribution of seats in Parliament, this proposal would have won only with a small mandate. Then came the Second High School Act, which extended the right to adults who were not even deemed to be in need of protection. The law has been eroded time and again. When we decide to extend the law, it is a much worse law that will be extended than needed in 2015 and 2016 or what is even needed now. In addition to this is the immigration of relatives, which is now being reopened. I understand this. It sounds nice, and of course it's something that grabs the heart. Families should be able to live together. But there are several aspects that are important to consider. We have a situation that Maria Stenergard has just explained very clearly: Sweden has not yet recovered. To further increase immigration to Sweden in this situation and also in a way that removes the supply requirement is not sustainable. It will not, on the whole, lead to anything good. It is said that this is something that is important for integration. I understand that an individual of course wants to know that the family is safe. But it is one thing to know that the family is safe and another to let Swedish tax money pay for the living here in Sweden. Instead, it would have provided an incentive to enter the labour market if one could know that the family is safe and able to bring it here, but then have to work and pay for it itself. It had also ensured that once the family came after, there had been at least one grain to a fixed point in place to which it could connect. One of the most important things for me on this issue is what signals this sends out and what consequences it has in a macro perspective and for migration flows as a whole. Of course, I listened to the press conference held on Friday. It presented the directives to the parliamentary inquiry. But I also listened to the following Question Time. I heard how the Minister for Migration pointed out that the austerity we had in relation to family immigration has left families no longer divided. They've traveled as a unit. Of course, it is very bad that they have travelled dangerous roads. That's not good. You can have different views on how to prevent this. Our view is basically that asylum should not be granted only after crossing dangerous barriers and travelling far away. It should be given when you are safe and close to your home. The fact remains, however. What rules for family immigration we have affect whether families split up or not. When we open up for family reunification on Swedish soil, we make it profitable to send a person in advance. With the rules we generally have for a residence permit in Sweden, we also make it extra profitable for families to choose quite young children that you send in advance. We now have age controls and rules that make it pay to be a minor when you come here. This is not a policy that I want to support or call humane in any way. My first pleas, which I referred directly to the motion, relate to the fact that we think that the only thing that should be extended at this point is the law as it stood when it first came into place, with the limitations at that time. Sweden has not yet recovered. The major changes that have come after this have been ill-considered, ill-prepared loosenings. Although the first law was also ill prepared and also received criticism from the Law Council, it came into being at an acute stage. I wish that these two years had been used to prepare a serious policy, not to create a patchwork of further ill-considered proposals where the consequences have not been looked at. At a very late stage in the preparation process, it was found that it would be too great a change if a reservation were to be accepted. I therefore choose to support the proposals we have received in the motion. Acceptance of our proposals means the adoption of an extension of the law as it stood in proposal 2015/ 16:174, with the necessary consequential changes to this in case other legislation has changed. This should not be a technical difficulty. If, instead, we had completely rejected the bill now on the table, we would go back to the foreigner's legislation that existed earlier. Therefore, we should reasonably be able to adopt a proposal that is equally obedient to the one that has been tabled before. My second request concerns a reservation that mentions long-term residents. I'll try to be brief. We have European legislation which has allowed us to incorporate into Swedish law the possibility of long-term resident status when we moved to temporary residence permits. It is something that can be given to people who have been granted temporary residence permits but who have lived in a country for five years and who can support themselves. If you are granted long-term resident status in Sweden, you will automatically receive a permanent residence permit. The requirements for obtaining a permanent residence permit under the Temporary Act, which provides for order and order, are more stringently regulated than the supply requirements applicable to long-term residents. The Migration Agency is pointing out that this is a flaw. At best, we get more matters to deal with when people try to apply for a permanent residence permit through long-term resident status. In the worst case, it could be that far more than the idea of this law is actually given the possibility of a permanent residence permit. The law is almost ineffective. If the matter had been properly prepared and not thrown in a lot of new patchwork and new additions, such as family reunification, this could have been speeded up. Then it could have been fixed. The EU does not require those receiving temporary protection to be subject to long-term resident rules. But the government has not had time to do this. There has not been enough time for comments. We in the committee have not been able to look at this early enough and clearly enough. We've had too little time. It has been thought that family reunification should be thrown in as a result of an agreement. It's not responsible. That's not good. I still sincerely hope that unless our motion is supported that at least the Moderates will get it. It removes family immigration and calls for changes to secondary legislation. We will support it in the second place if our fall.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-619	Madam President, I would like I thank the audience. Today we are debating a law that has been deliberately created to make Sweden a worse place to live. It's a very sad political idea. Yet that is just the case. The law the government wants to extend today has been created to let parents on the run know that they cannot be reunited with their children here. It is designed to ensure that severely ill and vulnerable people know that Sweden does not become a haven for them. It is designed to make people on the run feel the uncertainty of a temporary residence permit and not really be able to breathe out and build their lives in safety. It is designed to ensure that minors from, for example, the tormented Afghanistan, who are not covered by secondary legislation, know that the temporary residence permit is converted into an expulsion on the 18th anniversary. That is how bad it is, Madam President. How did we get here? Three years have passed. There are many of us who had hoped for and fought for us not to stand here today in the face of an extension of the Temporary Restrictions Act. I – and many of you who are listening in the gallery and at home today – still hope that the other parties take the chance The Left Party now gives them to let the temporary law become a shameful parenthesis in Sweden's history and not extend it. This is a law that has created much chaos, disorder, sorrow and despair. Yet I cannot say that I am surprised. Temporary laws tend to be anything but temporary. I would like to start by recalling how the government argued when the law was introduced. We must create a temporary breathing space for Swedish refugee reception," said Prime Minister Stefan Lö fven at the press conference on 24 November 2015, where the Temporary Restriction Act was announced as part of forcing people on the run not to go to Sweden. This was done by adapting Swedish asylum legislation to the EU's minimum level. The government painted the picture that Sweden was facing a system collapse. In the meantime, the Temporary Restrictions Act would provide an opportunity to improve the capacity of the reception of people on the run. The so-called breathing room was based on the very strange idea that Sweden, by giving up its responsibilities, would make other EU countries take greater responsibility. Order and order were the new slogan. What about these arguments? wondering friend of order perhaps. Was Sweden really facing a so-called system collapse? It is, by the way, a word launched by the right wing and picked up by the government. The answer is no. Although the historically large number of people who came to Sweden put pressure on some municipalities and authorities in some places, we did indeed do well. As the Swedish Civil Protection Agency had to go out and point out, there was no system collapse. On the other hand, there was a society whose well-being and preparedness had not been equipped for crisis. But there was a civil society that stood up and did what was necessary to help authorities and municipalities meet the challenge. Some of these people are in the stands here today. Has the government then ensured that Sweden during the time of the temporary law has built up its reception capacity? No, it hasn't been like that. On the contrary, the Finnish Immigration Service is closing down accommodations and decreasing operations, while the agency is forced to struggle with the totally unreasonable savings requirements that a blue-brown state budget has left them with. Similarly, it may be wondered whether the temporary law would then have led other countries in the EU to take greater responsibility. No, in retrospect we see painfully clearly that it was just the opposite. When Sweden extinguished its humanitarian lighthouse for asylum seekers, it became an argument for other countries to take even less responsibility. The temporary in the law then, h ur did it with it? They responded to the widespread criticism that came by referring to the law being just temporary. But it didn't happen that way. This is where we stand today, and a majority intends to prolong this misery. For many there is not a temporary delay in family reunification, but a permanent one. Already during the three years the law has been in force, children have turned 18 and thus lost the right to be reunited with a parent or family. Now that the law is further extended, even more will have a permanently divided family as an 18-year-old present. In the meantime, the first thing to be pushed forward disappeared. Has the government's patchwork of temporary laws brought order? No, it doesn't. On the contrary, the temporary restriction act was the start of an unpredictability and legal uncertainty that is unprecedented in Swedish refugee policy history. Madam President, I would like The date of the press conference came to have a tremendous impact on people throughout the country. There was the watershed between the person who could obtain a residence permit for humanitarian reasons and the person who could not. It is the sharp difference between the unaccompanied one who came before 24 November and the friend who came days after. That is the difference between families that will be allowed to be reunited in peace and security and families that are denied the same right or have seen their chance of reunification disappear due to tough livelihood requirements. None of the legislative changes carried out have been preceded by normal preparation or investigation. Nor has the impact we have now seen in the last three years been evaluated. Instead, the legislative changes have been based on signal policy compromises and agreements with the stated aim of deterring people from coming to Sweden. The consequences have been that Sweden is worse at giving a sanctuary to people who need it, as well as worsening the rule of law and a growing shadow society. Madam President, I would like There were many of us who foresaw the problems and flaws that the law was to be drawn up hastily and hastyly, including about fifty referrals, the Law Council and us in the Left Party. Now it has turned out that we were right on every point. Unfortunately, reality has proved even worse in many ways, because the haste made it very difficult to predict all the nonsense we now see. I could talk for a long time and give examples for example. It would at first glance seem sprawling, and that's because it is just that. The legal uncertainty and difficulty in comparing the various cases makes it very diffuse. The Advisory Board and the Red Cross have assessed the consequences of the temporary law with their own report. The Red Cross has reviewed the humanitarian consequences. The Advisory Board, now known as the Asylum Law Centre, has examined the legal issues. Both evaluations show that there is no support for the law to have fulfilled its purpose. No, Madam President, that fewer people are applying for asylum in Sweden today than before is not due to the temporary law. The refugee reception had gone down considerably already when the temporary law was passed. This is because it is harder to get into and through Europe. This is because those who want to seek asylum in Europe are instead trapped in Libyan refugee camps where they are subjected to gross abuse and sold as slaves, they are shot at at the Turkish border, they die on a hike through the Sahel or drown in the Mediterranean. The Swedish breathing room is based on a horse trade with dictatorships and villains. That insight should make every Member of this House ashamed. The Red Cross describes how the temporary law, particularly with regard to family fragmentation and temporary residence permits, leads to a deterioration in integration and establishment. Concern about family members creates stress and makes it difficult to establish yourself. Temporary residence permits lead to increased mental illness and, of course, make it difficult to process traumas. The Advisory Bureau notes that the asylum process has become increasingly legally insecure as a result of the temporary law as it has moved the power from the legislator to the legal practitioner to determine whether decisions are contrary to the obligations of the Convention. It is a very difficult task that is assigned to individual administrators and which is interpreted very differently for obvious reasons. The Red Cross also points out that temporary residence permits create uncertainty in health care. Medical staff consider the possibility of long-term treatment and follow-up, which means that people in need of, for example, organ donation or substance abuse care do not receive it. The consequence of that for the individual may be a matter of life or death. If we look at referrals for the extension of the law today, the answers are quite similar. The responses from civil society in We cannot bear to show a reality where just unpredictability, chaos and legal uncertainty are everyday. The government, for its part, has shown no interest in evaluating the law itself. Instead, the Government has asked the Migration Agency to carry out an impact assessment of how the number of asylum seekers would be affected if the law was not extended. The analysis shows a small impact and an even smaller effect of reintroducing the right to family reunification. So we are here today with a law that does not live up to its aims, which damages integration and establishment and causes great human suffering. The Left Party believes that the law should never have been passed and that it should certainly not be extended. That is why I propose that the proposal be rejected and that reservation 1 be approved. The Left Party maintains our criticism of the original temporary law. In the meantime, minor improvements have been made. We welcome, of course, that the government, together with L and C, ensure that Sweden at least complies with the Constitution by creating the possibility of family reunification for alternative protection. Less than that, frankly, would hardly be possible. At the same time, like a wide range of referrals, we see a number of areas where the law really needs to be improved. I will mention some of them. We continue to support our proposals to allow permanent residence permits to become the general rule. Today, however, I have chosen to highlight only some obviously wrong and offensive things that require changes that several parties in this House should be able to support. This applies first and foremost to the children's perspective. In the temporary extension of the law, exceptions shall only be made in the case of particularly distressing reasons for children if this is contrary to the obligations of the Convention. The government thinks it is enough to refer to a portal clause in the Aliens Act on the best interests of the child. That is a very strange conclusion, because it was precisely the lack of application of that paragraph that introduced the rule of particularly sensitive reasons for children. This deterioration in the protection of children occurs despite the fact that the Convention on the Rights of the Child will become Swedish law on 1 January 2020. It is very good that a new humanitarian protection base should be maintained in the new Migration Policy Committee. However, it is difficult to understand why legislation should be substandard and legally insecure while the Committee is working. It does not respond to the agreement between the government and the Centre Party and the Liberals, nor does it respond to the bill. When it comes to family reunification, there is much to say. In order to get family reunification according to the extension of the law, a certain legalised cohabitation is required before you come to Sweden. Who can live together? We know that it cannot, for example, be homosexuals, bisexuals, transgender persons, queer persons, couples whose relationship is not accepted by the family in what is called honor-related violence. I wonder if it's really intentional. Could it be that it is these very people, some of the world's most vulnerable in some countries, who are to be denied living together here? That has to change. The second relates to the properties of a well-founded prospect of a permanent residence permit. This is another basis for assessment, apart from the supply requirement. It is very difficult to assess even according to the Migration Agency and other consultation bodies. If you want order, that arbitrariness must be removed. Madam President, I would like Family reunification is often about women and children. It is because you do not want to take the whole family with you through the camps in Libya or on the sea. The Red Cross has shown in a review of judgments that it is considerably more difficult for women to live up to the tough livelihoods that exist for family reunification today. It is clear to us that well-functioning family reunification, which applies to all, is also an important and crucial feminist policy. Furthermore, the supply requirement is very hard on pensioners, disabled people and people who are unable to work fully. It's discriminatory. We can already see that more than 15 000 people have been rejected. Some have even had to choose which child they want to bring here. Do you understand? Can you imagine such a situation? It's hair traveler. The supply requirement must be abolished. It is also difficult for people with ordinary jobs and wages. It shouldn't depend on how rich you are if you're going to live with your family. For a family with a parent who is here seeking family reunification with three children, a salary of more than $2,800 (U.S.) is required before tax a month. Do you know what the average salary of a teacher with work experience of 91⁄2 years is? It is about SEK 27,399, that is, too little. For car mechanics, the average salary is SEK 21 691. It wouldn't work either. For waitresses with five years of experience, it is SEK 19 077. It goes without saying that many will not make it. Isn't reunification supposed to be for ordinary people, Madam President? The three-month requirement adds to this, not least for quota refugees. It could take a few months between decisions and you get to come here. It's important time ticking away. But that also applies to others. I know that in the gallery there are people from the Eritrean group who deny 400 people family reunification. I know a father who doesn't get his kids and his wife here even though he has two jobs and an apartment. We cannot do that, Madam President. The last thing I want to mention is the group of women who are victims of violence. It is a discussion we have often had with regard to the two-year rule of the Aliens Act. Already there we have great problems, but the temporary law does not contain the exceptions contained in the ordinary Aliens Act. It says that if you have come here as a lover and during the two years are subjected to violence you can get a permanent residence permit and stay even if the relationship is broken. That exception is not included in the temporary law. I wonder, of course, how a feminist government can accept that. It's not just two years with the temporary law. It is five years in a situation that is so vulnerable and difficult. In order to correct all this, I support our reservation 3. Finally, Madam President, I said at the beginning of my speech that today we are debating a law that has been created to make Sweden a worse place to live. As I look up at the gallery today, I see people fighting for the exact opposite every day. They take responsibility for each other when politics escapes its responsibility and sits in a corner and breathes in a paper bag. I see family homes fighting for their new family members. I see helpers in networks struggling for security and amnesty for unaccompanied children and young people who have been in trouble. I see family members who do everything they can – who have double jobs and apartments – and who still do not meet livelihood requirements. I see young people who have been on strike for their unaccompanied friends and who do not give up but stop to the end. I see sisters and brothers from different communities of faith united in the fight for the right of asylum. I see fighters working for asylum seekers' children in your family who are threatened with expulsion to an Afghanistan they have never been in. I see that all of you are the Sweden that I love and are so terribly proud of. And I think that what we really need is a policy that bridges that gap between the reality that you experience every day and the legislation that we see. It is a policy that aims to make Sweden a better place for all of us to live – not a worse one. The Left Party will be a strong and clear voice in favour of such a policy in the new Committee. A robust well-being along with a strong defence of human rights – that's what it takes.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-656	Madam President, I would like I support the Christian Democrats' motion and the reservation that we have to put in place immediately the parliamentary committee responsible for shaping tomorrow's migration policy. Today we are debating an extension of the law on temporary restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden. It is a temporary law, which was passed in the Riksdag in June 2016. The parties behind the January Agreement now propose to extend the temporary law, subject to certain changes, for a further two years. With a month to go until the implementation of the new law, today we are faced with a choice. We can propose changes which, if they are to be heard, there is no way to prepare. We also have the possibility of returning to the Aliens Act, which would mean that Sweden would depart from the other Member States of the European Union. None of these two options is desirable. A return to the Aliens Act, while we are setting up a parliamentary committee to work out the future migration policy, means further changes and sharp throws. These should be avoided. The Christian Democrats therefore tolerate the proposal that is being put forward today, not because we think it is good, but because it is the least bad alternative at the moment. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats voted against the granting of a new residence permit to some 9 000 unaccompanied minors. The reason was and is that we believe that it is the need for protection, not long processing times or, for that matter, upper secondary school studies, that should be tested. Although the so-called High School Act should never have been adopted, we accept the extension proposed in the bill. We do so when those who have been granted a residence permit for upper secondary school studies will also have the opportunity to complete the same. We believe that the important thing here and now is that there is a clear dialogue between the state, municipalities and the Migration Agency so that the time when the law is now in force will be handled in the best possible way. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have always argued that alternative need for protection should be given the same right to family reunification as refugees. It is important for children to be able to reunite with their parents, and if possible in their home country. In the EU, 25 Member States have said yes to the so-called family reunification directive, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers in 2003. The directive sought to establish common rules for the exercise of the right to family reunification of third-country nationals residing legally in the territory of one of the Member States. I have noted that the proposal for alternative protection needs to be granted the right to family reunification has been described as the fact that Sweden stands out, or that we are becoming so incredibly generous. These are statements that I believe are based on very fragile foundations. The fact is that 14 out of 25 Member States already grant subsidiary protection-needed rights to family reunification under the same conditions as refugees. It is, therefore, even before our decision here today that a majority of the countries included in the directive are. The second thing that has been circulating, not least on social media, is a series of estimates of what the proposal provides in the form of an increase in the number of asylum seekers and related matters. Figures have been published saying that between 30 000 and up to 300 000 – that is a figure I have heard mentioned – more people would come because of today's decision. But it is the Migration Agency that is the authority responsible for forecasts, and they have made estimates of today's decisions. They believe that the number of asylum seekers will increase by 500 this year, 1 000 next year and 1 000 in 2021. The Migration Agency believes that the connection cases during the period will increase by somewhere between 10 900 and 12 800 compared to the temporary law we have today. It may be worth pointing out that, despite the increase, even if it is limited, this is at the same time a reduction of 5 000 asylum seekers compared with a return to the Aliens Act. Madam President, I would like For several years, we Christian Democrats have been calling for a parliamentary committee on migration policy, which will allow us, with a broad agreement, to create a migration policy that lasts over time. It is definitely important that Sweden gets a predictable and legally secure migration law. Although there has been a majority in this House to set up such a committee, nothing has happened until Friday. We Christian Democrats believe that a review of the whole Aliens Act is needed and that we need to develop a new migration policy that brings Swedish reception to an average Nordic level. If we look at the last five years, we see that Sweden alone has received far more than twice as many asylum seekers as the other countries in the Nordic countries have done together. A Nordic average level would mean that current search pressures would decrease by 70 per cent. Why compare with the Nordic countries? On the one hand, it is our neighbourhood, and on the other hand, it is these countries that remind us of our own country. The Nordic countries have a general welfare, strong democratic institutions and a high level of legal certainty. In these countries there is a high level of trust between people, and there is strong confidence in the democratic institutions. Despite the similarities, Sweden stands out. Over the past five years, 320 000 people have applied for asylum in Sweden while more than 150 000 people have applied for asylum in Norway, Denmark, Finland and Iceland combined. Two thirds of all asylum applications made in the Nordic countries are made here in Sweden. I am not prepared to explain here today what measures we need to come up with, but I am prepared to make it clear here today that we Christian Democrats want to work towards a migration policy that allows Sweden's reception to be adapted to the Nordic average level. Last Friday, the government presented the directive to the committee to be set up. We saw then that they have chosen not to take the holistic approach. I believe that this means that a golden opportunity is lost to create sustainable legislation with broad parliamentary support, in which, for example, we will have to discuss questions about how to achieve effective return and how to qualify for our welfare systems. I look forward to the parliamentary work of the Committee and hope that there will be room for important talks about how we can stop people who are taking huge risks to come here, help those who are in greatest need, stop smuggling, help more people on the ground, hold families together, ensure that those who do not have protection reasons do not actually stay, ensure that Sweden receives according to its capacity and so on. Finally, Madam President, we Christian Democrats want a sustainable migration policy in which we safeguard the right to seek asylum and where we see and take moral responsibility for people fleeing under well-founded fear of their lives. However, the large reception that Sweden has had over a long period of years must be broken, as it has led to serious integration problems. We have a mountain of debt of unpaid integration bills. People who have fled to Sweden have certainly had dreams and hopes for a better life but may instead be stuck in unemployment, passivity and exclusion. Shadow societies, gang crime and honorary culture have been allowed to thrive, and the community has in many places been allowed to crumble to unrecognizable. The debt must be paid. It will require a better and more courageous migration policy, a policy that understands that language and work are keys, but that real integration also requires a community based on respect for culture and values. If we are to do this, we need a policy of migration with both the heart and the brain. I would like to conclude by wishing the President and everyone else who serves here, my colleagues in the committee and all of you who sit here or present the television a really nice and blessed summer.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-676	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Eklind for the explanations on the strange position of the Christian Democrats here. Nevertheless, I feel obliged to start by pointing out that it is actually perfectly possible to vote in ways other than buying the whole package or rejecting the whole package and going back to 2015. Both we and the Moderates will act in that way. I still hope that you at least agree with the Moderate reservation, which does not imply any changes other than rejection of what is changing now. There's a lot I could talk about. I leave it to your Youth League to argue about how your current family reunification policy actually divides families. Instead, I am going to take note of one point in the speech that made me react quite a lot. There is talk of numbers, of how family rules will affect how many people come to our country or not. In fact, between 500 and 1 000 more asylum seekers per year and up to 10 000 more family migrants in the next few years are quite large figures. These are very large figures when we already have a situation where over 20 000 a year apply for asylum, and up to 60 000 a year are expected to apply to be a relative. But the figure that stuck out most was when Hans Eklind said that this actually puts us 5 000 below what would apply if we went back to the legislation in 2015 – 5 000 below what would apply if we had the same legislation that caused the huge migration crisis in 2015. It can hardly be considered small numbers this is all about, can it?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-681	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Paula Bieler, for the comments! As far as the Youth League is concerned, I think they are better at arguing for their policies. I'm arguing for the party's politics. As an old youth union president, I know that the task of a youth union is to push forward on a number of issues. It's not always the same. We want the alternative need for protection to be granted the right to family reunification. I made that clear in my speech. For this reason, we believe that there is an improvement in the proposal now before us. When it comes to how to deal with this, one can of course think: Is it giving this right to alternative protection that creates volumes? In that case, Paula Bieler will help me understand why the 14 out of 25 countries that already have this right do not have these volumes. Why is the search pressure for these countries not much higher? It must reasonably be something else, I think, which is behind choosing Sweden. In any case, I cannot see, on the basis of statistics and forecasts, that the right to family reunification for alternative protection is the problem if we now want to reduce volumes. If so, there are other things that need to be corrected. But please inform me, Paula, if you have figures showing that in these 14 out of 25 countries that already have this right there has been a search pressure that we must have avoided by not having this right.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-686	I would remind you that all the speakers speak through the President.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-687	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the answer, although it was not a correct answer about the size, and for the counter-question. Many streams are a well-known expression. There are many aspects that have made Sweden historically and still top in terms of the number of asylum seekers. One is of course that when we already have a large diaspora in the country, this in itself will cause more people to come here. However, it is a fact that what rules we have, including the possibility of so-called family reunification, affects both migration flows to Sweden, directly and indirectly, and migration flows in the world. Do families stick together, or don't they stick together? The question I asked and to which I did not get an answer is whether these are affordable numbers. Do the Christian Democrats think that it is reasonable in the situation where Sweden today finds itself with a health crisis and a welfare crisis, which the Christian Democrats themselves often point out, to open up to this and also to remove the supply requirement? As I said in my speech, I fully understand that families want to live together. In fact, I do not fully understand the desire to place additional financial burdens on Swedish taxpayers at a stage when the municipality after the municipality is talking about crises, when we do not have a functioning integration and when one could instead create additional incentives to get people into work by saying: Bring your family here, but support it too!
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-691	Madam President, I would like The difference between Paula Bieler and me is that I think it is perfectly possible to have a migration policy in which we give the right for families divided to reunite here in Sweden if it is not possible to reunite in their home country. I also believe that it is beneficial for us if we are to succeed in the integration challenge that I pointed out in my speech, namely the debt we have to pay. Allowing families to reunite is, in my view, a very important integration measure if we are to make it work. If, for example, I as a father have been separated from my wife and children, it may not be with the grammar and words of the Swedish language or how our culture works and what values are here at the top of my agenda. Concern for my wife and children will always be a priority. I believe that family reunification can help to give Sweden better integration. There's been a break. Then I was clear, I think myself, that we need – and we Christian Democrats want to contribute to it – to find the tools and the measures needed to bring down the search pressure. We cannot continue to receive this many people unless we are able to integrate. I usually say that migration policy must take into account the ability to integrate people. I suspect that these are other things than perhaps just the legislative ones that we need to look at. How to qualify for welfare systems, for example, I mentioned in my speech. I think that, if we can do it differently, that is the kind of factor that we really need to look at. I'll just answer it like that. However, family reunification is in the proposal that has been put forward and on which we today have to deal and decide. We are Christian Democrats for that. Families should be kept together.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-697	Madam President, I would like The other day you could read in Svenska Dagbladet that the Christian Democrats want us to reduce immigration drastically. They want to reduce the search pressure by 70%, which corresponds to the level in the other Nordic countries. We Moderates welcome the fact that the Christian Democrats have joined the line that the Moderates have been pursuing for a while now, but if 70% for asylum seekers is to become a reality, we need a migration policy that is more rigorous than now and not more generous. Yet the Christian Democrats today vote in favour of increased immigration. I'm having a bit of a hard time getting this line of reasoning together. The Finnish Immigration Service's forecasts, which Hans Eklind mentioned in his speech, show, on the one hand, more asylum seekers and, on the other hand, more than 8,000 more family immigrants just next year as a result of the proposal that the Christian Democrats are voting for today. It sounded on Hans Eklind as a tt it is not so much. In a situation where Sweden last year had the second highest number of asylum applications per inhabitant in the EU, and where we had an asylum-related level of 42 000 residence permits, I think that is a great deal. We must not forget the extensive integration problems we have in Sweden. I believe that we have a human duty to give those who have come here a real chance to enter society. Finally, I do not understand the reasoning that it would not be possible to vote in favour of maintaining existing legislation because it is not clear. What we have now must surely be considered to have been investigated, and I believe that it is perfectly possible to do as the Moderates and vote in favour of maintaining the line that we have now.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-700	Madam President, I would like The proposal we have here today means that the right to family reunification is also granted to those in need of protection. We welcome this Christian Democrats. As I said in the exchange of views with Paula Bieler and in my speech, I think that the big issue that we really need to tackle together is how to achieve better integration in Sweden. We have an integration debt to pay off, and I firmly believe that it is easier for a person to be integrated into Swedish society if he does not have to worry about what is going on with the children, the real half or whoever it is. I think that the possibility of family reunification plays well in our ambition as Christian Democrats to ensure that we have a society in which we live with each other, not next to each other. Maria asked a number of questions, but I still argue that we absolutely cannot have rules that completely deviate from our world. However, the right to family reunification for alternative dependants is not such a case. The majority of the European Union already has this right, and we are in fact in favour of a majority. It is not this issue that makes us stand out. A few months ago, a report showed that in 2013, when Sweden moved from temporary residence permits to permanent residence permits for people from Syria, something happened. Then we went out. We were the only ones to make this adjustment, and we saw that the search pressure for Sweden was increasing in that situation. But the question of alternative protection is not such a question.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-704	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Hans Eklind. Like the Christian Democrats, we are calling for a broad migration investigation and a broad policy for sustainable migration. However, the study that the Christian Democrats are asking for in their motion, which we are discussing in today's report, includes an additional asylum basis in addition to the extended family immigration. There are therefore two reforms that are pointed out and that we want to see in the future and that lead to more immigration, not less. I honestly find it difficult to reconcile this with the long-term policy outlined in the article in Svenska Dagbladet. How can immigration be reduced as drastically as it is said to want if, at the same time, we in this House vote time and again in favour of more extensive immigration? We can see that most other countries that have a right to family immigration for alternative persons have not had nearly the great reception of asylum that Sweden has had in recent years. It is clear that the more asylum seekers you have, the more family immigration follows the following years. We must take this into account. Hans Eklind said in his main speech that he did not want to go into the concrete measures that could lead to the Christian Democrats achieving the goal set out in the article in Svenska Dagbladet, but I am very curious to hear a little about how you think that you can achieve it, given that you now again and again vote for more extensive immigration.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-708	Madam President, I would like I've already been inside and touched the answer a couple of times. One of the answers that I think is reasonable to give is that we need to review our welfare systems if we are to bring down the volume that is seeking to Sweden, compared with the other Nordic countries. It is not how the Aliens Act is prescribed that makes there are differences between the Nordic countries, such as Finland and Sweden, but these two countries still have completely different search prints. It depends on a number of things, but one thing that has been demonstrated to me is access to welfare systems. This should be reviewed in Sweden, and we are prepared to do so. We are prepared to do a number of different things, but we should not get caught in just that part. It is also about those who come here, and I know that Maria and I fully agree on that. We will have, for example, entry jobs similar to some form of apprenticeship, we will have a two-year vocational school with a degree and we will have a compulsory language preschool for children who come here. There are many different measures and tools that we in the Swedish Parliament must agree on if we are to succeed in this. What I think is important and which I would like to conclude with is that we Christian Democrats want to reduce the search pressure in Sweden. That is absolutely the case. It is important that we see that this is a way for us to ensure that we meet the integration challenge in a good way over the next few years. We have shortcomings in housing and so on that we have to correct, and it will take time. It is also important, now that I have the chance to finish, that we ensure legal certainty. We Christian Democrats are fighting for an inspection on migration issues precisely because it is a complex matter we have at the moment, so that people who get a yes or a no do not get this on incorrect grounds.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-713	I would like to remind you and welcome the fact that Members speak through the President and use their first and last names.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-714	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 10 in paragraph 7 of the report. We are now considering an extension of the Temporary Asylum Act, which was introduced in Sweden in 2016 as a result of the major refugee crisis that took place in 2015. Let me start, however, by looking outside Sweden and also outside Europe. We are living today in a world of enormous humanitarian disasters and huge migrations, where people have not themselves chosen to leave their homes. We see countries torn to pieces. South Sudan, a new country that not many years ago celebrated its independence, is torn to pieces today in bitter internal battles. The Democratic Republic of Congo and many other African countries are in a very difficult situation as a result of civil wars and various forms of conflict. We see terrorism spreading around the world, and we now have to deal with a situation with children and others left behind by the IS and Daish terrorists in Syria. The number of people from Syria who are registered refugees in neighbouring countries – Lebanon, Turkey, Jordan, Kurdistan and so on – amounts to around 5 million. It doesn't really matter in which direction we're looking. We can go all the way to Latin America and look at what's happening in Venezuela. There 4 million people have been forced to leave their homes. For me as a liberal, it is in my heart to see these enormous tragedies around the world. At the same time, of course, we know that Sweden is a small country, with 10 million inhabitants. We know that Sweden cannot help the whole world. But it is very painful to see that so many countries in the world, yet rich, prosperous, functioning and democratic, are completely closing their doors. One could wish that the countries that say they do not want to receive any refugees in return said: We are increasing our support for humanitarian aid interventions – to UNHCR, the World Food Programme, UN Ocha. But we don't see that either. We see chronic under-financing of humanitarian aid agencies. I shall begin my speech at this end, Madam President, because this is connected. As the situation is now in large parts of the Middle East, in northern Africa, in the Horn of Africa, in sub-Saharan Africa and in the Sahara, in parts of Latin America and eastern Asia, in Myanmar/ Burma and so on, we will see new refugee disasters and new flows of refugees. People have very little to return to, and life in refugee camps is ultimately totally unbearable. Sweden has taken a great deal of responsibility for many years. We have helped many people to build a future in our country. It is important that now that we have to deal with our situation, cross-blocking and with a broader consensus than we have been able to achieve in the past, we actually create a long-term sustainable migration policy for our country. We can't help everyone. This means that we must also set clear priorities. On the Liberal side, the priority is very clear. People who need protection should be allowed to stay in Sweden and get it. But that means, at the other end, that people who do not need protection must accept a refusal decision from Swedish authorities and be prepared to leave Sweden. However, a long-term sustainable migration policy cannot deviate significantly from the regulatory framework that exists in the countries around us. Politics is not sustainable in the long term if that is the case. And we must protect our right to asylum. The right of asylum means that if you have a need for protection and get a consent, you can stay in Sweden. It can be temporary, and one can return later when the situation in the home country improves. But it can also mean a temporary residence permit that is then extended and later leads to a permanent residence permit in Sweden. However, Madam President, the need for a long-term sustainable migration policy cannot be stressed enough. What we have seen in recent years is a patchwork of temporary laws and derogations, different lengths of residence permits for people, and that of some kind of goodwill specific groups are selected and treated differently from other people in the asylum system and so on. That policy is not working. It also means that it will be very difficult to interpret and predict, and this ultimately creates legal uncertainty, which is very worrying. For this reason, we in the Liberals welcome the Parliamentary Committee, which is now to develop a long-term sustainable asylum and migration policy for Sweden. We know that, according to the directives which have now been presented and which we in the Liberals have also been involved in working on, this investigation does not cover all areas. But we can see that there are some areas where goals can be achieved. Other important issues can be raised in other ways during the journey, perhaps in other investigations or in other ways through regulations, directives to authorities and so on. We want the parliamentary committee to combine humanism with realism. Hum anism means that Sweden should continue to be a country that stands up for people who are forced to flee and come here. But realism is also needed, just as the previous speaker from the Christian Democrats spoke about. Sweden must have a migration policy that involves levels that our society can handle in terms of housing, interpreters, the labour market and opportunities to build a functioning life in Sweden, so that we do not get a development with areas that become isolated enclaves, where almost no children in schools can speak Swedish or learn Swedish. This, of course, is a devastating development for our country, which is tearing up the social contract that is so important. Sweden will be there, but we will do it in a way that our country can manage in the long term. In connection with the extension of the Temporary Act, a change is made which means that the group of persons with a residence permit who are otherwise in need of protection is now also entitled to family reunification. This is something that we in the Liberals support. We do not think it is worthy of Sweden with a situation where perhaps a father is in Sweden and has a wife and children in a refugee camp in Jordan. We think that in such situations it must be possible to reunite in Sweden or elsewhere, for that matter. But it should also be possible in Sweden so that people can build a future in our country. In doing so, Madam President, I would like to wish the President, the Members, the audience and all the officials here a very pleasant summer.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-731	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. For the sake of clarity, I also urge that the motion for a resolution tabled by Paula Bieler from the Swedish Democrats be rejected. Due to the refugee situation in 2015, the number of asylum seekers in Sweden was high and the challenges for the asylum system were considerable, as many here have previously addressed. Other central functions of society were also heavily burdened. The government then proposed a number of measures to reduce the number of asylum seekers. One of the measures was the Temporary Act, which entered into force on 20 July 2016 and provided for a minimum level of EU law and international conventions. The Temporary Act expires on 20 July this year. Sweden is still one of the EU Member States that receives the highest number of asylum seekers in relation to the population. The record number of asylum seekers in 2015 continues to pose challenges in Swedish society, including the establishment of new arrivals. This applies, for example, to areas such as housing, schools, labour market measures and social welfare, which have also been mentioned earlier by several Members. Therefore, our proposal is both continued validity of the Act on temporary restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden and changes to the same law. In addition to extending the period of validity of the Act until 19 July 2021, both persons in need of subsidiary protection and refugees shall have the right to family reunification. In addition, a provision on permanent residence permits is introduced in certain cases for foreigners born in Sweden and since birth are stateless. The amendments to the Act and subsequent amendments to the Aliens Act are proposed to enter into force already on 20 July this year. As a result of the proposal on the continued validity of the Temporary Act, it is also proposed that the Act on residence permits for students at upper secondary level should enter into force on 20 July 2021 and expire on 20 January 2025. Within the EU, negotiations are underway on a new common framework for the asylum and refugee situation. There, Sweden has been a strong driver for a common EU asylum law in which everyone should take joint and several responsibility. Madam President, I would like At home, a parliamentary committee is now being set up, which has been strongly sought after, particularly by the Moderates, with whom I have had many debates in this House on this very subject, which will take a position on the design of the future Swedish migration policy with a view to establishing a regime that is sustainable in the long term. The Committee will consider the broad national regulation of asylum policy, which will be required in addition to the regulatory framework to be established by the revised European asylum system. The starting point is that migration policy should be humane, legally secure and effective. It shall ensure that individual grounds of protection are taken into account in applications for asylum and that Sweden's international commitments are respected, such as those resulting from the United Nations Convention on the Status of Refugees, the so-called Geneva Convention, and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the European Convention. Migration policy should respond to society's need to be able to plan for basic public services to people who settle in Sweden and give them good opportunities to establish themselves in the country. In a changing environment, it will reduce the need for temporary solutions and ensure a permanent order with broad support in the Swedish Parliament. The Committee shall, inter alia, consider questions relating to temporary or permanent residence permits, on which grounds a residence permit is to be granted, whether a humanitarian basis for a residence permit is to be introduced, to what extent family immigration is to be possible and whether a supply requirement is to apply and, if so, how such a requirement should be formulated. I am quite sure that Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson will refer to the parliamentary committee, which has therefore been very much in demand from several quarters. At the time of the provisional law, the government considered that it was compatible with the European Convention to allow family reunification to last for the three years that the temporary law was to apply, given the great strain that the Swedish asylum system and other central functions of society had suffered as a result of the large number of asylum seekers. In order to eliminate any risk that the Swedish rules violate the ECHR or any other Swedish convention obligation, there is therefore a valve in Section 13 of the Temporary Act. This provision allows for an individual examination in each individual case, taking into account inter alia the relationship between family members and the right of the associate to family reunification. Madam President, I would like Although the load on the reception system is still high, the situation is not as strained as when the temporary law was introduced. The restrictions on alternative protection may therefore, in the event of an extension of the duration of the Temporary Act, be contrary to the ECHR in more cases than in the past. Re-entry of family reunification for alternative protection is humanitarianly desirable and will facilitate integration. This is also shown by several investigations. Therefore, it was with surprise that I heard Moderate Maria Malmer Stenergards's post here, where she described how children leave school and have their graduation day. We know that many parents miss their children just at the moment of graduation or, on the contrary, that children miss their parents who are in a completely different place in the world. That is why I was very surprised by that particular speech. The Migration Court of Appeal has also examined the question of whether a decision to refuse family reunification would be contrary to a Swedish convention. On balance, the Court found that the family's interest in reuniting outweighed the state's interest in reducing the number of asylum seekers due to efforts on the asylum system. Even if a change is made, the valve in Section 13 of the Temporary Act should continue to apply to exceptional cases where under the ECHR there may be a right to family reunification with others than the nuclear family. In cases involving children, the portal clause on the best interests of the child should also be taken into account. We also look forward to the Convention on the Rights of the Child which will enter into force on 1 January 2020 and hope to see that it also clarifies that courts and administrative authorities will take into account the rights deriving from the Convention. I appreciate much of what Fredrik Malm from the Liberals said in his speech on support for UNHCR and others. It is high on Sweden's part, but it would also have to be maintained from many other countries. I support much of what Mr Malm has said here. I agree with the importance of an agreement between several parties on a long-term sustainable system for these issues. In this debate we have heard that there are considerable differences between the different parties. It would be good if we could come up with opinions, views and legislative proposals that over time are sustainable.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-744	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carina Ohlsson! I have two questions that I would like to ask Carina Ohlsson as a Social Democrat and a feminist. The first concerns what I mentioned about family reunification, namely that a certain legalised cohabitation is required before you come to Sweden in order to be able to have family reunification. As I mentioned in my speech, this means that people who have not been able to live together in the past – homosexuals, bisexuals, transsexuals, queer people or couples whose relationship has not been accepted by families, for example, for reasons of honour – are being squeezed. I wonder how Carina Ohlsson sees this as a feminist. The second issue concerns women who are victims of violence. The two-year rule has been debated for a very long time. We know that it certainly has its shortcomings, but there is still an opportunity for women who have been subjected to more severe violence to obtain a permanent residence permit. But it is not with the extension of the temporary law. I wonder how Carina Ohlsson views that.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-747	Madam President, I would like These are highly relevant questions that I get from Christina Höj Larsen from the Left Party. We should always have the feminist questions in mind. Christina Höj Larsen knows that for a long time I have brought this issue forward with family reunification precisely because we know that there are many women and children who have not had the opportunity to get asylum in Sweden. I therefore very much look forward to having that change of law now and that this is made possible. When we talk about the situation of women and children, it is also important that we have increased the number of quota refugees, because we know that it is also aimed at women and children. When it comes to family reunification and making it clear that there is a relationship as well as that there is a relationship and so on, I want to ensure that we also follow up if there are opportunities. We have the valve in Section 13, which I mentioned, but we must follow up and see if there are other reasons and opportunities when it comes to family reunification. As I also work with violent women, I know that there are also women who have been granted a residence permit – but not a permanent residence permit, as Christina Höj Larsen pointed out – because they have been subjected to violence. It is a question that I will not leave but will continue to monitor.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-750	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carina Ohlsson, for your answer. I thought it might have been a little vague and a little difficult to understand, because what is happening is not really about women and children – even if it can do so – but it is about transgender people and honorable people or couples who have a homosexual or bisexual relationship and who have not been able to live together before. They have not had the opportunity to do so. That is not part of this, so I find it difficult to understand Carina Ohlsson's answer to that question. In the case of women who are victims of violence, it is not only the case that this possibility of permanent residence permits is not included in the extension of the temporary law, but it is also the case that the two-year law is de facto a five-year law. Instead of two years, it takes five years. As a feminist, of course, I find it totally unacceptable. It should be the case for women who have family immigrants, just like for everyone else, that you should be able to go at the first battle. They should not have to endure either two years or five years.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-753	Madam President, I would like I raised family reunification in general and also said that it is important to keep this valve so that it should still be possible to apply on other grounds. I have always made it clear that this does not open up for all groups of asylum seekers to receive asylum. That's it. I want to be honest with you there, otherwise I would have stood here and really been unclear – if now clarity is called for. We will continue to look at this in the parliamentary committee. Important issues can be, as I said, whether there are humanitarian and asylum reasons other than those we have today. When it comes to women exposed to violence, it is extremely important to also work preventively so that you should not be in that situation. I think there's a lot more to do there. We know that many of the men, as it often is, have abused several women. I think we should do more in terms of prevention to ensure that no one is in that situation. Above all, it concerns children. We must therefore work both preventively and see what is achieved in the parliamentary committee.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-758	Madam President, I would like In the autumn of 2015, after long negotiations, the Center Party and the other alliance parties concluded a migration agreement with the Red Green Government. There were both points about speeding up integration and supporting municipalities' very stressed situation and such things as temporary residence permits and tightening up the livelihood requirements for family immigration. Just a few weeks after the agreement was presented, the government chose to go much further than we had agreed and presented the Temporary Asylum Act. It meant, among other things, that the vast majority who fled here from war Syria lost the right to reunite with their children and that some of the most vulnerable lost their only opportunity to stay here. We in the Center Party therefore chose, there and then, to vote against. However, quite exactly two years ago, the parliamentary majority voted through the Temporary Asylum Act. A lot has happened since then. Restrictions have been introduced throughout Europe, and agreements have been reached with both Turkey and Libya. Today, the number of asylum seekers in Sweden is the lowest in 13 years. Of the approximately 20 000 per year applying for asylum, 70% are currently refused. So far less than 20 000 people are allowed to stay here. It should be remembered that this is happening at the same time as more than ever before are on the run around the world. Today we are here to debate an extension of the Temporary Asylum Act for another two years. But it is with an absolutely decisive change. People on protective grounds will once again be given the right to live with their families. Young children will have the opportunity to live in security with their parents. It is mainly about fathers from war Syria who have already been here for several years and who are now finally being reunited with their closest ones. This is something that we in the Center Party have fought for, and the reason why it is now becoming a reality is the agreement that we and the Liberals have entered into with the government. We have thus agreed to a two-year extension of the Temporary Act on Asylum provided that alternative persons in need of protection are again granted the right to family reunification. If the law, as it now stands, is voted through here today, it will apply until 19 July 2021. Before that, there needs to be a well-prepared and widely-based proposal on what Sweden's future migration policy should look like. On Friday, the directives were presented to the parliamentary committee which will work on this proposal until 15 August next year. That, too, is the result of the January agreement. This was something that the Center Party and several other parties promised the voters the election: that we should sit together and find a broad, sustainable agreement. We have also heard that from several others here. At last, we have directives in place which give the Committee the task of resolving the issues governed by the Temporary Asylum Act, such as temporary or permanent residence permits, the right to family immigration and any associated supply requirements. In addition, the Committee shall consider in particular whether to introduce a new humanitarian basis for residence permits. One should also make an international outlook and analyse which factors in Sweden contribute to individuals choosing to apply for asylum here. This means getting a broader mandate that allows room to discuss even major changes. It will also analyse the need for measures to redirect so that more of those who come to Sweden do so via safe and legal ways. This is something that has been very important to us in the Center Party. The Committee shall also analyse the need for further measures to strengthen legal certainty in the asylum process. It is a point that will be able to accommodate many of the important and very difficult discussions that have taken place in recent years. The directives give a broad mandate to the Committee, and we think that is very good. All parliamentary parties are invited to the committee, and I very much hope that we will manage to take this opportunity and make something really good out of it. On the part of the Center Party, we are prepared to listen to all ideas, thoroughly examine each proposal and change if the arguments are good enough. We really want to find the best solutions. At the same time, of course, we have a wide range of own proposals that we will be enthusiastically presenting when the work begins. At the same time, we understand that it will require really difficult compromises. It will take great humility for as many parties as possible to be able to unite, and it is absolutely essential for migration policy to have any chance at all to hold over time. There must be an end to temporary, hasty solutions in migration policy, and I hope that the parliamentary committee can find a better way forward in this. Having said that, I am in favour of the committee's proposal in the report and refer to the special opinion of the Centre Party.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-773	Madam President, I would like I will not make any longer speeches or ask a particularly complicated question. I am pleased to note that the parliamentary inquiry has been given a broader mandate than it seemed at first. But there is quite a lot to catch until August 15 next year. You'll have about a year. At the same time, Johanna Jönsson states that it is very important that there should be a long-term perspective, that many, if not all, parties should be able to agree on rather big features, that it is necessary that this is in place before the temporary law expires and that one should not have more rushed and sudden decisions. The question I have is simple. There will be a proposal for a consultation so that it is possible to have a clear law in place when we are there in a year's time. I find it difficult to see that there are real possibilities for this, but does Johanna Jönsson believe that it is possible to achieve results in such a short time? Then my follow-up questions will be: If we do not have time, will we work to extend the temporary law and the time of the investigation? Will it be done early enough for us to do serious work? Or will this, unfortunately, run out into the sand?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-778	Madam President, I would like Our absolute ambition is to do what we can to ensure that this does not run into the sand. If we had our own majority, we would have made sure that this does not happen. But there is a need for a sufficient number of parties to be involved. That's the truth. We can't decide for ourselves. As far as the short time is concerned, everything is relative. Is a year really that short in time to come up with something good? It always depends on how hard you work and how well prepared you are. Those of us who sit in here have had plenty of time – many years – to work out our proposals and to ensure that they are well thought out on all aspects of migration policy. Hopefully when we sit there we are well prepared and can thus find the best arguments for and against. If this were not to happen, if necessary, it is clearly stated in the directives that the Committee would be asked to propose further studies in certain parts. Major changes may need to be made and may need further investigation. We have heard from other parties today that proposals have been discussed about qualifying into welfare. It is also something that we have been saying for years. It would probably require more investigations in order to implement a change. At the same time, something needs to be in place when the Temporary Asylum Act expires. Nor are we in favour of returning to what was previously the case. We have thought about these issues once the directives have been written. We have worked to ensure that the law is as broad, well established and thought out as possible. But we will also need to see how far we are going in the course of time.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-783	Madam President, I would like I thank Johanna Jönsson for her reply. It's good to have thought. I am the first to agree that there should have been plenty of time to work out a more serious migration policy. As I must point out in this connection, we have been pointing out the risks of the previous migration policy for a long time. Having said that, I still do not have a full answer to the question. It is good that there is the possibility of setting up further investigations, but part of my question was about what happens if there are only fragments of new legislation in place when the temporary law expires? Will the fragments be rushed up and in place so that we continue to build on a patchwork cover, or will it be prepared to extend the temporary law in further steps to have a thorough, a little broader, if not comprehensive, proposal that we will decide on when the temporary law expires?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-786	Madam President, I would like Our entry point is that the law needs to be worked out during the time that passes. If we stand there and the best solution is to extend the temporary law for another year in order to achieve something really good, then we will be prepared to do so. If it is better to go in and make some changes while setting up further investigations, we will do so. We are really open to listening to others, arguing for our cause and ensuring that the law is as good as possible. It is indeed our ambition to develop a migration policy that contains things that are important to us, namely humanism and humanity, but where there is also order and order. There are two parts to this. We sit on the committee with an open mind and with the ambition to do this as well as possible. I would just like to point out that Paula Bieler's statement that the risks have been pointed out for many years is not the same as making sustainable proposals on how to resolve the situation. It's one thing to stand and whine alongside and talk about everything that's bad– a lot of people do, and a lot of people have been doing it for a long time– it's a completely different matter to come up with elaborate policy proposals in the area of migration that actually hold. It's not at all as easy.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-788	Madam President, I would like The temporary law was announced in November 2015, decided in plenary quite exactly three years ago and entered into force in July 2016. It is a law that has made it considerably more difficult to come to Sweden and then stay in Sweden. There have also been other changes in the world around us, it has become more difficult to get into Europe and through Europe, but there are currently far fewer asylum seekers than there were in 2015 and even the years before. Should the decision today be to reject the proposal to extend the temporary law, the old Aliens Act would apply from the expiry of the current law. Sometimes in the public debate you can get the impression that the previous legislation allowed anyone to come to Sweden and be granted a residence permit. That was not the case – far from it. For 100 years, or even more, we have had regulated immigration to Sweden, and over time it has also become increasingly regulated. Madam President, I would like Today, the Left Party votes against the bill. If it had obtained the approval of the House, it would have meant that we would have returned to the order in force until 2015. If we on the Green Party had been an opposition party – as the Left Party – we would most probably have done so today too. But the Green Party has made a different choice. We are part of the government, but we have agreed on the January agreement with two other parties, as you know. That is why, today, we will vote in favour of extending the temporary law, and we are doing so also because we have achieved some extremely important improvements. I am pleased that the Left Party remains and is pushing, and I am also extremely happy about civil organisations and people who in various ways are pushing for Sweden to be a country that stands for humanity and openness. Madam President, I would like Let me first say something about the background. After the elections last autumn it was a prolonged and turbulent political period. The result of the elections was not really a surprise, but it was several months of exploratory talks, press conferences, presidential rounds, coffeetime sessions and deliberations. It was close to Christmas, but instead the budget was adopted. It was an M-KD budget that also received the votes of the Swedish Democrats, which won approval in the Riksdag. Only after Christmas did we have a new government, which was not new. In this sense, it was the same parties, but it was a new political landscape because in addition to the government parties the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party also made the Center Party and Liberals up about politics. The agreement, the January agreement, is an extremely important agreement. It gives Sweden the opportunity to take a different path from what many other countries have done where nationalist parties and conservative parties have been given a decisive influence on politics. Look at our closest neighbour Denmark. From the Green Party we mean that Sweden should not suffer from the Danish state. The January agreement stipulates that the temporary law that we have to deal with today is extended for two years. At the same time, a parliamentary committee is set up with representatives from all parties to review the future migration policy. The directives became public on Friday. An extremely important change is that it will now be possible for family reunification for alternative protection needs. Anyone who has children can try to imagine what it would be like to be on the run from war and come to a country knowing that partners and children are in refugee camps on another continent or continent. I think that anyone who criticises this change should try to understand the extent of what this would mean. In this context, I would like to commend the Christian Democrats for agreeing with the decision that divided families should be able to be reunited. In other contexts, I am not prepared to give the same praise to the Christian Democrats. In a debate article the other day in Svenska Dagbladet, the Christian Democrats state that they want Sweden to have an immigration policy at the Nordic level. I wonder what changes this means in concrete terms. We can look at our neighbours. Denmark, for example, has introduced a wide range of restrictions and deteriorations. The former immigration minister in Denmark used to celebrate the restrictions with cake-eating and put it on social media. In Denmark there has also been a so-called ghetto package – they actually call it that – containing search zones, various penalties in different areas, confiscation of asylum seekers' property and so on. In fact, I think that the Christian Democrats must put into practice what parts they are prepared to introduce. I can turn the question around: is there any limit to what can actually be done? If you want to have a harmonised level, it also means that if a country wants to go further, it is always willing to follow. Now Denmark has a new government. Hopefully, changes can be made to this. But I think that the Christian Democrats are guilty of the answer to what they are prepared to do. Madam President, I would like As I said, the directives of this parliamentary committee became public on Friday. There will be a broad investigation that will investigate many of the issues included in this temporary law. It is about whether we should have temporary or permanent residence permits. It's about the rules for family immigration. The Committee will also examine a new humanitarian protection base, as stated in the January agreement. In the light of the political discussion today, I am very pleased that we can see that steps are being taken forward as in the area of family reunification. However, the decision to extend this law also means, of course, that we have a continued restrictive and tough migration policy with short and temporary residence permits and that many of those who are not allowed to stay and who are seriously ill should actually be allowed to stay. This means, then, that all the deteriorations made three years ago are prolonged. For those of us who meet young people who have come from other countries, who want to start their new lives in Sweden and who want to get into Sweden for real, it is not fun to give this message. The environmental party's message today and beyond is that we will work for humanity, humanism, solidarity, the rule of law and for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to also mean something in reality. We will work for that in every situation and in every question.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-806	Madam President, I would like I had planned to wait to replicate until the government representative Morgan Johansson had spoken. But now I'm becoming a little unsure whether the government is really represented by the Green Party. Rasmus Ling here speaks of thanking the Left Party for representing humanity. Then you reject the government's policy and say that if you had not been in the government, you would have voted as the Left Party will today, that is, for a return to the rules that we had before 2015. My question is very brief and very simple: what policy does the Green Party really stand for?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-809	Madam President, I would like I do not know whether Maria Stenergard listened to my speech, but I was very clear that we have chosen the path that we have made deals and are working in that direction and that I am very pleased that we have made these changes. I respect the choices made by the Left Party, the Moderates and other parties. I am very pleased that we on our part have made this deal with three other parties, and the Social Democrats are with us in the government. I wholeheartedly support the fact that we have made this choice, that we are getting this change and are doing this extension and that we are going to have this investigation that is going to look at all these issues. I do not think there should be any doubt about this. If Maria Stenergard had listened, she should have heard this in my speech.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-811	Madam President, I would like I listened very carefully. What was said in the main speech was not entirely consistent with what was said now. What was said now was much clearer. In his main speech, Rasmus Ling guarded himself a little bit. He said that they have certainly agreed to this but actually think that the Left Party. I have to say that is quite remarkable for a party which still claims to have some kind of government capacity. Rasmus Ling spoke of thanking the Left Party for humanity. I would like to dwell a little on this word. It's very easy to hide behind it. But doesn't Rasmus Ling think that we have a duty to all the people who have come to our country and who we have welcomed within our borders to ensure that they get a real chance to get into society, to ensure that children get the education they need and to ensure that they learn Swedish so that they can stand on their own feet and pay their own rent when they become adults? If we continue to increase immigration at the rate that the Green Party and the Left Party want, we will not be able to give them this opportunity. We are facing a huge integration failure. It is my responsibility and Rasmus Ling's to make sure that we correct it. We cannot do that by increasing immigration. Now Sweden needs a tight and sustainable migration policy if we really are to take responsibility.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-813	Madam President, I would like We obviously have a responsibility for all people who live in Sweden and who grow up in Sweden to have the opportunity to shape their lives with work and make the choices they want to make themselves. We have this responsibility for people born in Sweden, and we have it for people who have come here and who will continue to be here. There is no doubt about that. A great deal will have to be done on the housing side, on the labour market side and so on. It is a policy that we are pursuing, which we have agreed with other parties and which we are pushing forward. There is no doubt about that. The question that I think the Moderates are obliged to answer is that they talk about wanting a more strict and restrictive policy. But they don't go into it at all. Why don't you talk about the measures you want to take so that people don't go to Sweden? The Conservatives' sister party in Denmark has held the Migration Minister's portfolio. Do the Moderates want to go in that direction? Do you want to stand and celebrate 50 restrictions during the next parliamentary term, as has been done in Denmark, or what measures are you looking for in order to conduct the tight policy that Maria Malmer Stenergard is talking about?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-817	Madam President, I would like Member Ling wonders about the Christian Democrats' idea of trying to bring the search pressure down to Sweden to an average Nordic level and how it should be done. Then the honourable Member jumps right into Denmark and wonders if that is how we want to proceed. The Christian Democrats believe that the most important thing that exists in Sweden right now is that we get to the parliamentary committee so that we can achieve long-term sustainable, preferably broad, agreements. In the face of this work, we want to acknowledge colour by saying we want a migration legislation that will bring down the search pressure properly. My hope is that we will be able to agree on what measures we find most appropriate to achieve that goal, and I very much hope that the Green Party will also see the debt that is to be paid. We have not succeeded with integration in Sweden. To continue receiving the same volumes as in the past means at least we Christian Democrats is not possible. Instead, we must now see that the big political question that is poking at an answer is how to get a migration law that works over time and is predictable and legally secure, and here I think the Green Party is on the wagon. However, it is just as important that we also review volumes, because I believe that the major political challenge for a number of years to come is to ensure that exclusion and parallel societies must not continue to spread. We will live with and not next to each other in Sweden, and therefore we must do something about the search print to Sweden.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-820	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that we should strive for a society in which exclusion disappears and to become an integrated country where people grow up with equal opportunities. I also think that the ambition that we should sit together in the parliamentary committee and work constructively and forward is good. The Christian Democrats believe that it is some kind of goal to reduce volumes, as they call it. We do not want to go into measures more than in very loose terms, but we are talking about social security systems, qualifying for welfare systems and the like. In fact, I think that the answer is guilty as to what kind of measures you are prepared to take. This is particularly true in the light of the fact that we are talking about reducing the number of people who even apply for asylum in Sweden by 70%. So it is not about who is granted asylum, if I have understood correctly, but about who is even seeking asylum. If you are going to have such a policy, Madam President, which means that people do not even think it is worthwhile to seek asylum here if they are in need of protection – what measures are you prepared to take? I think it is a reasonable question for the Christian Democrats to answer.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-823	Madam President, I would like If you look at Sweden's and Finland's foreign laws, you can see that they do not live completely different lives, but on the contrary they are very similar to each other. Nevertheless, we see that the search for these two countries is quite different, and then the question is, of course, what the reason is. In the parliamentary committee, we should look internationally to perhaps find out and get a little more security in what it is that distinguishes. One of the things that distinguishes between Finland and Sweden, however, is that in Finland a patchwork has not been done with exceptions and temporary laws, but the laws that apply. This makes me even more interested in the fact that this parliamentary committee is really going to succeed in its mission, so that we have legislation in Sweden that lasts over time. I think it would also make sure that the rules of the game that apply in Sweden are clear and that we let a yes be a yes and a no be a no. Criticism of the High School Act remains on the Christian Democratic side, because it was not the reasons for asylum that were decisive for whether or not to stay in Sweden and get a new chance. However, the main reason why we Christian Democrats have now signalled how we believe that the future migration policy should be designed is that we need to reduce the search pressure. We need to bring down the volumes that come to Sweden, and for the simple reason that we need to tackle integration problems in Sweden. That is by far the most important thing we have to do in this House, I mean. I also believe – it is my firm opinion – that it is not the people who cry out for the most generous rules that are best at developing a sustainable migration policy for the future. Today, we must probably have a more rigorous view of the situation, in order to give the people who are seeking refuge here in Sweden in the future.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-827	Madam President, I would like With regard to the Upper Secondary Education Act, it is not least a question of legal certainty – that those who came here when they were under 18 and applied for asylum should actually receive the examination they would have received if there had not been such waiting times that they had reached the age of 18 or were registered at the age of 18. It is about legal certainty, not about anything else. As far as the other elements are concerned, I look forward to this committee working. There are clearly urgent issues, and my hope is that we will be able to work constructively – but also with the obvious knowledge that there are different approaches to these issues. In some of the parts, I still hope that the Christian Democrats will be able to be a force that not only protects the reuniting of nuclear families, but also has a humanistic basic view – which they have had further back – and is on the side of the weakest and most vulnerable. So we will see what this parliamentary committee will come up with, but I have good hopes that we will at least do our very best.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-830	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Parliamentary Social Security Committee for its favourable treatment of the Government's proposal. I would also like to express my particular thanks to the Centre Party and the Liberals, with whom we have cooperated on this legislative proposal. It is, as everyone knows, part of the January Agreement – more specifically, paragraph 67. It is often said that the January Agreement consists of 73 points, but in fact it is much more than that. When all the points of action to be taken are broken down, I think they are 255 measures that we have agreed to try to deliver during this term of office. In other words, it is a very broad cooperation, and here we are delivering on a couple of points. The debate here this afternoon has been exciting – but also clarification, I would say. I think that Fredrik Malm, Carina Ohlsson, Johanna Jönsson and Rasmus Ling have argued for the government's proposal in a very commendable way this afternoon, and I would like to thank you for that. However, I would also like to thank the Christian Democrats in this process. You are not part of government cooperation, but you still agree with these proposals because you – if I understand Mr Eklind correctly – believe that they are balanced. I think that's good. This means that we get even greater support behind the path we have chosen to take. I also liked the tone of the post that Hans Eklind made. Speaking of how Finland has dealt with its legislation, which came up in the last line, it is actually the case that Finland too had to tighten up its legislation in order to deal with the situation. This was done in 2016. In the Nordic countries, therefore, it is not only Sweden that has had to do some things in order to be able to cope with the situation. However, what I hear from the discussion bodes well for the future, after all. Migration policy has been the most controversial policy area in recent years. It is no wonder – the wars and conflicts in the Middle East and in Africa have affected our entire part of the world, and their consequences have dominated European politics in recent years. Sweden, together with a few other countries in Europe, has taken a huge responsibility for those who have fled war. When I visited the refugee camps in Jordan and Lebanon in the spring of 2015, the UN representative on the ground said that this was the worst humanitarian crisis of our time. She was certainly right about that. It is enough to think of IS terrible ravages in Syria and Iraq or of the Syrian regime's bombings of its own people to understand why millions of people sought their way out of these areas to simply manage their lives and find somewhere where they could start their lives again. Now Sweden has taken a great responsibility for these people. I just want to give you a figure, which you can think of: since the war in Syria broke out in 2011, Sweden has provided shelter for 175 000 Syrians. These are men, women and children who otherwise could easily have perished in a bomb plot in Homs or Aleppo. This is Sweden's largest humanitarian effort during the post-war period. It is probably our greatest humanitarian effort ever as a country. Compare with how many people came to Sweden after the Second World War in the white buses – there were about 25 000. Or compare with how many came from Hungary after the country's attempts to free itself from the Soviet Union in 1956. At that time 200 000 Hungarians fled Hungary, of which 8 000 came to Sweden. What we have done in recent years, however we count, is the greatest humanitarian effort that Sweden has made during the post-war period. But it's not just this. Sweden is also the EU country that has taken the greatest responsibility during these years for the per capita victims of the war. I think that we should be fundamentally very proud of this. We've saved thousands of lives. We have given people the opportunity for a new start and for a new life, far from the war and death from which they fled. Some of these people I met in the square in Falköping on May 1st. After my speech in the square, there came a family, so a little shy. They wanted, in broken but fully understandable Swedish, only to thank the Swedish people for having had the opportunity to start a new life here. The man had come here from Syria in 2015, and some year later the wife and children had followed. The man worked full-time in the industry. The woman was coming in; I think she was working part-time in the trade. There are many pictures of the refugees in the debate, but it is actually this picture of the family in the square in Falköping that is the common one. The debate has been, and is still, full of accident ravens and doomsday prophets. I remember the discussion we had in 2015 and 2016. A lot of people said that this would never work. They painted a horror picture of what Sweden would become. It was said that public finances would fail. It was said that Sweden would be bankrupt. It was said that unemployment would fade. It was said that there would be no chance for these people to enter the Swedish labour market. They'd get stuck in a permanent alienation, they said, and they wouldn't have a chance to get in. A few years later, we can see how it went. The truth is that the Swedish economy is stronger than it has been for a very long time. Throughout this period, public debt has fallen as a share of GDP and is now the lowest since 1977, i.e. over 40 years. When we follow unemployment year by year, we see that it has continued to fall. Employment has continued to rise; employment in Sweden is today the highest ever measured in an EU country. This increase in employment applies to both native and foreign born, and it applies to both women and men. In fact, the employment rate of women born abroad is in many ways quite remarkable when you look at it over a few years. Listen to this: After five years in Sweden, foreign-born women in Sweden have a higher employment rate than domestic women in the rest of the EU. This means that the immigrant families we are talking about, who come here, very quickly take on board the standard we have in Sweden with two breadwinners and that both men and women work. As a matter of fact, that's the way it is. The pace of entry into the labour market is accelerating. In the time of the Alliance, it took an average of over eight years before at least half of newcomers had entered the labour market. That was the truth of the Alliance's policy. Today, this figure is less than five years – it is between four and five years. It's almost half the time of establishment. After almost five years of a green government, public finances are stronger, unemployment is lower, employment is higher and integration is faster. And this, my friends, has happened despite the fact that we have received tens of thousands of refugees. Actually, it's not a bad idea at all. The Swedish model delivers on this point. This is, of course, what is at issue here: how we solve difficult tasks in our country as well. The Swedish welfare model is, in my view, well equipped to do it. For example, we can basically fall back on having a fairly well-managed country, where we share responsibility when faced with difficult tasks. We can put in adult education when needed, so that people can learn Swedish. We can stimulate housing construction through public funds, so that housing levels that are the highest in 40 years can be reached fairly quickly. We can, together with the social partners, develop fast track into the labour market. This was Ylva Johansson's major project during the last term of office. Anyone who, for example, was an electrician, painter, truck driver or worked in healthcare in Syria should be able to come in and start working with the same type of profession with a supplementary education quite quickly when the person comes to Sweden. This has also been very important. A few months ago, we blew up the mill. Today, over 1 million people born abroad work on the Swedish labour market. That is almost 20 per cent of employees. It is one in five assistant nurses, child care workers, teachers, doctors, sheet metal workers, business assistants – whatever occupations you talk about, 20% of Swedish employees are born abroad. I am convinced that Sweden would not last very long without all the workers, officials and academics who have roots in other countries. That's just the way it is. This is the result of a wide range of measures taken by the government, but it is also the result of measures taken by this House. When the situation was most difficult – now we are talking about the autumn of 2015 – the parties of the Riksdag gathered. They sat down at the table and said, ‘Is there anything we can do to agree on measures that will further improve integration in the coming years?' ..................................................... One of the most important points of that agreement, from October 2015, is that we finally got a piece of legislation in place that said that all municipalities must now be prepared to receive new arrivals. No municipality could say no. I know that there are still municipalities that do not want to but try to stand outside. However, we now have legislation in place, and the vast majority of municipalities assume the responsibilities imposed on them by this legislation. It was good that we were able to get such legislation through. Then, of course, there are all the organisations of civil society, which during these years have made a great effort both in terms of reception and in terms of integration. This is basically what distinguishes Sweden at its best – when politics, social partners and civil society gather together to solve a major task. We did so this time too. Madam President, I would like It has gone much better than some thought and predicted in 2015–2016. That is a truth in this debate. But it is also true, Madam President, that this would not have happened if we had not had the strength and the presence of mind enough to tighten up when needed. When the number of asylum seekers was highest in 2015, there were over 10 000 per week. If it had continued, no integration measures in the world would have been able to cope with the situation. Then our reception system would have collapsed. I remember very well in the autumn of 2015, when the most people came. You had to fill the buses in Malmö with asylum seekers and then drive them north without knowing if you could drop them off and they could get a roof over their heads. But then you knew that you had 10 to 12 hours to solve it along the way. That is what the emergency situation was at that time. It was absolutely necessary to break the trend in 2015. And when we received 163 000 asylum seekers that year, it eventually became a situation that even Sweden cannot cope with in the long term. We can last such a year, but we can't do two or three – not even Sweden. We therefore went in with the border controls, the ID checks and the temporary law to create the breathing space we needed to be able to take care of all those who had already arrived and to get people to also go to other countries so that we could focus on integration in Sweden. That strategy worked. After the austerity, the number of asylum seekers fell sharply, and it has continued to fall. Today we have the lowest reception of asylum in 13 years. And since 2015, the number of asylum seekers has decreased by almost 90 per cent. The proportion of applicants to Sweden has also decreased. Previously, it was up to 12 per cent of all those who came to Europe who came to Sweden. Now the figure is down to about 3 percent. The crisis situation that was in the Migration Board is long ago over. All temporary residences have been decommissioned, and this year they will be further reduced by, I believe, over 500 people. This is the result of a sharp decrease in pressure. This also means that processing times are becoming shorter and shorter. We are now simply back in a normal state again. At most, the Migration Board employed nearly 9,000 people. During this year you will be able to get down to less than 6,000. Now we have the opportunity to reflect together again on what our migration legislation will look like in the future. Today we are extending the temporary law, and it is to give us time to draft new legislation without risking us entering a new crisis. We can, as I said, complete a 2015. But we can't do two and we can't do three, and we're not going back there. Now that the number is as low as it is, we can also ease some of the legislation so that families can be reunited to a greater extent than before. It is not that we have not carried out family reunifications in these years. On the contrary, we have had quite a few family reunifications, even with the strict law. But when it comes to alternative protection, we have not had that opportunity. It is essentially a question of reuniting with family members who today may be living in the refugee camps in Jordan or Lebanon, so that a woman can be reunited with her husband and a child can be reunited with her father, such as the Falköping family, by the way. It is therefore mainly about women who are currently in refugee camps with their children now being able to reunite with their husbands in Sweden, who often already have both housing and jobs. That, of course, also makes it easier. As far as family reunification is concerned, 90% is concerned with women and children. It was necessary to limit that possibility in 2015 in order for us to be able to deal with the situation at all at the time. Now it is possible for us to reintroduce that right. But I would like to say that it is not a drama that some are trying to get it about. It is a very limited group that we are talking about. It will not lead to a new crisis. But for the women and children concerned, this is, of course, a great relief. Although we are living in a hard time with a harsh climate of debate, there must be room for humanity. With this done now, we can look forward. Last Friday we decided on the directives for the new Migration Policy Committee, which will examine future policies for a year. This week the invitations go out to the political parties to nominate for the committee. I hope, as it seems now, that all parties will want to participate in the committee. I am pleased about that, and I believe that this will ensure a good discussion forward. Future migration policy should be sustainable, humane and legally secure. A lesson from 2015 is that it cannot deviate too far from that of other EU countries. Sweden will continue to take responsibility for fleeing people, but we must do so in an orderly manner and on a scale that we can handle in the long term. I hope for open and constructive discussions in the committee that is now being set up, so that next year we can establish a long-term policy that is broadly based in Parliament.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-872	Madam President, I would like I have to say that I am quite taken after the long speech by our Minister for Migration. It is as if there are no problems whatsoever in Sweden. It's like he doesn't see the kids who don't get full grades when they're out of ninth grade. We have several exclusion areas where every other student does not get the grades required to move on, where you do not learn the Swedish language, where mom and dad never go to work, where you live in exclusion and overcrowding. But in Morgan Johansson's Sweden it doesn't look like that. There's gold and green forests. He talks about 2015 as something very distant that never comes back. However, we are currently in the crisis of integration that has been created by an unsustainable reception for many years. If you talked to the Social Democratic councillors, you'd probably get a completely different picture. The municipalities are on their knees. Social services, schools and health care are having a hard time getting along. For this we have a responsibility. It was not so long ago that it sounded very different from the Social Democrats. That was before the election. It was said that there would be a secure migration policy for a new era. It was believed that the new, stricter asylum legislation would remain in place. It was argued that our legislation could not differ substantially from that of other EU countries. The reception would take place in a more orderly form and work would continue to be done to ensure that more countries assume their responsibilities. That's it. Now it's after the election. The Social Democrats ended up in government power, and we see nothing of that policy. I don't think it's just me wondering, where did it go?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-877	Madam President, I would like No, no one denies that there are problems in Sweden. Of course there is, but you have to have some proportions too. What I am pointing out is that unemployment has fallen, that public finances are stronger than in 40 to 50 years, that integration is now faster and that the measures we have taken over these years, such as language teaching and fast-tracking into the labour market and building housing, have actually had an effect. When we took office in 2014, we did indeed have a situation that I would like to say was totally untenable. That is what led to the crisis. What was the policy of the Moderates then – it was during Reinfeldt's time – was that Sweden would have the most generous refugee legislation in the EU. But once asylum seekers arrived, only Social Democratic municipalities would take responsibility. Then the moderate municipalities wouldn't have to. After all, you were totally opposed to all forms of legislation that would also make Vellinge, Danderyd, Lidingö, Täby and the other moderate municipalities take responsibility. But there you had to fold. I pointed out that it was an important point in integration policy that all municipalities shouldered their responsibilities. But here they were distributed to the Social Democratic municipalities. The moderate municipalities were spared; they would not have to do anything. In addition, with the EBO legislation, you made sure that the asylum seekers were pushed into already overcrowded apartments in vulnerable residential areas, and you refused to do anything about this legislation. Now we have gone in with a lot of training efforts and created a law that requires all municipalities to take responsibility. We are also about to do something about EBO legislation, which will further help break segregation. This is what I will be doing, concrete measures to improve integration in Sweden in the future.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-884	Madam President, I would like Either you can stand here and point your finger and tell me who said what before, or you take the responsibility that you are set to take. We can see that it still takes eight years for even half of the new arrivals to have a job. It takes 18 years for even half of those who lack upper secondary school education to have a job, and there are increasing numbers of them. Half of the unemployed are born abroad, and Morgan Johansson is happy here. We have had far too much immigration for far too long. This has led to a major integration crisis, and it is the children who are suffering. It is the children who inherit the alienation from their parents, and we must take responsibility for that. Of course there are good examples, but in large parts of Sweden there is not. We must dare to see this. We must understand that the number that comes here plays a role in our ability to integrate the many who have come here to stay. This was also recognised by the Social Democrats before the elections. Then you spoke of levels of some 14 000 asylum seekers. These were still fairly high levels, but considerably lower than those we have today. What happened to it? Was it just empty words, too?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-888	Madam President, I would like As I said, we have the lowest levels in 13 years. It is an effect of, among other things, the measures that we took in the years after 2015, but then the Moderates were not happy to help. I remember very well when we had the big debate on the ID controls. At first, the Moderates said they would back it up, but then they could not do it because they thought there would be problems with integration around the Sound, which was a perfectly correct assumption. Today, however, we know that if we had not introduced the identification checks, our entire asylum system would have failed. I remember being quite alone in arguing for this. It's a good thing we did what we did, but the Moderates weren't in on it. We took over a situation, Reinfeldtlinjen, where Sweden would take a huge responsibility but where the asylum seekers would be distributed only to certain municipalities and the EBO legislation would remain so that the segregation increased. We've changed all that. There were no medical age assessments. When there were so many in 2015, we even had a system of medical age assessment so that we could find out how old the people who came here were. There was also one thing that had failed during the time of the Moderates. Maria Malmer Stenergard says it still takes eight years. I think she should do her homework. That was the case in the time of the Alliance. Now it takes four to five years for half of them to enter the labour market. This is due to the strong pressure on the labour market. There's a big craving for professionals. We will continue to expand this part so that more people enter the labour market more quickly. It is the key to integration and to become part of Sweden.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-893	Madam President, I would like Sometimes I get extremely tired of these debates, and now it is such an opportunity. I am so tired of looking forward, rather than blaming each other as to who took responsibility when and where. I am also extremely tired of the fact that there are those in this House who want to seize what humanity and humanism are supposed to mean. Morgan Johansson said in his speech that, as a result of the changes in legislation, a limited number will be allowed to come here. We are talking about a few thousand more asylum seekers and a few thousand more family members. You can see the number as limited or as large. I belong to the latter group; others belong to the former group. Overall, in terms of the number of refugees in the world, it is a small, small gutter. Overall, in terms of the number of vulnerable people in the world, it is even smaller. There was a budget debate here before. It was then mentioned how to move resources from aid to reception. I read an old blog post from 2013 where I reflected on this. There was talk of 40 million refugees. I was painted as heartless because I wanted to bet on those who actually needed it. My question to Morgan Johansson is: Should we not invest in changing migration movements altogether and in helping as many people as possible?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-898	Madam President, I would like Paula Bieler is tired of other parties seizing the concept of humanity. However, I can assure Paula Bieler that no one will accuse the Swedish Democrats of representing humanity. Paula Bieler says that we should spend more money on aid on site than on caring for people here at home. That's exactly what we're doing. We are past the period when a lot of money from the aid budget went to take care of those who came to Sweden. Instead, we are now in a position to invest aid in precisely the areas we are talking about. As I said, I have visited refugee camps in both Lebanon and Jordan, and there Swedish flags fly because UNHCR is so proud of the job Swedish aid workers do. Sweden is one of the largest contributors to the UNHCR and to the United Nations' second migration organisation, the IOM. Tomorrow, the government will decide to further strengthen the allocation of funds to the IOM in order to help migrants on the ground even better. It is about protecting them but also, when they are on their way to Libya, explaining the conditions so that they turn around. This is, among other things, what the IOM is doing. Paula Bieler can be completely calm on this point. Sweden does more than most other countries both here at home and on site.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-902	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Migration is wrong when he claims that I can be completely calm. I will not be completely calm as long as we have tens of millions of refugees in the world and in their home countries, as long as we have children who die in measles despite the vaccine available and as long as there are children who are not allowed to go to school and we could invest in it. Although we have got the levels down a little, see how much we spend here at home, it is a fact that we have limited resources. Not least when our tax funds, which Sweden's taxpayers expect primarily to go to them, are to be spent on the citizens of other countries. I think it is justified but that one must focus on cost efficiency, and however one turns and twists on it is not the best way to help the most and most vulnerable to pay for reception in Sweden. In this situation, people are opening up for family immigration without the need for livelihoods, something that will clearly take advantage of funds that could either have made a difference for Swedish municipalities that go on their knees or have gone to more help on the ground. Moreover, this policy leads to a change in migratory flows. As I said in my speech: When Morgan Johansson held a press conference last week and received questions afterwards, he pointed out that families choose whether they stay together or send one in advance depending on the laws we have. It goes without saying that a tight, really tight, migration policy would also reduce the proportion of people at all who risk their lives and turn to smugglers because it is profitable to come here. This while we close our eyes to those who are vulnerable, who die of diseases we can vaccinate away, who do not go to school, who do not get safety. I think it is shameful, and I will never accept that it is what is called human beings.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-907	Madam President, I would like I understand that Paula Bieler does not want these women and children here. But it does not stop there, because the Swedish Democrats do not want the men here either. You don't want anyone here at all. It does not matter to the Swedish democrats whether there is one coming or whether it is ten, a hundred or a thousand coming. You have always been against foreigners coming to Sweden in all respects. Those who come here as immigrants should never be able to feel like Swedes, but they should be seen as something else besides. That is, of course, the whole message in the policy of the Swedish Democrats. You're trying to divide people into different ethnicities. That's what's most important to you. How can Paula Bieler help people on the ground when there is full war on the ground, as it has been in Syria, for example, and is still in many places? You can't do that. Instead, it will be a matter of trying to ensure that the people who come here are given the opportunity for a fresh start. What I pointed out in my post is that for the vast majority of people who come to Sweden it is actually going very well. More than 1 million people wake up every morning, go to work and work for Sweden have their roots in some other country. I am basically very proud of this, and it strengthens Sweden as a nation.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-911	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Morgan Johansson! My question is about family reunification. Today in the gallery we have had a rather large group from the Eritrean diaspora, which has been hit hard by family fragmentation. It has been that in different ways either the three-month rule has not been met or the supply requirements have not been met. When the government presented the temporary law, it received quite a lot of criticism that it should not be allowed to deprive any family reunification. At the time, the government was clear that the temporary law is about family reunification to be retained and not deprived of. Nevertheless, Madam President, during the duration of the temporary law, for example, some unaccompanied minors who have been granted a residence permit have turned 18 so that they no longer have the right to family reunification, and parents' children have turned 18 so that they no longer have that right. It's a family reunion that's gone. Now that the government extends the law further, even more children will be able to turn 18. Even more people will not be able to have this family reunification. I wonder how the Minister of Justice sees a promise made that family reunification should remain temporary and not be deprived of.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-917	Madam President, I would like The whole point when we introduced the new temporary law was that we had to deal with an extremely acute situation, when there was 10,000 a week. We took the view that Sweden could not continue to be the country with the most generous refugee policy in the EU when, as I said, 12% of all asylum seekers who came to Europe came to Sweden and when it came to 163 000 in a year. I can't. In the world of the Left Party, it might. That's where you can just keep going. The Left Party, remembering from these debates, has, of course, been against any austerity throughout this period. If this has been about the temporary law or about ID checks or border controls, you have been against. Even when 10,000 a week came, even then, the Left Party did not understand that now we have to do things. Now we are in a situation where there are fewer than in 13 years. We will then reintroduce this possibility for those who need alternative protection – and of course it covers everyone, regardless of which country they come from. But the criteria must also be met. Among other things, the supply requirement must be met if one is not covered by the three-month rule. Then you just have to make sure that you meet the supply requirement, that you get the job you need to get up to it. This will give you the opportunity to be part of family reunification. We are going to make more family reunifications with the new legislation than we have before, and the fact is that we have done a great many also in recent years. So do not spread the picture that it is completely impossible to make family reunifications or that it will get worse! Actually, it's exactly the opposite.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-922	Madam President, I would like I note that Morgan Johansson would normally rather talk about the Left Party than answer my questions. It's a fine old tradition, so the government can continue with it. There are many things that the Left Party thinks we could have done instead. The government could have put pressure on the EU to take joint responsibility by holding back the membership fee until other Member States did their part of the job. Instead, it put the refugees under pressure. The government could have said that the time when Sweden contributes to the conflicts in the world by selling weapons to dictatorships and countries in war is over. Instead, the government lets the EU pay dictatorships and villains to keep victims of war away from Europe. The government could have launched a major social effort to build Sweden bigger and stronger. Rather, it requires people who want to be reunited with their family to get a large enough apartment. I spoke in my speech, Madam President, about the level of wages required. What is clear is that ordinary fucking people – I apologise, Madam President – with a regular education and a regular job have very hard to do if they have three children. For example, I took a teacher, a mechanic and a waitress. These are common, honest, good jobs that would not be able to meet the supply requirements. What is wrong with ordinary people's right to family reunification?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-929	Madam President, I would like The three-month rule also applies to them. It applies to everyone, so if you pass the three-month rule, you can take advantage of the family reunification rules. After all, it is part of the Left Party's policy that Sweden should be the most generous country in the EU. If an asylum seeker has arrived in Sweden and he or she has been rejected, he or she should preferably not go home. You also have political proposals on this, which are aimed at making it more difficult to return. If you bring together all these proposals – any resistance to all kinds of austerity even if we receive 10 000 a week, any opposition to any legislation that is reasonable in relation to other EU countries and to making it more difficult to send back those who have not been granted a permit – you will see that it leads to a political line that is really about free immigration. That is to say, if you have come to Sweden, it doesn't matter whether you get rejected or not, or if you pass the supply requirement or not – you should still have all rights and be able to remain in Sweden. It's not working. One must always be able to take care of those who have come to Sweden and give them a good start, but one must also conduct a policy that means that we deal with this in the long term. I think that the Left Party should also come into being.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-933	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Migration for his speech. When the directives were presented to the committee last Friday, I was not really attentive because I and the minister's party colleague Rikard Larsson made us ready to cycle Vättern around. Now it went well, so we got to the finish late on Saturday. So on Sunday I had the opportunity to look at what the directives say. I found nothing about looking at social welfare systems and would therefore like to ask the Minister why they are not included in the directives. The following question will be whether the Minister believes that the right to various grants and social benefits has not been relevant to the search pressure that Sweden has experienced. Hopefully we won't have to experience it again, but we may. My question is simply: why were social welfare systems not included in the directives presented by the Minister last Friday?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-937	Madam President, I would like The most important thing for the Migration Policy Committee is to be able to resolve the issues associated with the Temporary Act. These are permanent residence permits versus temporary residence permits and the duration of temporary residence permits. It's about the rules of next of kin immigration. It is about the supply requirement and a number of other issues associated with this. In the directives, we are also opening up to analyse whether further measures may be needed to redirect so that more people come here on a legal basis and so that fewer people come spontaneously to our borders. That's the writing there is. Then, of course, you can analyse it. We will hear the proposals put forward by the parties in the Committee and take note of them. However, if you are going to engage in a discussion about how child benefits, multi-child allowances, housing allowances and all that should look like, it is no longer an asylum policy investigation. Then it will be much wider. As I said, we'll see what we can find out. However, on the part of the Social Democrats, I would like to send a signal. For us, it's important not to make a difference between people and people. If you're here as a new arrival, those are the rules that apply. I believe that the welfare state is helping to keep society together. Social security, such as health insurance, parental insurance and unemployment insurance, are earned benefits. When you talk like Hans Eklind does, I think that you are looking for child benefit, for example, and that you might ultimately want to say that new arrivals, for example, should not receive child benefit or housing allowance on the same terms as others. For us, it is important that the welfare system stays together and that there is no distinction between people and people. That is the line we will take on the committee.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-943	Madam President, I would like I must thank the Minister for his answer. But the question is asked more from an international context. We need to look at our welfare systems and their rights based on what it looks like in other countries. I believe that in Sweden, not least now that the EU does not have a common migration policy, we must be aware that the way in which we design things here in Sweden has an impact on the search pressure. The Minister mentioned in his speech that 20 percent of the labour force today was born abroad. Although the Minister sounded satisfied with that, I do not think he is entirely satisfied. I'm guessing he might want to improve that number further. There is still a distance between native and foreign born when it comes to being part of the labour force. So there is still work to be done here. Social welfare systems can also have an incentive to get into work quickly. Nevertheless, I think that one of the many tools that we can lift up in such a committee is the right of newcomers to welfare systems and perhaps to parts of welfare systems. Whether we have different views as input value, I believe that such an analysis and discussion are important if we are to create a long-term sustainable migration policy.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-946	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats are, of course, free to pursue their questions in all contexts, both here in Parliament and in the committees that are formed. There is no limitation in that sentence. However, in the case of this committee, it is important to bring the legislative changes that need to be in place in two years' time when the temporary law expires on 15 August. That's why all those problems have to be broken this year. I stand by my basic position. I don't think anyone benefits from making new arrivals coming to Sweden as poor as possible the first thing they do. I don't believe in any kind of logic in hungry wolves chasing the best. This type of policy has been tried in many places, not least by the former alliance government, for which the very root of the policy was to cut down on social security systems so that people would get to work faster. My opinion is that it does not work. I believe that we have shown exactly that during this term of office. It is when you go in with concrete measures aimed at those who need to enter the labour market that you can cope with the situation. For example, when you can offer adult education to a person who needs to complete his/her education so that he/she can work as an electrician or painter here, when you can offer that support so that he/she can do the job here, you can also do the job. What we have done in these years that we have managed has led to an increase in employment of 350 000 more jobs. I mean, it's proof that it's our model that works.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-950	Madam President, I would like This is one of the most difficult political issues for me and probably some others. This is the second round that I am politically involved in a major refugee problem. Last time was at the end of the 1990s when I was active as President of the KDU. I entered Parliament 98 - 02 when we had a situation with the collapsing Balkans. Even then it was so bad that Europe could not really stand up. It ended up with American troops stopping some of the absolute worst abuses in Europe after World War II. Even then we had a debate on migration and how to deal with people who were on the run. The big difference from now on is that the debate was very much softer towards individual people. I miss that. Since election 02, I have been a municipal politician for 16 years. As a municipal politician and mainly as a school manager, I have always been surprised by the climate of debate. When it comes to the crisis discussion, many of us did not actually experience it that way. We experienced hardworking people in the administration, business and civil society that enabled us to help people. When I became municipal councillor in Uddevalla in 2007 – it certainly has nothing to do with me – 12% of the population was overseas. When I entered the Riksdag in 2018, 22 per cent of the population of Uddevalla was overseas. But Uddevalla has not actually collapsed. Uddevalla's population has changed. There are new challenges. But we haven't collapsed. Madam President, I would like I am sometimes concerned about the rhetoric and the high tone, for example from Moderates who talk about numbers. The truth is that the difference between the two proposals that we will soon be voting on is about 500 people in 2019, 1,000 people in 2020 and the same number in 2021. With today's temporary legislation, about 45 000 people come here as relatives. That figure is not meant to change, quite the contrary. That's the one you're behind. It gets weird when we raise the debate so much that we almost lose each other. Madam President, I would like In Uddevalla, we've done a lot of stuff. I know that has been done in many other municipalities as well. I could line up examples. But one of the most important was the investment in adult education. It made us get people to work. I'll be honest with you and tell you that I've been wrestling with this question. In fact, I would like to vote as the Left Party. I would like to vote against an extension, because there are other laws which are currently limiting the number. But in the wrestling struggle with my conscience and in conversation with my friends, many immigrant friends, back in Uddevalla, I have nevertheless come to the conclusion that today I will support the compromise that has been drawn up. I will not support it with a happy heart, but because I think that is the best thing we can come up with right now. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you in civil society for what you did in 1998 and 1999, for what you did in 2015 and for making it difficult for my conscience. Thank you for your commitment!
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-960	Madam President, I would like Today we have a position on a legislative proposal on data storage and how to adapt it to EU legislation. The bill presented by the government is an important and priority piece of the government's strong work during the spring to strengthen society's protection and ability to clear up serious crimes such as murder, kidnapping, aggravated robbery, the spread of child pornography and terrorist offences. We think that the proposal is good and balanced in its entirety. These are new rules that will apply as early as 1 October this autumn and replace the old data storage law. The law obliges operators to store certain data and disclose it to law enforcement authorities. The background is the decision of the European Court of Justice in December 2016 which concluded that the data storage of traffic data by telecommunications operators at the time was not compatible with EU law. You can have many opinions about the decision and about data storage itself, which people have also had: too little, too much, too short or too far. The result, however, was that our law enforcement authorities and our law enforcement work deteriorated significantly. With today's proposal, we are once again putting an important tool in the hands of law enforcement authorities, access to electronic communications. However, we do so in the form and scope required by EU law and with a reasonable balance between needs and integrity. The drafting of the legislative proposal we are about to adopt today again gives the police and security police the opportunity for important information. At the same time, it is so balanced that the legislation is able to pass a judicial review. Of course, we, the legislators of the Swedish Parliament, can decide on tougher laws, but what difference does it make if, after an appeal, the European Court of Justice again believes that it is contrary to EU law? We risk standing in the dark again and losing important tools that this legislation will provide. Then the symbol is more important than reality. Madam President, I would like The report contains a reservation from us, No 5, which I support. This is a more extensive storage obligation and is based on the image that there might be a greater space and space for storage in the field of national security. I can only conclude that the investigation was clear. Whether it is law enforcement by open police or law enforcement by the Security Service, the data storage issue is subject to the same EU legal framework. It is EU law that sets the framework for national data storage legislation for law enforcement purposes, and as regards national security, there is still no decision by the European Court of Justice. I share the government's clear view that EU law should not apply to data storage related to national security. And if EU law is considered to be applicable, there should be room for more extensive storage in the field of national security. Today there are already three cases in the Court of Justice of the European Union, and against that background, I therefore believe that there is no reason to introduce a specific regulation for data storage related to national security before the rulings of the European Court of Justice. The Government's proposal also makes it clear that, on the basis of both the discussion of these EU objectives and the development of technology, there are grounds for a review of the regulatory framework within four years at the latest. We therefore believe that an announcement on the matter is not necessary. The second part I would like to touch on concerns reservations n 7 from the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. It doesn't do anything but knock down an already open door. It is a good example of how to use the instrument of announcement in parliament in a bad way. We have all been able to read in the media that at the beginning of May, as soon as the bill had been presented, the Minister for the Interior invited all actors to a meeting to discuss the format for the transmission of stored data. It was decided that the police, all major operators and the operators' trade associations should set up a working group to agree on, among other things, the standard of disclosure, but also how quickly the actors should act and with what price picture it takes. In parallel, the Government is also setting up an investigation to deal with possible consequential changes in legislation. In other words, there is no reason at this stage for Parliament to make this known to the government. The issue is already under discussion. Madam President, I would like This is a product where our starting point has been to prioritise what is most important for law enforcement, but also where we are forced to strike a balance between different interests. The most important thing now is to get the new law in place, so that the unclear situation that prevails can be relegated to history. We need data storage. We need the same rules for all operators, and our legislation needs to be in accordance with EU law. We know that digital tracks are often the most important and sometimes the only tracks that police and security police have to go on in the work of preventing or investigating serious crime. In the fight against terrorism, serious organised crime, child pornography offences and criminal gangs, this is an important piece of legislation. I am pleased that today there is also a broad consensus on this in Swedish politics.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-973	Madam President, I would like The debate concerns the issue of data storage. It is something that has been discussed and debated in Parliament for several years. The background is, as we could hear here earlier, a well-known judgment in the European Court of Justice and the fact that in recent years we have been able to see how mobile communications are used to a very large extent in criminal contexts – although it is also a great opportunity for all law-abiding citizens, which is to be recorded in the Minutes. This is nothing new, but we have unfortunately been reminded in recent years of how very serious crime can happen to us without warning. I am, of course, thinking, for example, of terrorism, which on several occasions has affected Sweden but also many other countries in our vicinity and which, unfortunately, continues to pose a major threat to everyone's safety and security. Data storage is of the greatest value for the ability to detect, prevent, combat, investigate and prosecute crimes in Sweden. It is even the case that this can be absolutely crucial for preventing and deterring terrorist attacks. The Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Customs Agency have all stressed the importance of data storage in their referrals to the investigation on which the current legislative proposals are essentially based. It was almost two and a half years ago, in December 2016, that the European Court of Justice ruled in a judgment that Swedish legislation on data storage was not compatible with EU law. The judgment quickly had a negative impact on the ability of law enforcement authorities to access data storage from telecommunications operators. It has even been described by the government as the fact that police and security police have lived in darkness, which is of course very serious when it comes to matters as central as national security. But it is not just a question of terrorist threats, Madam President. According to the Swedish Security Service, data storage, and all data covered by the requirement for storage in Sweden, is also strictly necessary for the more regular law enforcement. For example, Save the Children and Ecpat points out in their remis sans the importance of data storage in order to investigate sexual crimes against children. Several things can be said about the proposal that is now before Parliament. It is impossible not to dwell on the time aspect. It was two and a half years ago that the European Court of Justice delivered its judgment. Only now has the government put forward a proposal that will enter into force in October of this year. Of course, it is not good that it takes almost three years from the judgment of the European Court of Justice until new legislation is in place. This is the responsibility of the government, especially when we consider that this is not an isolated matter; most of the measures aimed at combating terrorism have unfortunately been delayed. One current issue concerns participation in terrorist organisations, for example. A proposal on this was announced two years ago. Nevertheless, there is still not even a proposal on the ground to take a position, but it will take several more years. Unfortunately, there are several other examples of delays in this area. Having said that, it is important that we have new legislation in place that is compatible with EU law and that telecommunications operators have to comply with. Therefore, the Moderates are now voting in favour of current legislative proposals, which represent a step in the right direction. However, we have several serious objections to these proposals. It is a major shortcoming that the government does not propose a more far-reaching possibility of data storage related to national security, that is, with regard to the activities of the Security Service. It is explicitly opened up in the 2016 judgment to more permissive national rules in this area. In particular, it is clear from the present draft law, which quotes parts of the judgment. Such regulation is therefore not in conflict with EU law. Nevertheless, the government has chosen not to present a specific regulation related to national security. We Moderates believe that this is a misjudgement that risks having serious consequences. The fact that the legal situation is not fully understood is not an obstacle to getting Swedish legislation in place. To refer, as the government does, to an ongoing case in the EU Court of Justice is to take a very defensive stance when it comes to Sweden's ability to prevent and avert terrorism. In this context, it should be pointed out that both the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Radio Agency indicate in their referrals that they believe that a more extensive storage obligation than the investigation has proposed would be compatible with EU law, particularly in the field of national security. Against this background, the government should return to the Riksdag as soon as possible with legislative proposals that provide more far-reaching data storage opportunities related to national security, i.e. in the area of the Security Service. It is of great importance to protect Sweden's security and prevent terrorism. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, our view is that the proposed legislation is generally too narrow, given the importance of data storage for detecting, preventing, combating, investigating and prosecuting crimes. The time limits proposed by the Government are limited, with only two months' storage time for location data. It should be mentioned that the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office and the Finnish Customs have specifically pointed out that any shortening of the storage time means a corresponding deterioration in law enforcement. In addition, fixed telephony is excluded from data storage. The Police Authority, the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Ecocrime Agency all consider that the removal of storage of fixed telephony will lead to negative consequences. The question of the extent of data storage should be re-examined with the aim of expanding data storage. We Moderates believe that the regulatory framework should be as far-reaching as EU law allows. When the government is unable to deliver this, it is to be welcomed if the parliament instead emerges. There is an announcement on the part of the committee. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 6.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-987	Madam President, I would like The head of the UK Security Service, MI5, has stated that the country is facing a multidimensional threat that is rapidly evolving on a scale and pace that has never been seen before. This statement is equally topical for Sweden. Reducing the obligation to store traffic and location data can have very serious consequences, as it will significantly impair the ability of authorities to prevent, prevent and investigate crime. The State has an obligation to protect the security of individual citizens and to ensure that crimes are prevented and investigated and that offenders are brought to justice. Deteriorating the possibility of using electronic investigation will make certain crimes impossible to clear up and allow victims to become unprotected. In practice, some crimes could be punished, and many victims would never get the redress they are entitled to. This, in turn, would undermine the legitimacy of the entire judiciary. It is important to point out that traffic and location data are crucial for both intelligence and investigation work. Electronic data are widely used in any investigation of serious crime. The government's proposal that call location data should be stored for only two months will lead to serious problems for law enforcement authorities. Moreover, a differentiated storage period, where certain data are stored very short time, would make it impossible to reconstruct a communication chain. Law enforcement authorities have a great need to obtain location data. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats advocate a retention period for location data of at least six months. The same authorities have indicated that there is a serious problem with storage obligations only for telephone service data and message management via mobile connection points. IP-telephony and fixed telephony also need to be included in order to provide adequate investigation facilities for law enforcement. It seems that the proposals have been differentiated for the sake of the matter, rather than taking full account of the consequences of the proposed regulation. There seems to be a fear of being rejected by the European Court of Justice, which has been the governing component of the decision-making process. This is an approach against which we Swedish democrats are demonstrating opposition. It must be the need that governs, not short-term tactical considerations. The study on data storage and EU law states that the majority of the collection that takes place is from mobile phone traffic. However, if the storage obligation does not include fixed telephony and IP telephony, it will lead to difficult boundaries between what is a fixed and a mobile network connection. It is worth noting that IP telephony can be used from both fixed and mobile phones. This will lead to a shift in the use of criminals and a shift in their electronic communications so as to avoid falling within the reach of public authorities. In the long term, the proposed electronic monitoring is also in danger of being resounded by technological developments. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats believe that it is of great importance that regulation of electronic monitoring becomes technology neutral. It is natural that a balance must be struck between society's interest in prosecuting crime and the individual's right not to be unduly monitored. However, this does not prevent a more far-reaching solution. Nor does EU law and the Tele 2 judgment prevent a more far-reaching solution. One of the stated reasons for having differentiated regulation of electronic monitoring is that the privacy of the individual should be met. However, the Swedish Democrats believe that the time aspect should be determined according to the needs of law enforcement authorities. On the other hand, there should be a review of the copyright law with a view to ensuring the personal integrity of the individual. Finding the right balance in such matters is not easy, in no way. But a good start is to adopt a perspective that puts the State's task of protecting its citizens first. In this respect, the proposal that is on the table today is lacking. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1000	Madam President, I would like When you listen to Katja Nyberg, you can get the picture that the legislative proposal we have to take a position on today would worsen the current situation and that it is a deterioration of the legislation. It's not reality. We all know after the 2016 verdict that this possibility no longer exists for our law enforcement authorities. The importance of moving forward with legislation is, as the Minister for the Interior has pointed out, to rekindle the light for the authorities and give them the opportunity to access the information. Nor is it as Mr Nyberg says that it is governed by any fear of being rejected by the European Court of Justice. It has very clearly been about starting from the needs we have in the field of law enforcement but also finding the balance linked to privacy. It is not the case that EU judgment prohibits storage. But it is very clear that the team we had needed to change. I have a question for Katja Nyberg. She is standing in this Chamber and talks about the need for a balance between privacy and law enforcement. What do you see in the investigation preceding the bill that much more could be done than what the government is proposing here today?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1005	Madam President, I would like There's been a deterioration. I understand that you mean that there has been an improvement with how it has been before, Fredrik Lundh Sammeli. But now it is only for two months that location data can be obtained. It's a deterioration. It's not what it was before. That was six months. That is why I believe it has become a deterioration. In any case, it should be at least six months as it was before. The honourable Member also mentioned personal integrity. As things stand, it seems to take quite a lot of account of it. Of course you should. But not when it comes to this kind of crime. This must take place before it can be investigated and that the Police Authority and the Security Service have the opportunity to be able to access the information that is really needed to carry out a good investigation. On the other hand, there are other options that you can look at so that personal privacy is not violated in different ways. I know that it has been used in other ways where one can question whether it is really necessary. However, in the case of this type of crime, it is essential that law enforcement authorities have all the means to investigate crime.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1008	Madam President, I would like We still need to agree on what map we have to navigate from. The basis is that the legislation we had in the past was strongly rejected by the European Court of Justice. It was not compatible with EU law. The data storage that took place in Sweden was too extensive and too unclear. Based on this, the work has been about finding a new law that meets the needs of law enforcement authorities, while at the same time striking a clear balance to what was, nevertheless, the fundamental failure that is making us stand where we stand today. As I said in my speech, this House has every opportunity to adopt an even tougher law if that is what we want. This applies not only to national security but also to a broader context. But what difference does it make if it leads to an appeal and is annulled again after an EU judgment? Then we are back to a darkness that means that our authorities do not have that opportunity. I think that the government in this product clearly points out that technology development is moving. Crime will always try to exploit opportunities. Society must be on its toes and lie even with or preferably ahead. It is also a reality that we have to relate to. It is important not only to give the impression that it is possible to do something much more comprehensive and that we are still able to ensure privacy. This is a work based on an investigation into the balance and the possibility of getting a law that works in reality.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1014	Madam President, I would like The EU directive, which came in, was more of a recommendation. It is not that we have to pursue it exactly. It's a fear, isn't it? That is exactly what the honourable Member here says. It has been done out of fear that it will fail again. It is still possible to differentiate. You can look at it in different ways. You don't have to take everything in the same cake. Differentiation is possible. At the same time, one can look at, for example, copyright law when it comes to personal privacy. There is also a great opportunity to review it. There are opportunities to do so. Nevertheless, it is a deterioration that it is now only two months instead of six months that it was earlier to look at location points. You can't get away from it.
i-Dy1vaeYD1DXJMhb4jC4hBN	Madam President, I would like The Center Party is in favour of our reservation No 4. Sweden faces major problems in the area of justice, problems that require both resources and more tools. Data storage is a good and important tool for bringing serious criminals to justice. But that does not make the question simple. It is an extremely difficult issue that requires difficult balances. The use of this type of tool must be limited to serious crimes and must also be followed by clear and legally secure control bodies. People's personal integrity is important and must always be protected, but people who commit serious crimes should not be protected in the name of privacy. Legislation that is liable to affect privacy must be transparent with reliable control bodies, clear rules of use and safeguards against abuse and purpose sliding. The Center Party shares the government's view that data storage is needed, but we believe that the government's proposal suffers from deficiencies linked to personal integrity. In the so-called Tele 2 judgment, the Court of Justice of the European Union stated that the Data Storage Directive constituted a far-reaching and particularly serious infringement of the right to respect for privacy and the protection of personal data. According to the Court, the detention was not limited to what was strictly necessary or proportionate. The Court found, inter alia, that the interest in combating serious crime cannot in itself justify legislation which provides for a general and undifferentiated storage of all traffic and location data. The Court held that precise requirements must be laid down for access to the data, that access must be given only to combat serious crime and that access must, in principle, relate only to persons involved in serious crime. In addition, the Court of Justice of the European Union stated that, as a general rule, access may be granted only after prior verification by a court or other independent authority and that interested parties shall be informed as soon as it no longer harms the Authority's investigations. In large part, the government has landed well with the bill, but there are also very clear shortcomings. The Government proposes that prosecutors at the Prosecutor's Office decide on a permit for the collection of electronic communications data in the intelligence activities of law enforcement authorities under the Recovery Act. Several consultation bodies point to the fact that the solution would be contrary to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the part that an independent authority should decide to collect. Since it is questionable whether prosecutors comply with the independence requirements of EU law, the Center Party, as well as a number of consultation bodies, considers that the decision-making under the Recovery Act should be moved to an independent authority and that the most appropriate solution would be a special committee. The Center Party sees it as fundamental that legislation that can have a significant impact on people's personal integrity has clear barriers to abuse and purpose-slipping. It is of the utmost importance that our personal integrity is protected by limiting the storage time. The Government proposes that the Government or the authority that the Government decides should be able to make detailed provisions regarding the storage period. This is opposed by the Center Party, as it offers the possibility of greatly extended storage times. The Center Party wants, in line with what the investigation proposes, instead to state in law that the data subject to the storage obligation should be stored for the period prescribed by the Government, but for a maximum period of 10 months from the date on which the communication was completed. Such a regime would limit a future government's desire to extend the storage period and protect personal integrity. The field of electronic communications is constantly changing, with new communications services added at the same time as other services disappear or are less used. These new services lead to new communication patterns among users, which in turn leads to the assessment of what is strictly necessary to store can and will change over time. The Government considers that the regulatory framework should be evaluated no later than four years from the entry into force of the proposed changes. The Center Party believes that this time is too long and that an evaluation should be carried out already after two years. Finally, Madam President, data storage is an extremely important tool for tackling serious crime, but it must be combined with and constantly weighed against personal privacy.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1041	Madam President, I would like Personal integrity has always been a very important issue for the Left Party. It is basically about freedom – the freedom that no one should be able to control your life and the freedom not to be watched, either by an individual or by a state. Part of this freedom is the struggle and dream of a free internet. The Internet is a great tool and part of our lives. Our digital life is so embedded in our IRL life that it's hard to know where one begins and the other ends. We know what positive effects the internet has on our lives, but we know the less about the negative ones. How the internet is used to silence democratic movements around the world, how the internet is suddenly shut down during demonstrations and major attacks, how people are bugged because they are peace activists against a totalitarian regime and that states buy in mass surveillance systems that Swedish companies are involved in developing – this is less talked about. We know that a large part of crime has moved to the digital world. Everything from money laundering to sex crimes happens online. It is therefore important when we legislate that it is done in such a way that law enforcement authorities do not find it unnecessarily difficult to carry out their mission. But neither should we legislate according to the principle of you-nothing-to-hide, which I think more and more parties are leaning on. It is a naive and unintelligent way of arguing. It is reasonable that communities can use coercive measures to investigate and prosecute crimes. It is a matter of interception, reconnaissance and what we are debating here today, namely data storage. However, this must be done in accordance with rights and freedoms and as necessary, efficiency and proportionality. Looking back, we can see that the Left Party has been against the storage of traffic data. The Data Storage Directive, which was voted through in Parliament in 2010, despite major public protests, stopped the Left Party together with the Green Party for a period of time. The EU Court of Justice found that Swedish legislation was too far-reaching. The Tele 2 judgment came, and we stand here today with an attempt to adapt European law. It is a difficult and complex issue with a story that I think it is important that we take into account. With regard to integrity, freedom and Sweden's sometimes ugly history of mass surveillance of innocent people, the Left Party is still sceptical about data storage. We are calling for a rejection of the proposal because the proposal is not sufficiently specific. But we are faced with a real problem, and we need to be realistic. Data storage is needed to investigate and stop crime. The biggest and most emotional argument is that sexual crimes against children must be stopped. I know that, despite sometimes harsh words in this House, we in all parties are in complete agreement. There the police must have good tools, including good technical tools. There is today good competence in the police, and a fantastic job is being done, but more can be done. Then the legislation must be amended. The Left Party therefore considers that the proposal on targeted data retention, which has not been investigated in the bill, should be examined. In our opinion, targeted storage in respect of a particular group of persons, a particular geographical area or persons using specific technical solutions would lead to better compliance with the requirement of proportionality, efficiency and protection of personal privacy. In this way, we can have a guarantee that the proposal does not conflict with EU law. There are challenges also with targeted storage. We are well aware of that. But it is not just data storage that solves the problems of crime. It is an issue of international crime, where cooperation and cooperation are needed in exactly the same way as in other criminal cases. What is needed is the sound work of the police and, above all, preventive and informative work such as the work carried out by ECPAT. That's the way forward. With this, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservations 1 and 5.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1051	Madam President, I would like What we are debating today is absolutely crucial for our law enforcement authorities. Without access to data from data storage, our police will in many cases be blind and deaf. As early as 2017, the top managers of the police, the Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Financial Crime Authority, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office highlighted the need for functional legislation. For them, functional data storage is crucial for preventing and investigating crimes. And they express the hope that you can quickly discuss and find constructive solutions. They conclude by saying that effective law enforcement and a safe Sweden are not in contradiction to a legally secure regime with a high level of privacy protection. For the Christian Democrats, it is essential that the police receive the necessary resources and tools. The Committee on Justice has also stated several times in the past that secret coercive measures, including the collection of stored data on electronic communications, play a very important role in the work of law enforcement authorities and are of real benefit. The Court of Justice's statements in the so-called Tele 2 judgment have led to many telecom operators not storing data to the same extent as in the past, with significant consequences for the authorities' ability to prevent, investigate and prosecute crimes. It is therefore important to have legislation on on-the-spot data storage. The Government's proposal is a step in the right direction. But there are shortcomings. Firstly, it is a clear shortcoming that the Government does not propose a more far-reaching obligation to store data related to national security, that is to say, what concerns the activities of the Security Service. The Tele 2 ruling opens the door to more permitting national rules in this area. Not proposing specific rules for the storage of data related to national security is an error assessment that risks having serious consequences. According to the committee, the fact that the legal situation is not fully understood is not an obstacle to getting Swedish legislation in place. To refer, as the government, to ongoing cases in the EU Court of Justice is to take an overly defensive stance, given that it is about Sweden's ability to prevent and deter terrorism. It should be pointed out that the Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Radio Agency have also stated in their referrals that they believe that a more extensive storage obligation than the investigation on data storage has proposed is compatible with EU law, especially in the field of national security. Furthermore, the proposed legislation is too narrow in view of the importance of data storage for detecting, preventing, combating, investigating and prosecuting crimes. For example, the storage times proposed by the government are too short. The Swedish Prosecution Authority and the Finnish Customs have pointed out in particular that any shortening of the storage time means a corresponding deterioration in law enforcement. In addition, fixed telephony is exempted from the data storage obligation, which also risks leading to negative consequences. In view of these serious shortcomings, the issue of the scope of the data storage obligation needs to be re-examined with the aim of expanding data storage. The Swedish regulatory framework should be as far-reaching as EU law allows. I am therefore pleased that a majority in the Committee on Justice would like to announce to the Government the urgent return of a proposal which involves, on the one hand, a wider obligation to store data relating to national security and, on the other hand, a wider storage obligation in general. I hope that this proposal will also receive a majority in the vote of Parliament. Madam President, I would like I would also like to ask for the approval of reservation 6. A practical problem with data storage is that the telecommunications operator transmits the requested data to law enforcement authorities in different ways. In some cases, the data is transmitted so that law enforcement authorities may use an excessive amount of time to process the data. It is reasonable for the data to be delivered in a uniform manner that provides a simple management for law enforcement authorities. The government should therefore ensure the introduction of a specific format for the transmission of data stored by the telecommunications operator to the law enforcement authorities. It must be made easier, and it must be able to go faster. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the President, officials and members of the Committee on Justice and the House a really nice summer. We have an interesting and rich year behind us. Now, let us take the opportunity to wander out into the rich robe of friendly greenery that surrounds us right now, enjoy it and draw strength for the new year beginning in the fall.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1064	Madam President, I would like It is essential in a democratic society to maintain a clear gulf between the military and the police. The Left Party has for a long time been critical of the drafting of the FRA law. I do not need to remind a Social Democratic government of Ådalen in 1931, where five people were shot dead by military officers under police command. There are many reasons why the military and police should not share tasks. Military personnel are responsible for national security outside the borders of the country and police security inside the borders. Let us keep that definition clear. Following the terrorist attack of 11 September 2001, the police have the opportunity to use military assistance under police command. Even in this decision, the Left Party was critical. It is not, Madam President, because I am overly interested in history that I look back so much, but because in our time we must see the legislation in a wider context. That is also why I am calling for the government proposal to be rejected. When we as legislators change the law, there must be a holistic approach. This amendment to the law, which will give the police access to intelligence from the Swedish Defence Radio Institute (FRA), is part of the terrorist agreement that almost all parties in Parliament are part of. The Left Party has consistently been critical of the legislation that has come out of this agreement: from the law on travel and financing of terrorist organisations, which has been difficult to use in court and which has resulted in relatively few convictions, to the proposal for participation in and association with terrorist organisations, which the Law Council in a poetically legal way sawed along with the ankles. There will be suggestions for data reading – hujedameja! The proposal that is now before Parliament is about changing how military intelligence can be shared between the FRA and the police. The law has so far worked so that if the FRA knew that a person has a motive to harm Sweden and the police were the same person on the trail and suspected the person for crime could not FRA and the police share this information with each other. The proposal that we are now debating is a change, namely that Säpo and the National Operations Department, the NOA of the police, should be able to take note of information from the FRA even if there is a preliminary investigation. However, the data must not be used to investigate criminal offences but to stop any possible crime. Instead, what the Left Party would like to see is that Säpo and the NOA should be able to determine the direction of signal reconnaissance and receive intelligence with information collected even if there is a preliminary investigation – provided that the intelligence received is limited to the most serious crimes, such as serious terrorist offences, serious sabotage and so on. The Left Party therefore proposes further delimitation of the cases in which intelligence from signal reconnaissance may also be communicated during the pre-trial investigation. With this delimitation, we believe that proportionality is maintained and the risk in various forms of military interception is significantly limited. Madam President, I would like This is a difficult question. It is technical, and it is about security issues at a very high level. Nevertheless, the Left Party believes that there is a reasonable basis for the police to have access to data available to the FRA, but that there is a need for a delimitation to apply only to the most serious crimes. So we believe that the balance between external and internal security and between our external authorities and our internal authorities will have the brunt that we are calling for. This is a big change, a change that is longed for by Säpo but that challenges personal integrity. That is why I propose that the proposal be rejected and that reservation 1 be approved.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1075	Madam President, I would like First of all, of course, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions. Police, security and armed forces possess different kinds of capabilities needed to guard national security, counter threats and combat serious crime. You have skills and abilities that need to be treated with tremendous vigilance and caution. This is, for example, about the monopoly of violence. But it is also about, as in this case, signalling and various types of intelligence that actually need to be taken into account from a privacy perspective. Linda Westerlund Snecker describes these difficult balances in her speech. I believe that all of us in this Chamber feel that we sometimes need to take a holistic approach, take two steps back and see what the overall overall decisions for a long time have meant for the privacy aspects that are so important in a legal society. In this case, the government has produced a bill – under great agony, you might say. It's difficult legal matter. In the agreement between the parties, we perceived that we needed to sharpen our instruments against the new threats that exist in our society and in our world. Swedish signal reconnaissance is absolutely world class. We all know that. It has served us well since the days of the Cold War. The threats may not be primarily the same now as they were then in the 50s and 60s with people pressing buttons. The threats that are most often directed at our society's basic foundations are found in other ways and can be traced with digital media and digital prints in a different way than before. At the same time, we have become blind in other parts because of different types of restrictions in intelligence information, not least on behalf of the police. There is a solid balance to be struck in the legislation. We in the majority of committees feel that we have tried to strike this balance. It is a matter of supervision and where the limit is to be drawn. But if we are to sharpen the instruments and not content ourselves with how it was in the past, we need to take a step forward, and we have done so with the bill. This means that there is no need to interrupt the signal search in connection with the initiation of a preliminary investigation, as there may still be an ongoing threat. But there are legal certainty aspects, and we are well aware of that. If there is something we need to monitor in the future, it is of course what the outcome is in judgments, conventions and international trials that can be done on such cases. These are extremely complex issues, and we will not see how this will happen until we have had a number of tested cases. Sometimes one can say that the fruits of this kind of work, intelligence information, may not really come to the public's attention. This sometimes means that we do not feel grateful for the functions that are only in the hidden. The kind of work that will be done with the new law will certainly prevent terrorist activities and prevent serious organised crime in various ways, not to the extent that it goes to conviction but for what is Säpo's main job, namely to prevent, for preventive purposes, activities that can harm the country. The balance is not least historically linked. It is complicated with a defence force and a military resource that intervenes in the justice of civil society. But I think that we have also seen in recent years that our society is too small and the challenges too great for the boundaries to be so definitive. In the context of forest fires and the fight against oil, we can see that it is quite natural for the military to be able to cooperate with civil society in certain contexts. As far as these tasks are concerned, cooperation is already taking place to some extent. I am in favour of the committee's proposal in the report, and I hope that the law will eventually be good.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1086	Madam President, I would like We have today to debate the Justice Committee's report 29 on arms issues. I would like to begin by pointing out that we are in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning, I am only in favour of reservation 23 on the introduction of weapons to Sweden. Madam President, I would like The report can in principle be divided into two parts, one dealing with illegal weapons and one on legal weapons. One thing should be borne in mind, however. The purpose of weapons, whether illegal or legal, is the same. For let us be honest; a firearm's purpose is to kill as effectively as possible. That is what distinguishes weapons from other products. Because even if the user of the product does not have the purpose of killing, the product is designed and designed for that particular purpose. And that's why we have such rigid rules about weapons. So it is not a question of having rigid laws to make life difficult for hunters or sportsmen. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that there is a relatively high degree of consensus in the Swedish Parliament regarding the work against illegal weapons. Already in 2010, we pushed Social Democrats to reduce the number of illegal weapons. At that time we, among other things together with the Skåne police, pushed for the minimum penalty for serious gun crimes to be raised. The argument was to provide the police with better tools to combat this crime through, for example, telephone tapping. At the same time, we pushed for special criminal liability for those who illegally store firearms for others. It is therefore good, and necessary, with the tightening up that has been done, both in 2014 and 2017, not least the tightening of the penalty for illegal possession of arms to two years. That means, in practice, if you go out on the street with an illegal weapon, you won't be home for at least two years. As I said, this was good – but not enough. Therefore, on 20 April 2018, the Government extended the mandate to investigate certain issues in the field of arms law with an additional number of issues related, inter alia, to the use and possession of illegal weapons and explosives. According to the additional assignment, the investigator will analyse, among other things, whether there is reason to increase the maximum penalty for particularly serious weapons offences and particularly serious violations of the authorisation requirement for explosives and, if so, how much. The investigator shall also analyse whether there are grounds for changing the qualification grounds, i.e. the circumstances to be taken into account when assessing whether a criminal offence is serious or particularly serious in the Arms Act and, if so, in what way. The starting point of the investigation shall be that more acts shall be assessed as gross and particularly gross. The assignment refers, among other things, to earlier announcements by the Riksdag. The assignment must be presented by 28 June 2019. According to the additional mission, the investigator shall, inter alia, review the scale of penalties for smuggling and serious smuggling of arms and explosives. In this context, the investigator shall consider whether a separate regulation on the smuggling of arms and explosives should be introduced and, in this context, consider a particularly serious criminal offence. In other words, we want to tighten the penalties both for serious weapons offences and for arms smuggling. But it should also be said, against this background, that we actually have an investigation that is going to present proposals for what we are talking about today, and then it can really be questioned if there is now reason for the Riksdag to make further announcements. Madam President, I would like There is a greater disagreement in this House as to how we should regulate the legal weapons. I am buying the premise that serious organised crime does not mainly use legal weapons. I also buy the premise that terrorists do not mainly use legal weapons. But I'm worried we can meet another Peter Mangs. He wasn't convicted of terrorist crimes, but he terrorized an entire city. I am afraid that something similar to what happened in the Czech Republic in 2015, when nine people were shot dead in a restaurant, will also happen in Sweden. In fact, I'm afraid that when what happened in Trollhättan possibly happens again, the perpetrator has a gun. So it is the lone wolf rather than organised crime that frightens me when we talk about legal weapons. It is not the law - abiding hunter or sportsman but the lone wolf that can be so difficult to detect in time. A majority in the committee now proposes simplifying the rules on the possession of fully automatic and single-handed weapons and that consideration should be given to abolishing the requirement for renewal every five years. We do not think so. Today, only fully automatic and one-handed multi-ply weapons are subject to the requirement to renew the authorisation every five years. This provision aims at continuous monitoring of compliance with the conditions for the authorisation with regard to the possession of particularly theft-seeking and particularly dangerous weapons. It is therefore not only the care of the holder but also his need for the weapon that is regularly being tested. We believe that the current regulation is balanced and therefore do not think that Parliament should make such an announcement about removing or reforming the five-year licensing system as the majority of the committee requests. Madam President, I would like The majority of the committee also wants the government to initiate a review of the rules on European firearms passports and the rules on admission permits. The aim is to make it easier for hunters and sportsmen to carry weapons across borders when travelling within the EU. The EU Arms Directive requires a European Firearms Passport to be issued on request by the authority of a Member State to a person who legally acquires and uses firearms. A firearms passport does not in itself give rise to the right to carry a weapon between Member States but serves as proof that the person indicated in the passport has the right to hold the weapon in his or her home country. In addition to the provisions on firearms passports, there is a possibility for Member States to require a national entry permit. In the implementation of the Arms Directive in 1996, Sweden chose to maintain the requirement for an entry permit, inter alia in view of the fact that there are Member States that do not achieve the same high level of protection in their legislation as Sweden, for example as regards control and authorisation requirements for possession of firearms. However, it must be said that the requirement for special admission permits does not apply to imports from Denmark, Norway or Finland. Then it won't be necessary to hunt or compete. Nothing has really changed in substance in order for us to change our minds on the matter. But it will be interesting to hear what has happened among EU countries that make M, KD, C, L and SD have this view. Have the requirements been tightened up in the Czech Republic, Bulgaria or Romania? When we talk about rules for entry into Sweden, we can look at other things that can be harmful and which rules surround it, such as the introduction of animals. Then we can see that Sweden has relatively tough rules to bring in, for example, a chihuahua in Sweden. It must have an EU pet passport, it must have valid anti-rabies vaccination and it must be ID marked. Now we will thus facilitate the introduction of for example AK 5s. Is a European firearms passport enough? In that case, it will in principle be easier to bring in an AK 5th than to bring a chihuahua into Sweden. We do not think that is reasonable.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1102	Madam President, I would like The Red-Green Government continues to ignore parliamentary decisions and announcements. It's serious. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Justice Committee's report 29 on arms issues. I will begin by stating that the government has so far ignored the implementation of what the Committee on Justice has previously proposed and the Parliament has taken decisions in the area of hunting and weapons. On 26 March 2015, the Parliament announced to the Government the establishment of a new game management agency for hunting and game conservation. The government has still not done anything to resolve this. It is now over four years ago, and the work has not even begun. In March 2015, the government was also tasked with reviewing the handling of the long processing times on weapons licenses and facilitating the country's hunters and sportsmen. That too was over four years ago. No one can blame this paralysed government for working too quickly and efficiently. The fact that it does not implement what Parliament has requested is both serious and totally unacceptable. Madam President, I would like This time, a majority in the committee has once again issued seven announcements to the government which it must now rectify and implement. However, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left do not think that this needs to be done and oppose the majority's proposal for a decision. It is clear from this report that the government clearly does not want to make it easier for its hunters and sportsmen. The only time the Social Democrats, the Left and the Green Party claim to take hold of facilitating for hunters and sportsmen is in the election movement. Then you promise high and low, wide and wide that there will be an improvement. But after the elections, the Social Democrats, the Left and the Green Party continue as before. This government does not work to make it easier for the country's hunters and sportsmen, but actually does exactly the opposite. Let me give you an example. The Prime Minister recently said that we need to have better control of the possession of weapons and that the increased control would not be harmful to either hunters or sportsmen. But no, Prime Minister, we don't need to keep a better eye on legal weapons. We are already fully aware of these today. On the other hand, the Prime Minister and the Government should put their full energy and energy into improving the control of illegal weapons and stopping their arrival across our borders. Once again, the Prime Minister and the government are exposing their ignorance on hunting and weapons issues. Legal hunting and shooting weapons are mixed up with the illegal weapons of the major criminals. Another example is that the government is now trying to over-implement the arms directive in Sweden. It is simply intended to go further than the EU requires. And it has been thought of taking the opportunity to blame this over-implementment on the European Union. But it has now begun to understand that Parliament will not allow an over-implementing of the arms directive. Madam President, I would like My call to the government for the implementation of the Weapons Directive is: Redo! Do the right thing! And stop chasing Sweden's law-abiding hunters and sportsmen! Madam President, I would like We have over 600 000 gun owners in Sweden. It's hunters, sportsmen and collectors. We have no problem with their legal weapons. The problem is all the illegal weapons that come in across our borders and that the government is not doing enough to stop them. Instead, efforts are being made to make it even more difficult for law - abiding hunters and sportsmen. Grab the illegal weapons instead of hunting the country's hunters and shooters! The Committee on Justice has now agreed on seven announcements. First of all, we are dealing with more stringent penalties for gun crimes. The government has begun this work. But it's taking way too long. We want to increase the penalty for extremely serious gun crimes. But the government's work is slow, and the government feels both tired and paralysed when it comes to tackling serious crime in Sweden. Anyone who commits crimes with illegal weapons will, of course, receive a very severe punishment. It's time the government started working and delivering. We also propose stricter penalties for the smuggling of weapons. About this, the government received an announcement as early as 2017. But nothing has happened. It is said that it is prepared in the Government Office. But with that speed and this unscrupulous government, a lot of weapons will continue to be smuggled into the country before a better and tougher control is in place. It is not reasonable for it to take over two years to deliver a bill on stricter penalties for arms smuggling, Madam President. It's time the government started working and delivering. The committee makes these two announcements in order to tackle the introduction of illegal weapons and tighten the penalties for serious weapons offences in Sweden. These are measures that must be implemented here and now. Madam President, I would like Instead of dealing with this, what does the government do? The government is putting its energy into over-implementing the weapons directive, to make it even more difficult for Sweden's legal hunters, sportsmen and collectors. In addition, it is apparently intended to accept that the police increase the demands and supervision of the country's shooting tracks. This risks leading to many shooting associations giving up and closing down their activities, which would be devastating for the shooting training and competitions in Sweden. We in the opposition will be watching very closely the weapons directive and the shooting tracks. Madam President, I would like Instead of tackling the real problems of illegal weapons, the government continues to pursue the country's legal arms owners. Our hunters, sportsmen and collectors are no problem. They take care of the hunt and the game care. They train and compete in their shooting sports. And our collectors take care of, nurture and preserve our cultural heritage. Sweden has very high demands on education. Approved tests must be carried out. It tests fitness and has strict storage requirements. These are good requirements, and they must be complied with. In addition, all gun owners are controlled every day, and if someone does something illegal, you lose confidence and possession of weapons. It is not hunting, shooting or collecting weapons that are used in serious crime, but it is usually smuggled illegal weapons. These are the ones we want the government to take hold of, but the work is slow. Madam President, I would like The third announcement is that we Moderates and a majority in committee want to see a complete review of arms legislation to facilitate the legal arms holders of the country. It is not reasonable that Sweden's hunters and sportsmen should have to wait for months to be able to get a license in the weapons closet or for their shooting sport. This needs to be reviewed so that we can do this within a reasonable time and can ensure that it does so within 30 days. Madam President, I would like We Moderates intend to stand up for the country's hunters and sportsmen and review weapons legislation to make it easier for them. In addition, we want to remove the requirement for permission for silencers. We have no permit requirements on either the scope or other aids, and of course a silencer is an option that should not have to burden the licensing authority with additional work and costs. We also want to extend the range of weapons so that hunters and sportsmen can have more weapons as the hunt and the sportsman demands it. This also means that the work of the licensing authority is facilitated by the fact that a hunter and a sportsman have the right to have more weapons than the rules today say. In addition, we want to remove the time-limited weapons licences. It is quite unreasonable for a sportsman to have to re-examine each individual weapon every five years, thus creating unnecessary work and unnecessary costs for the administrators of the licensing authority. There is also a need to remove exceptional reasons in arms legislation and replace them with other more reasonable wording. The fact that you are required to buy your fifth or sixth sporting weapon in training and competing regularly is both unreasonable and particularly unnecessary. So get rid of the extraordinary reasons and multi-year licenses! Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we did not bring with us all alliance parties to remove specific reasons, but I hope that this can be resolved later on in the major review of arms legislation. We also want to make it easier for hunters and sportsmen who travel from and into the country to competitions and hunts by reviewing the rules for this and recognising European firearms passports. EU weapons passports are used in the rest of the EU and should also be fully sufficient in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats also want to make it possible to store their weapons in a place other than their own accommodation if necessary when hunting or shooting. Unfortunately, the Center Party and the Liberals abstained from supporting this proposal, which would otherwise have given the government another announcement to resolve this. But I also hope that this proposal can be resolved in the overall review of arms legislation. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank the country's hunters very much, who are handling game management in an exemplary way. We promise to try to do what we can to enable them to trade and buy weapons without unnecessary bureaucratic hassle and lengthy processing times. I would also like to thank the country's sportsmen, who are patiently working on training and competitions. They do their work in an exemplary way. We promise to review the legislation so that they can continue with their different sporting disciplines and also be able to develop new shooting sports. I would also like to extend my sincere thanks to our arms collectors, who look after and care for our cultural heritage in an exemplary way. Madam President, I would like It is time for the government to stop the illegal weapons and stop hunting Sweden's law-abiding hunters, sportsmen and collectors. I am, of course, behind all the reservations of the Moderates, but for time-winning, I only ask for reservation 21, the storage of weapons.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1131	Madam President, I would like It is almost a bit solemn to be able to debate arms issues in a particular report. Weapons issues have usually been dealt with in the report on police matters, which deals with a great many non-weapon movements. The reason is that the implementation of the EU weapons directive was supposed to be dealt with here in late spring and that the arms issues would have been embedded in there. But it is now known that the government's positions on implementation have in advance received a majority that declared a resistance. Then the government, as I see it, has bought more time not to go on a defeat in this House. Madam President, I would like I think it has been useful for arms issues to be dealt with in a special motion report. It has certainly put the questions in a completely different spotlight, and I think that some parties have, for that reason, come to conclusions that could otherwise have been lost. Madam President, I would like The implementation of the EU arms directive was one of the first matters I had to deal with as a new Member of Parliament at the beginning of the last parliamentary term. It was the terrorist attacks in France in 2015 that caused political forces to breathe life into the issue of the EU weapons directive. They felt that legislation on legal weapons needed to be tightened up to prevent terrorist attacks and organised crime, which in itself and in substance could be called into question. What was first considered was whether the directive was compatible with the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. whether the Swedish parliament considered that arms legislation should be taken at EU level or whether it is better that each country owns the decision-making power. I came to the conclusion that each country should have the right over its own legislation, and that was also the line of my party. Other parties – all parties in addition to the Swedish Democrats – landed in and bought that the EU arms directive was compatible with the principle of subsidiarity, and the rest of history is of course known. Madam President, I would like I must honestly say that none of the seven announcements today on the table of Parliament was self-evident. Several parties in opposition lacked their own committee movements for several issues, such as the abolition of five-year licenses. But there has been intensive work going on for a short time where we have managed to land in common positions. It has not always been based on our own lyrics, but on the whole I am very happy. For example, the Swedish Democrats chose to go further in the field of extended arms wardrobe than we did in the autumn. We wanted to remove the border completely. However, in order to reach a majority, the final text resulted in an investigation into the possibility of increasing the number of weapons. This can be bought, especially in the light of the fact that the Swedish Democrats were alone in supporting the proposal to extend the arms curtain throughout the last parliamentary term as a party. We tried the matter together with other issues on two occasions during the last parliamentary term. First, it was in report 2014/ 15:JuU16. At the time, only the Swedish Democrats proposed that the arms curtain be expanded. All the other parties signed a reasoned rejection, and I was going to read out how they reasoned at the time.
i-D3MmwSjvxi6Jtd5aP4ntCs	The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights dealt with the motion for a resolution on the extension of the arms wardrobe by spring 2014 in report 2013/ 14:JuU14(p. 40 - 44). As in the past, the committee considered that the Arms Act contained appropriate trade-offs with regard to the authorisation of hunting weapons. The committee thus rejected the Swedish democrats' motion to extend the arms curtain. The fact that the law contained appropriate balances with regard to the authorisation of hunting weapons was a position that the other parties reiterated on the second occasion when, in the spring of 2017, that is, during the last parliamentary term, the Committee on Justice examined the arms issues in the police report. I would like to point out that a great deal has happened in a short time. From the time the Swedish Democrats have been alone fenced in opposition, several parties have, as it were, come out of the arms closet and recognised themselves as friends of hunting and sporting. That's good. If I may guess, some parties have decided on several issues just the days before we adjusted this report. Whatever the reason, I think that all these parties should have praise. But above all, I would like to commend everyone in the country who has committed themselves to the issues at stake. They have been heard in the debate, and they have made themselves visible to us legislators. I believe that this has been absolutely crucial because, here in Parliament today, we are delivering seven announcements on rather heavy issues where there has been justified opposition from several parties in the past. Madam President, I would like The fact is that none of the announcements that are on the table today would have become reality if the Swedish Democrats had not been in Parliament. Our votes are, and have been, absolutely crucial to reaching majorities. If there is one thing that is certain, it is that the Swedish Democrats are, by principle, the best friends of Hunting and Shooting Sweden. We are a party that dares to stand up for issues when the wind blows and when media storms make it possible for opinion to be unfavorable to take up certain positions. Let us say that legal weapons are highlighted in criminal contexts. Who do you think will then be the first to demand unreasonable austerity, and which parties in here will be the first and the last to fold? I don't think I have to tell you what that casting looks like. I believe that Sweden's hunting and shooting friends are well aware of how it had behaved. The Swedish democrats have never been dependent on media headwind to achieve political success. The Swedish Democrats are the only party that has consistently exercised and voted on proposals that have today become announcements here in Parliament. This makes the Swedish Democrats the best friends of Hunting and Shooting Sweden. Madam President, I would like Of course, we should not be satisfied there. For example, we have interpretationable concepts such as, in particular, the assessment of permits for possession of arms. This leads to miscalculation and uncertainty. We also have work to do to streamline the police's duties. Nearly 27 000 arms permits cases have been handled by the police so far this year. Here we can free up police resources, while at the same time, for example, we can create a new licensing authority that can certainly provide a more efficient and efficient customer service. There are also questions about the storage of weapons, loan certificates and some other things where the Swedish Democrats have reservations that have not yet found a majority here in Parliament. Anyone who is interested can search for a report on the Swedish Parliament's website by searching for weapons issues. The report has No 2018/ 19:JuU29. Madam President, I would like I would like to say that we in the Swedish Democrats are behind all our reservations, for which we have been fighting for a very long time. However, for the time to come in tomorrow's vote in this House, we choose to apply only for reservation 3 on a new licensing authority for arms licensing matters.
i-3sevZpK3Lse5AMfpzpNPY4	Madam President, I would like I support the Center Party's reservation No 6. Recent explosions and killings are totally unacceptable. It is clear that Sweden has major problems. It is quite clear that immediate political action is needed against organised crime. The government needs to wake up. A central part of the fight against organised crime and gang crime is to remove illegal weapons from society. 10 000 more police workers will make a difference in order to remove illegal weapons, but that is not enough. The police also need more tools in the toolbox with better regulation to deal with the illegal weapons that unfortunately exist in our society. Sweden has serious problems with crimes linked to criminal settlements. The violence that has been used has increased both in scale and, not least, in severity, in particular by increasing the use of firearms. In order to combat criminal gangs and serious organised crime, the penalties for gun crimes need to be tightened up. We also need to tighten up the control of illegal weapons being smuggled in. The Center Party wants arms smuggling – just like drug smuggling – to become its own crime rubrication in order for us to be able to get to the problems seriously. Let me be extremely clear. Illegal weapons do not belong in our society. Weapons possession and smuggling should have severe and immediate consequences. There is a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament, and that is very good. But – a big but – one must be able to distinguish between apples and pears. You have to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. Illegible weapons are to be removed. But let me be equally clear that we are to protect our hunters, our sportsmen and our arms collectors. It's possible to combine. It is claimed by many, even by our own Prime Minister inside this House, that we need changed laws on legal weapons in order to combat serious organised crime and gang crime. It is a directly ignorant, unread and, in substance, wrong statement. There is no proven link whatsoever between legal gun owners, gang crime and organised crime. On the other hand, there is research that clearly shows that legal weapons have no connection with organised crime and gang crime. The question is: Why this witch hunt against the country's sportsmen, hunters and arms collectors? The answer must be that some parties and politicians want to see generally tougher arms laws in Sweden. That picture just confirmed the Social Democrats. We in the Center Party, on the other hand, can keep two thoughts in mind at the same time. We want to make illegal weapons more difficult and, at the same time, stimulate the country's sportsmen, hunters and collectors to continue their interests. The implementation of the EU Weapons Directive has given many hunters, sportsmen and collectors a big lump in their stomachs. The Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Left Party and, unfortunately, the Moderates also voted in favour of the directive, which is extremely regrettable. The way the government has tried to over-implement the directive is directly irresponsible. There is a majority in the Swedish Parliament for our collectors to continue collecting, for the country's hunters to continue hunting and for the country's sportsmen to continue to train, compete and win titles around the world. As if it is not enough, a concern has spread around the country because the police would like to control temporary shooting tracks harder. This will not be accepted by the Center Party, but we expect the police to listen to the criticism they have received so far and will receive in the forthcoming round of consultations. I understand and feel with our legal and very careful gun owners who feel chased by government and politicians. Sweden has many and big problems. Legal gun owners are not one of those. We should not create problems that do not exist but tear down bureaucratic obstacles and administration that are not needed. There are a great many enthusiasts who have long struggled to tear down bureaucratic obstacles and the administration that has long been a problem for hunters, sportsmen and arms collectors. Today they deserve our great thanks. Thank you for fighting, and thank you for getting the Riksdag to understand that we need major changes in Swedish arms policy! Tomorrow we look to make decisions on five very sensible announcements on the following issues: These are five very good and wise decisions, but we in the Center Party are of course not satisfied here. For example, we would have liked the Parliament to support a new licensing authority for arms licensing matters tomorrow. Police activities in the field of weapons licensing have been working very badly for several years. We do not believe that this is an issue that is most appropriate to be dealt with by the Police Authority. Unfortunately, there is no majority for this in the Swedish Parliament. It is regrettable that we cannot even get a majority in favour of a review of the authorisation of weapons, so that it is a faster process than it is today. The Center Party also wants us to decide that the government should push for a review of EU arms legislation. It is quite obvious that it is difficult to understand, complicated and, in many cases, directly ill. Even if we make a great many wise decisions tomorrow, the Center Party will continue to listen to the country's hunters, sportsmen and arms collectors to develop our arms policy and drive other parties and politicians. Madam President, I would like The Parliament will send out two very clear signals tomorrow. Illegral weapons are to be removed from our society. But collectors should be able to continue collecting, the country's hunters should be able to continue hunting and the country's sportsmen should be able to continue to train, compete and win championships around the world.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1164	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased to be here today to debate the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on arms issues. It's a subject that's very close to my heart. These are extremely important issues, not least for Sweden's hunters and sportsmen. This is also an important issue for Sweden's rural areas, where a large part of these exist, and it is an important both nutrition and hobby. It is particularly funny because we Christian Democrats have had such a big impact on many of our motions. This applies, among other things, to licence requirements for silencers, limited-term weapons licences and an extended weapons wardrobe. The Christian Democrats want to make it easier for law-abiding hunters and shooters, and that is why these breakthroughs are important. A silencer is in itself not dangerous, unless you choose to use it as an accessory to hit someone with. There is no reason why such a licence should be compulsory. If you can present a license for a gun, you should be able to buy a silencer, without further testing. In the report, the government parties and the Left Party write a special opinion on precisely silencers explaining why they choose not to make a reservation. They refer to the implementation of the Weapons Directive and to the release of the licence requirement. But the government chose not to include it in the legislative referral even though it is included in Åberg's investigation. Now you seem to be pretending you want to drop the license requirement. But where is the proposal in reality? Explain that to the one who can. Can the government give an answer to this in the debate here today? There are many of us who wonder about that. As far as temporary licences are concerned, we already have them in practice today. All gun license holders are checked every 24 hours against police records. That is why we believe that temporary licences have played their part. In addition, it increases the burden on the authority handling licence applications, as if it does not already have long queues. Madam President, I would like A shooter or hunter does not become more dangerous if it has five weapons instead of four, or seven weapons instead of six in its gun cabinet. It is therefore gratifying that we are now making a decision to review the weapons closet and its limitations. But say the joy that lasts. I would like to spend some of my speaking time on what has taken up much of my time since I entered Parliament this autumn, namely the implementation of the EU arms directive. It is one of the questions I have received by far the most e-mail about. It has really engaged Sweden's hunters and shooters. A thousand thanks to everyone for their commitment and for recording! It's so valuable to get it. In mid-May, I asked the Prime Minister during the Prime Minister's Question Time why the government chose to punish Sweden's law-abiding hunters and shooters by overimplementing the Weapons Directive. His response removed all doubts about the government's objectives with the implementation. Although both ministers Johansson and Bucht have previously been clear, at least in the election movement 2018, with the government not wanting to make it more difficult for Sweden's law-abiding hunters and shooters, the Prime Minister's answer was the opposite. The Prime Minister first made it clear that all the shootings we see in society today are not the hunters' and sportsmen's fault. But the government had to act. That is precisely why the aforementioned groups are being framed, even though he himself said they were innocent. The curtain is going down! Madam President, I would like In 2018, we had 306 shootings in Sweden, 45 dead, and the police clearance rate is historically low. Therefore, the focus must be on the introduction and use of illegal weapons, not on the legal owners whose weapons do not appear in crime statistics. We Christian Democrats are therefore opposed to any attempt by the government to over-implement the arms directive. The referral machine can hardly be more unambiguous. Yet the government chooses to drive all the way into the tile so that it blows, even though it only gives a headache and no majority. Drop the prestige, redo and do the right thing! Madam President, I would like In the run-up to this debate, I called some arms dealers back home in Värmland to check the state of play regarding waiting times for arms licences. This has been a grieving child in general throughout the country for a very long time. This is one thing with several negative sides. Many hunters and sportsmen have to wait unnecessarily long to get their weapons or other licensed parts, which can spoil parts of or a whole hunting or shooting season. In addition, it leads to major economic problems for the entrepreneurs involved in the arms trade. One of the people I spoke to before the debate had his arms bunker in the store full of weapons now waiting to come to their rightful owners. For this arms dealer – i.e. for an arms dealer – it was over 800 000 kroner that he slept with, because he does not receive the payment for the weapons until the license is approved. Unfortunately, several hunting and arms dealers have gone bankrupt in recent years precisely because of too long waiting times. Their economy has not been able to cope. Licensing can be simplified in several ways, as we suggest in our sports. Among other things, we believe that a hunter or shooter who trades in a weapon should be able to buy a new one in the same class without the need for a new trial. After all, the person has already been considered fit to possess such a weapon. That would radically reduce the queues. The rules governing the granting of licences need to be clarified. There are, for example, today that hunters or shooters are denied weapons because the weapons are too precise and too high in weight and wrong in appearance. This is because there is room for interpretation around the provisions of the law. Therefore, the law should be clarified in order to remove the authority's margin to refuse licences on vague grounds. The same applies to the rules on the storage of weapons. Here too, legal certainty in the management of public authorities should be strengthened. In a debate we had in the Environment and Agriculture Committee last week, I mentioned an interpellation debate on government activism that I had with Minister Shekarabi earlier in our ass. It was a rather interesting debate. The answers I received in the debate were very good. But it was on paper. The reality is far more different than what the Government said. We must get rid of government activism and instead get a rule of law worthy of the name also for Sweden's arms holders. We also believe that when an arms licence case goes to court, legal aid should be provided. In addition, we believe that the entire licensing process should be moved from the police to the new hunting and game management agency, which we have decided to establish, but which the government is doing everything it can not to set up. As we heard earlier in the debate, the decision was taken in March 2015, yet the government has not complied with the Riksdag. It is shameful, Madam President! Over the last 20 years, hundreds of hunters have been forced to close, often as a result of the Polis Authority's demand that the operation must have a certain number of arms transactions per year in order to sell weapons. Without the possibility of selling weapons and ammunition, the sale of other goods will also not be possible. On the contrary, small businesses in hunting should be encouraged because they create jobs, often in rural areas. If we are to make the transition to a non-fossil society, we really need a living countryside, because it is rural areas that provide the resources. Then we can't put one pillar away after another. We will soon have no one living in rural areas who can actually manage the important resources for the future of Sweden as a whole. Do we want the whole of Sweden to live, or is it just a thick one-liner? By the way in which we act on the issues we are debating now, we are, in any case, showing what direction we are taking. The direction of government parties certainly leaves a few things to be desired. Of course we support all our reservations. However, I am in favour of reservation 15 on licensing in the event of a change of arms.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1186	Madam President, I would like In Sweden we have relatively strict legislation in the field of weapons. Whoever wants to own a gun needs a license, and to use a weapon, you need to run a shooting test. All the hunters and shooters in Sweden who have firearms have thus undergone a trial. Weapons must be locked in weapons cabinets, and the whole thing is relatively tightly regulated for shipping and also for ammunition and accessories. It's a good order. Why is that a good order? Well, it's a good order because weapons are by definition lethal. That is why regulation must be tough. With weapons in the wrong hands, there can be fatal accidents. But there can also be attacks. Peter Mangs in Malmö was mentioned earlier in the debate. He didn't have an illegal weapon when he committed his murders and attempted murder. This is, of course, more visible in countries that do not have as tough legislation as we do in Sweden. Unfortunately, in the worst examples, which almost have no control at all, this happens on a regular basis. The gun lobby usually says that legal Swedish weapons are rarely used in criminal contexts and in shootings in public places. It's true. But why should we risk this changing? Why should we risk that weapons not only enter from Eastern Europe illegally, but also enter weapons that have been legal in the orbit? Madam President, I would like I find it remarkable that there are so many people who want to loosen up Swedish legislation. One might think that each of the things that have been mentioned earlier in the speaker's chair is small steps. But all in all, they indicate a clear direction. What are the next steps? Well, that's a question. When the wish list you have spoken about is completed, is there a stop there, or will there be further proposals? And if so, who are they? The question is also what problems you intend to solve. Is there anyone who wants to engage in hunting, shooting or the like and who cannot do so today? No, we have regulations, but those who pass the shooting tests and the tests have no problem possessing weapons. The proposal to make it easier to bring arms to Sweden is not a good proposal. Are we sure how the arms legislation works in the Czech Republic, Romania and Lithuania? Is it going to be as easy as possible to bring weapons in from there? What can be the consequences for various authorities, such as customs and border police, in their work against illegal weapons? There are also proposals to extend the range of weapons and to remove limited-term licences. You want to make it easier in every way possible. My question is, why? How do you see in the event that someone forgets to lock their gun cabinet and that a larger number of weapons than today will then come onto the market and risk being used in shootings? Madam President, I would like I would like to endorse Amendment No 12.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1194	Madam President, I would like Now we may at last have the opportunity to get an answer from someone who represents a government party on this issue. It is remarkable to note that you think it should be extremely difficult for our hunters and our sportsmen who are going to travel between different countries to practise hunting or shooting. You don't want to make that easier. Apparently, it should be difficult to get out and out of the country with your weapons, for which you have licenses and other things, and to go through customs and show that you have weapons. That part should be complicated in your Sweden. On the other hand, when it comes to bringing in the illegal weapons, you are not laying down resources to the full. Then you'll sit and investigate for two years. It is these weapons that are the problem! But you let them in, while you hunt ordinary sportsmen and hunters when they're going to get in and out of the country with their guns for competitions and hunting. Isn't that a very strange act? I see no problem with the weapons that our hunters and sportsmen have, because they are extremely careful to manage the weapons in such an exemplary way that they are not in danger of losing their licenses. I also have another question to answer. Now we've been waiting four years for a new wildlife agency. Surely you must keep it up at some point in your sittings and discuss it. When is the proposal coming? When do we have it on Parliament's table? Does Parliament have to go so far as to go in and add this to it itself and simply completely run over the government in the matter? We have been discussing the long processing times for many years. They are precisely due to the lack of clarity that we have in arms legislation with particular reasons and multi-annual arms licences that are to be reviewed each year. This provides increased work for our police, who are looking at these weapons licenses. You still want to keep this order, even though it would make a lot easier if you didn't have to do this extreme thing for a very serious reason.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1199	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to hear the voice of the gun lobby in Parliament. The question you have to ask yourself is what the long-term goal is. Would Sten Bergheden be satisfied, Madam President, if he got through his catalogue with loosening of Swedish arms legislation? Or would he, after doing so, want to take further steps? And what is the ultimate goal? Should we have any regulation at all? With regard to the arms crime, it was the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government that ensured that the penalty was raised for weapons crimes and serious weapons crimes. I'm not the one who at all times thinks that raising the penalty is the way to go. But in this case it has made a real difference. There have been many more who have been arrested because of gun crimes, and this was something that did not happen when Sten Bergheden's Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt and his Minister of Justice were in the government. I think it is good that we have made this change. There are more people in custody, and we have got both weapons and illegal weapon carriers off the streets. It is also something that ultimately reduces the shootings and something that has been very important. I note that with the proposals made by the Moderates we would risk having a situation in which legal weapons that already exist would become illegal because they would risk falling into the wrong hands. The Moderates want to soften the rules that exist and that exist for a reason. All the hunters I encounter are also pleased that we have strict Swedish arms legislation and think we should continue to have it.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1204	Madam President, I would like This is a strange reasoning. It is not our hunting weapons or our sporting weapons that are used in serious crime. Yet Rasmus Ling feels that it is reasonable to have tough demands and even sharpen them further for ordinary sportsmen and hunters in the country. It is a very strange act when, at the same time, borders are opened against the illegal transport of weapons into the country. That's what you're looking at. You don't know what to do with it. That's the serious thing. Rasmus Ling can watch almost every case when it comes to illegal possession of weapons and serious crimes: These weapons do not come from any sportsmen or hunters. That's why hunting hunters and sportsmen with even tougher rules makes it very misleading. They want to try to tighten things up because they claim that these weapons may become illegal in the future. But there can be many other things too. We had a truck on Drottninggatan that caused major disasters in Stockholm, but you cannot go in and ban all trucks for it. We have no trouble with our hunters and our sporting weapons. Yet you work hard on all fronts and say no to our proposals to make it easier for hunters and sportsmen to practice their sport and hunt. It is important for the countryside that you can have the right weapons when you are out hunting different species of game. It is both a matter of safety and a question of respect for wild game hunting that you can have the right equipment in this situation. You do not think that is reasonable, but you say: Stop, more weapons must not a law-abiding hunter have! On the other hand, we do not care about these border issues, because we are looking at them and looking at whether we might be shutting down the illegal introduction of illegal weapons. But sportsmen and hunters will hunt! It is the wrong policy, and that policy will never win legal force here in the Swedish Parliament.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1210	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important to have a tough hold on illegal weapons coming in from other countries. Even for the legal weapons that can come from abroad, we should have tough rules. It's obvious. We have also strengthened customs and police. The fight against organised crime and illegal weapons is a high priority for this government, unlike the alliance government that sat before. Sten Bergheden claims that I would have said that legal weapons are often used. I didn't. What I've been saying is that legal weapons can become illegal. They may fall into the wrong hands. They could end up in such an orbit. The question is why we should loosen the legislation. We have not made any proposals in the report to tighten up and make it more difficult, but what we have said is that we do not want to make this kind of mitigation and risk creating problems that do not exist today. Today, not many legal weapons are being used in shootings or in crime, but why should we risk creating a problem that could have as dramatic and dangerous consequences as it could actually be? I don't think that's the way to go.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1213	Madam President, I would like There are many questions I would like to ask Rasmus Ling, but I have to try to limit myself. Both the representative of the Social Democrats and Rasmus Ling mention a crime in which hunting or sporting weapons have occurred – a criminal. The study carried out with regard to the use of weapons in serious crimes shows that during the ten - year period of the measurements 1.2 weapons a year came from hunting or sports shooting — 1.2 weapons of all weapons found in serious crimes. These 1.2 weapons are precisely the focus of government representatives, not all the illegal weapons coming in from the Balkans, for example, which Mr Rasmus mentioned in his speech earlier. Why do you focus on these 1.2 weapons per year instead of taking a strong stance on the illegal weapons and shootings in Sweden? There the government really has a job to do. Why, Rasmus Ling?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1215	Madam President, I would like I'm still a little fascinated by the bourgeois fascination with weapons. We are accused here in the speaker's chair of not having proposals against illegal weapons, when the truth is that we have had a long series of reinforcements of authorities and proposals that we have implemented to get to grips with this very thing. It has also produced results, not least when we tightened the penalty for gun crimes. Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson says that 1.2 weapons per year are used and only one bomber can be mentioned. I can also mention Anders Behring Breivik and Mattias Flink, should the honourable Member wish to have more examples. However, my question is, Madam President: how many acts do we have to come up with in order for Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson to think that this will be a problem? I think that one or two cases a year are actually a problem. And if it increases, as will happen if the rules are relaxed enough, it becomes an even worse problem. Today's legislation does not prevent hunters and shooters from carrying out their activities. The fact that we have tough regulation benefits those who use the weapons, but it also benefits society at large. I would like to ask: what is the objective of the Christian Democrats? Do you want to do all this? Do you not see the risks that it would entail if you loosen it this way?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1220	Madam President, I would like Anders Behring Breivik had no hunting weapon. Should we therefore also ban diesel? Should we ban fertilizers? That's what he used for the bomb in Oslo. Mattias Flink had weapons from the defense, if I'm not mistaken. Here's Rasmus Ling sailing. He asks how many acts are going to be done to make us want to tighten the law. We want to tighten up the law, but it's for those who actually commit crimes. Why should the law be tightened up for law-abiding hunters and sportsmen who do not commit crimes? Once again, Rasmus Ling : 1.2 weapons per year. This is not where you save Sweden from all these shootings. Rasmus Ling also said in his speech that it is remarkable that so many people want to relax the legislation. I think it is far more remarkable, Madam President, that the Rasmus Ling government does not deliver when it comes to taking strong action against illegal weapons, but instead goes to law-abiding hunters and sportsmen, not least in the Weapons Directive. My second question relates precisely to the arms directive. I mentioned it in my speech but did not receive an answer. Therefore, I would like to ask Rasmus Ling: Why are you pretending that you want license-free silencers? That is what the special opinion says, but it is not part of the legislative referral. Where's it gone?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1225	Madam President, I would like Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson again claims that we would have proposals to tighten up the legislation, which we do not have in this report. They're delusions. The proposals we have to take a position on are a long series of loosenings which, taken together, would have terrible consequences and make society more dangerous. There is no reason to create problems that do not exist. How you can go the path that the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats have gone when you prioritise in this way, is for me a riddle. Madam President, I would like As far as the arms directive is concerned, I can see that there has been no proposal on it. We don't know what it's gonna look like. The aim of the arms directive – it was of course the Moderates Anna Maria Corazza Bildt who led the work on it in the European Parliament – was to make Europe safer, that there would be tougher arms legislation in several of the EU countries that do not have the same tough legislation as we have in Sweden. I think it was good. It is particularly necessary in cases where it is intended to make it easier to carry arms across borders in the way proposed in the report. Madam President, I would like I think it would be very stupid and bad for this country if these proposals were to become a reality. Let's work because they won't.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1229	Madam President, I would like Many responded to Rasmus Ling's article in Aftonbladet earlier today. I reacted because I think the Green Party cannot distinguish between legal and illegal weapons. We have also heard a number of examples in this House which again confuse apples and pears. The Green Party and Rasmus Ling also write in the article that the country's gun owners in the form of hunters and sportsmen are satisfied with today's weapons legislation. I wonder what the Green Party is basing it on. If you look at Rasmus Ling Twitter just a moment ago, it doesn't really feel like hunters and sportsmen around the country share that picture. The Weapons Directive has also caused a great deal of concern. In fact, you would have liked to go forward with the Council of Law referral presented by the government if there had been a majority for this in this House. Thank God there isn't. Neither hunters nor sportsmen are satisfied with the product you have previously presented. You say hunters and sportsmen are satisfied with today's weapons legislation. I simply wonder: on what basis does the Green Party base this claim?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1233	Madam President, I would like I have never claimed, neither in today's article nor in any context, that all hunters, arms collectors and sportsmen would advocate today's arms legislation. There are 600 000, and of course there are different views in such a large group. But that most of Sweden's hunters think that we should have a regulated and strong arms legislation in Sweden, I am absolutely convinced and sure of. I do not think that most of the 600 000 hunters would like more flexible storage, no requirements for silencers, unlimited arms in the closet, abolished licensing periods and facilitated arms trade in this way. Madam President, I would like I have no problem with separating legal and illegal weapons at all. As I have said in previous speeches, we have taken a wide range of measures to tackle illegal weapons. I note that even when the Center Party was part of the then government, there was not enough in this area. It wasn't arrest if you were armed with sharp-charged weapons, as it is now. However, I can see that if mitigations are made, the risk of legal weapons coming out and being used also increases in Helsingborg, Malmö or in other places where we should work to reduce shootings rather than facilitating compared to today's regulation.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1237	Madam President, I would like I hope that everyone in here wants regulated and strong arms legislation, but that has nothing to do with the proposals on the table. That's where we split up. It is not about us wanting to make more weapons available for gang crime. That's where we're in complete agreement, and that's great. But the proposals that are on Parliament's table and that are to be voted on tomorrow will not mean that either. I am absolutely convinced that many of the 600 000 arms owners want to see some changes. I am not a gun owner myself and have never attended a course to get a gun license or anything, but I can listen to my friends who study at Ultuna when they describe the problem they have. I am convinced that there are many arms owners around the country who would like to see a change in arms legislation in order to reduce their bureaucracy and administration. I have a simple and straightforward question to Rasmus Ling: How will it affect crime that legal and orderly arms owners may have seven weapons instead of five in their arms closet?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1240	Madam President, I would like If you forget to lock the gun cabinet, as apparently happens from time to time, it makes quite a difference if there are seven, five or three weapons in the cabinet. In fact, it has a direct impact on the person who steals the weapons and what can happen to them in a later situation. I understand that this is my final line. But the question I asked before gets to hang rhetorically in the air, and I would like to have an answer to it in some context: what is it that has to happen where illegal weapons have come out of the way that the Center Party would think that it should not go in a relaxing direction but endorse the tough Swedish arms legislation we have?
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1242	Madam President, I would like About a year ago, I had an interpellation debate with Minister Johansson on the implementation of the EU weapons directive. I wrote a question from a total defense perspective. I have been a member of the Defence Committee for the last two and a half years. Together, in a broad parliamentary spirit, we have worked constructively on issues relating to strengthening our defence capabilities. How we deal with arms issues in Sweden is connected with our total defence, with our overall capability and with our view of weapons handling and what weapons are for. We have been able to take note of Joakim Sandell's comments about the view of weapons and about killing as effectively as possible. Yeah, I'm hunting to survive. I hunt with my weapons to shed game in the forest and land, and it feeds on my kitchen table. There are too many Swedes hunting and living for hunting in the forest and land. I've heard environmentalist Rasmus Ling talk about weapons being lethal. Yes, it is an extremely interesting and important observation. It is lethal weapons that we handle, but it is about safe weapons handling for many Swedes. It is about lifelong learning in terms of views and values and also the purpose of the various tools and what we use to hunt or hunt around in our communities. I am thinking a lot about why the Social Democrats, together with environmentalists and left-wing parties, are opposed to the important announcements that the committee has now put on the table of Parliament. I note a distorted perception of reality and a lack of a holistic perspective at a time when more and more people would have to practice shooting and when more and more shooting ranges need to open around Sweden so that both police and military but also youth activities can be developed and so that hunting teams have the opportunity to develop their shooting, all to make us better at handling weapons and inspire more people to get involved in these issues. There is clearly a job to be done for the government parties when it comes to the overall perspective. In the coming year, we in Parliament will be dealing with the next defence-oriented bill, which will be presented. At the same time, we are dealing with the implementation of the EU's work, and this must go together. There must be a fundamental harmonisation of how you view arms issues in your parties, Rasmus Ling, because now I see that things are going in completely different directions. I work closely with Social Democratic representatives in the defence policy, where together we take steps to facilitate the development of total defence. Madam President, I would like Voluntary defence organisations play a key role in the work. Two of these eighteen are the Swedish Pistol Shooting Federation and the Swedish Shooting Sports Federation. Then we have additional activities within the dynamic shooting and other shooting associations that do a hugely important job and engage many Swedes. These are activities that need to be in a position to develop. They also need to have a bureaucracy and an administrative application that supports instead of slowing down and hindering. It is our responsibility in Parliament to create the conditions for this. That is why I am very pleased with what the Center Party has contributed to in the announcements that are now being proposed and which are on the table of Parliament.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1249	Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight a perspective that may not come out in the debate. I am absolutely convinced that everyone agrees that arms crimes and illegal weapons should be prosecuted and that we should fight it. There's really no confrontatory line there. I come from the countryside in northern Dalarna, and there hunting and shooting is an important part of life. Many centuries of tradition is behind it. There is a risk that we are over-implementing when we implement EU directives and that we are creating new regulations all the time. I am absolutely sure that we, from all the parties, are standing in the speaker's seat and saying that we should reduce the regulatory burden, but in the end we always want to introduce a little more rules to regulate something that we think is bad or dangerous. Over-implementing and the regulatory burden can be linked to other parts. Around the country there have been uprisings during the spring: Inland uprisings, rural uprisings and gas uprisings. For many years we have had a huge wolf debate in the countryside. In fact, all of this, I think, is a sign that you feel abandoned in the countryside. The state, the power and the city oppose rural conditions. I am among those who have received an incredible number of emails on this issue. This is another layer of everything else that seeks to limit the opportunities for rural people to live and work. It's relatively difficult to take the hunter'sxamen. The shooting tests that hunters do every year are also relatively difficult, at least for me. It's not that simple; the demands are high. If we impose even more demands and make it even more difficult, we will not facilitate the recruitment of new hunters. We need hunters to take care of the game and keep the game. We have a lot of cloven-hoofed game in the country, causing a lot of damage. The wild boar strain has grown exponentially. I hear we have around 300 000 wild boars today compared to zero a few years ago. As Daniel Bäckström mentioned, wildly good, climate-smart food without antibiotics. The hunt also means a lot to the tourism industry, as well as recreation and leisure. The shooter gathers many people. And we've got hunters standing up for traffic damage to the wild to be tracked out in the woods. Who's going to do it in the future if we just mess up and make it harder for hunters? Hunters are not a social problem. In our efforts to prevent crime, law-abiding citizens suffer. When we discuss these issues and laws and rules, I think we should think about what the sum of all the rules and laws means for people in rural areas.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1257	Madam President, I would like Now we are going to talk about the taxation of agency staff, as it is called, where the committee proposes a declaration to the government that it will urgently carry out an impact assessment of the Swedish Tax Agency's interpretation based on current EU law that consultancy solutions in healthcare are subject to VAT. The background is that, just over a year ago, the Supreme Administrative Court decided that temporary agency employment of health workers should not be exempt from VAT. This involves an investigation into how to give more to those who already have while ordinary people pay. That will not be supported by the Left Party. The problem today is that tax money that could have gone to health care goes to more expensive hired personnel. There is already a system of VAT compensation for municipalities and county councils. The system shall prevent private operators from being favoured or disadvantaged in relation to the general public. Madam President, I would like What is happening today is a distortion of competition to the detriment of permanent doctors. With the tax rules we have with the 3:12 rules, a doctor can pay up to 100 000 SEK per year in lower tax if compared to a permanent employee in a county council-run or private health care facility. In addition, the standard compensation for private-run care has been found to be too high. This is what the Left Party wants to change. Hired doctors can earn 80,000 a week while a nurse's average today is under 25,000 a month. Salary space is thus reduced for all permanent employees, and less money is left for care. Therefore, under the pretext of caring for better care for people in rural areas, all other parties now want to ensure the already high incomes of relay doctors. The security of meeting the same doctor is put on an exception, and the risk of misdiagnosing increases. Health care's lack of resources should be the focus of the debate, not privileged groups' finding problems. And, Madam President, you are not behind the float, so it is quite clear that for a moment this is not a matter of concern about people's need for care. On the contrary, the concerns of people in the country were blown away even when the budget decision was taken last winter, and today's budget debate and decisions also show that concern for the metropolitan rich areas is at the heart of all the other parties. But even this is clearly not enough – not for the 73-point gang and not for the outer right. No, the already implemented or initiated tax cuts for very high incomes, abolished military tax, pressured sickness benefit, increased retirement age and scrapped employment services are not enough. Now the luck has come to protect the very vulnerable group of well-paid relay doctors. Otherwise, the world will end, at least in the inner city of Stockholm – and everyone lives there. Madam President, I would like If they were serious about the anxiety, they would have invested money instead. There are certainly problems: queues, hospital building, overcrowding, lack of continuity and, indeed, people die because they do not receive the care they are entitled to. But the money goes to the wrong things. In five years, the cost of health - care workers has almost doubled, just to give an example. Of course, the fact that this has long been the policy of the Right is not news. They are rarely honest in their argumentation but usually consistently put forward proposals that benefit the wealthy at the expense of ordinary people. The budget adopted by this House last winter and the 73 points on which the current budget is based are clear proof of this very thing. But the sharper the outline of government policy becomes, the clearer the question arises: What is really in this social democratic policy? Hasn't a single item in the 73-point program been passed? For if it had really been precisely what is mentioned in the report, competition neutrality, could the focus of the investigation have been broader? Madam President, I would like I quote, ‘If it is something that this House should agree on, it is taking a strong stance against the hired staff.' A major problem to overcome this is the fact that it is more fiscally beneficial to be hired from your own company than to be a permanent employee. ..................................................... So said Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson in an interpellation debate here in the Chamber about four months ago. Now there's another sound in the bark. But maybe that's what you can do when you're in bad company. Madam President, I would like I commend our reservation.
i-CUxFiW3WrpyKQUFhBuctH5	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with the Tax Committee's report No 25, which deals with the taxation of the hiring of health workers. The committee proposes that the Government should urgently carry out an impact assessment of the Swedish Tax Agency's interpretation that consultancy solutions in healthcare are subject to VAT and, if necessary, return with a proposal to the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like In a judgment of 7 June 2018, the Supreme Administrative Court ruled that temporary agency employment of health workers should not be exempt from VAT. The Court found that the hiring of health workers does not constitute health care, hospital care or medical treatment to be exempt under the EU VAT Directive. Consequently, the lease was not subject to the exemption of the Directive. There can, of course, be comments on the directive. The alternative is to negotiate it, which is said to be difficult and time consuming. Another solution is to leave the EU, which is even more difficult – we see the chaos in the UK – or to live with the directive. In the interpretation, it is the temporary employment service provided by the company that must be examined against the exemption provisions. According to the Supreme Administrative Court, rental services as such do not constitute medical care. Finally, the Supreme Administrative Court notes that it is irrelevant for the assessment whether or not the medical doctors are employed.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1272	Then we can see that there is a compensation system for municipalities and county councils. It is a flat-rate compensation of 6% for the additional cost of VAT that arises when private operators have no right to deduct. The scheme aims to counter the distortion of competition. According to SOU 2015:93, this flat-rate compensation was highly calculated. But that was a few years ago, and it is of course important to recalculate it. A friend of order might ask himself: is there an initiative needed, and is the tax committee the right committee to prepare this? You can probably see it a little differently when it comes to whether it is our question or not. On the one hand, it is a VAT issue. On the other hand, it is a question of compensation, and that is, of course, the area of the Committee on Finance. The Committee has been informed on two occasions by the Ministry of Finance on the matter. It now feels more like it is about the compensation system. Can't the government just decide on a solution? But we do have the principle of local self-government in the country and funding principles that usually apply between the state and the municipality. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal. It will be interesting to see if the flat-rate compensation is still too high.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1277	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are behind the report that is now before Parliament. I would also like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that we have a specific opinion on this matter. The committee initiative that was taken stated that the government should return, if necessary, with proposals to resolve the problems that have arisen for equal and fair care in this country given the laws and rules that apply. It is quite clear to us that there is such a need, but we intend, of course, to give the government the opportunity to find out by first doing this analysis. We therefore support the text of the report as it stands. It is quite clear, however, that if one receives 25% higher costs overnight, there is a need to resolve this in some way. Madam President, I would like We have courts that judge independence. We have authorities that apply the laws and regulations that apply. It is an indisputable order for us moderates that this applies. The responsibility incumbent on us as politicians, on the other hand, is to ask us the questions about laws and rules is what we want them to be, whether we want them to be different or whether, when we understand how they are interpreted and used, we want them to be adjusted or whether we should somehow compensate for the effect they have. I am somewhat concerned about the slowness that has prevailed in this matter. It has long been known to the government and its support parties, the Liberals and the Center Party, that this change would come into place. The Tax Agency has been clear that it will apply from the end of the year, but there has been a great reluctance to do anything about this. Since this is my last speech in this House before the summer break, I would like to take this opportunity to be a little generous. For example, I can commend the Left Party, which is very clear about the underlying motives for welcoming the new interpretation and has not wanted to take any compensatory or legislative measures. It is about this being a mercy to the possibility of conducting private care around Sweden. Here the Left Party is honourablely clear. There was also a noise of this clarity when the Minister of Finance visited the committee. The initiative that has since come and as there is now, with the exception of the Left Party, there is a consensus to implement the foundations that we cannot have a system in Sweden where there are extremely different conditions between private and public care. The conditions must be reasonably similar. Madam President, I would like This issue is very serious in that care in Sweden is in a strained situation. I agree with the chairman of the committee that it is not primarily a tax issue. But almost everything can become tax matters because it is tax on almost everything and many times, moreover, far too high taxes. This means that the existing tax policy and the way in which tax legislation is interpreted and used affect almost all parts of society. We have seen growing care queues, and we know that outside the big cities there is an extra concern about recruiting health professionals and getting doctors to come and work in hospitals and health centres. This decision means – it is uncontested that this is the case because it is independent courts and authorities that use the laws and regulations that exist – that staff will be 25% more expensive to hire overnight. Then it is no longer a level playing field for public and private activities. Then, of course, we also run the risk of having great injustices between parts of the country. Madam President, I would like I have great respect for those who have views on the rental medical system. I have great respect for those who say that it may not be a reasonable order over time for doctors to label their business and rent out instead of becoming employees and so on. All of this can be discussed in a reasonable way. It is no coincidence – at least not for me as a moderate, who knows that financial incentives matter – when we have pushed taxes on a doctor's job or a qualified nurse's job to 40, 50 and many times over 60% that tax becomes an important factor in deciding and prioritising. But is that discussion to be resolved by leaving it to authorities to interpret laws and rules? Yes, of course. But shouldn't you consider in the next step whether the conditions are still the same? It is crystal clear that there is a huge shift in terms of conditions. It will no longer be possible to provide these services privately anymore. In particular, those health centres and hospitals that are most difficult to recruit – they are often outside the big cities and far away from medical education – are at risk of being hit by a severe blow. That is what this is all about, in short. I regret that the Centre Party and the Liberals have not managed to maintain their part of the January agreement, namely that there should be a level playing field. Instead, spring has been allowed to go. At least this position has now been reached. We support it and welcome it. We will, of course, be following this issue closely. This applies both to what the government does and to the Liberals and the Center Party living up to the commitments they have given to the Swedish people and which are in a common basis of values for us in the old alliance parties: One should be able to conduct private activities around the country. I wish everyone – Madam President, everyone in the committee, the cabinet and the staff – a happy summer and promise you all to follow this issue particularly closely in the future. This promise applies in particular to the Center Party and the Liberals, who must nevertheless be said to have an extra responsibility to ensure that this part of the January agreement is maintained on a level playing field. Happy summer!
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1290	Madam President, I would like I do not think anyone in this Chamber is unaware of the crisis that exists in Swedish health care today. The healthcare queues are growing longer and accessibility is perceived by an increasing number as worse. The skills gap is already high and is expected to increase even more as welfare needs grow. Everywhere we hear health institutions struggling to find qualified staff, perhaps mainly doctors. This has been solved by many health care providers, especially in rural areas, by hiring the skills needed in their operations. How is it that there is such a shortage of doctors in Sweden? One can certainly point to operational shortcomings where the effectiveness of care is likely to be called into question and improved. But it is also a question of both historical and perhaps even today being trained too few doctors, even though the number of training places has increased slightly. Madam President, I would like How often do we hear colleagues standing in this Chamber asking each other over when it comes to how many new police officers or how many new teachers are to be trained? In order to fill all these places at the police academy and the teacher's college, it has since unfortunately had to reduce the admission requirements considerably. However, among those applying for medical school at the university, it looks a little different. There you needed to be admitted to one of the country's medical courses on average either 1.7 on the university exam or the grade score 22.0 out of 22.5 possible. At the most popular higher education institution, admissions are also made with lotteries among the applicant students with top grades. Now I do not advocate copying the highly hesitant way of getting more students into police and teacher education, but I just want to illustrate that every year there are students with almost the highest grades who apply to medical school but still do not come in. Having said that, Madam President, I shall return to the area of the Committee on Taxation. I do not believe that we Swedish democrats are the only ones to think that care must work in rural areas, mainly for the sake of patients. Despite the lack of doctors, we believe that there must be competition neutrality between public and private healthcare providers. The industry has pointed out that with the new interpretation of VAT application made by the Tax Agency, there will in fact no longer be competition neutrality between private and public carers. This is particularly unfortunate because it will affect not only private carers, but also primary patients and hospitals, especially in smaller places where skills are more forced to hire, either because there are simply no employable doctors or because the skills in question cannot be employed full-time. That is why we support the committee initiative and the specific opinion that the government should urgently not only carry out an impact assessment of the impact of the new application of the VAT rules, but should also address the negative effects of the new application on patients and users and neutralise the distortion of competition between public and private carers. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to wish all the members of the Committee on Taxation, the members of the Committee on Budgets, the Bureau of Presidents and all the other Members and the audience a really warm and pleasant summer in this last debate before the summer break!
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1301	Madam President, I would like I really only have two questions for the Swedish Democrats, who say they want to protect people who live in rural areas and places of use. How is it considered reasonable that a doctor earns 80 000 kroner a week, while a nurse has 24 000 – 25 000 kroner a month? Do the Swedish Democrats think it is a reasonable order that permanent employees should have a much worse and more competitive situation than one-man entrepreneurs and relay doctors? Madam President, I would like Do the Swedish Democrats finally think it is good for the countryside that you as a patient can meet a variety of doctors? Or would it perhaps be better to ensure that this money does not go to Danderyd but remains where we know it is needed and could be used to improve the health care and wages of those who live there?
i-Tw8sdccyijqK7u9Hcp9FU9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ida Gabrielsson, for the question. Whether or not it is reasonable with the salaries and allowances that are passed on to the relay doctors can always be discussed. There is, as it stands today, a market situation in which we have a shortage of doctors, and just as I said in the speaker's chair, there are too few trained doctors. This calls for their skills to the extent that they are prepared to pay these sums for them. Of course, I do not think this is reasonable, but I think we need to ensure that there are more doctors. On the question of whether it would in any way be worse to be employed, it is the doctor himself who makes the assessment whether he or she wants to work as a self-employed person or be employed. After all, you have completely different benefits as an employee of an employer than you have as a self-employed worker, a lot of social benefits and the like. That assessment is therefore given to everyone. We also think, of course, that the patients have the right to meet the same staff to the extent possible. Of course, a relationship is created between patients and caregivers, so I see it as very reasonable. However, I understand that this is an ideological issue for the Left Party, and I am not surprised that it thinks that private care should be abolished at all.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1308	Madam President, I would like Eric Westroth says he agrees with me that 80 000 kroner a week can be a little too much money and that, as a rural resident, you have the right to see the same doctor on medical visits. Eric Westroth also says that we agree that this needs to change. At the same time, Eric Westroth and the Swedish Democrats today support a proposal that goes in exactly the opposite direction instead of being involved in changing the 3:12 rules that have made this possible. I do not think that a change and a levelling out of the misleading competitive situation in which conditions such as relay staff are much better than those of permanent staff would lead to high-skilled doctors deciding to become cleaning women instead. There will certainly be a need for more doctors, but then we need to keep the money in welfare and not do as the Swedish Democrats along with the other parties who instead pay out the money to Danderyd and other areas in Greater Stockholm where people are already doing quite well. Would the Swedish Democrats like to call it ideology – please! I call it common sense.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1312	Madam President, I would like I say again that it is the market that determines the price. We need to train more doctors. I think we can agree on that. The Medical Association has been incredibly effective in keeping the number of training places down to create demand for services and ensure that the market has been open to them. It is quite simply there that politicians have historically been weak and have not reformed education to ensure that more doctors are trained. Again: On the day that there will be more doctors and if you have better conditions as an employee, the relay doctor may not get any jobs, because it has been hired another. Then perhaps the relay doctor will become unemployed, perhaps without the possibility of compensation from various unemployment funds because they have worked as self-employed people instead. That's how it is to be a self-employed person. It does not have the same access to the social security system that normally exists for ordinary employees.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1315	Madam President, I would like Politics never ceases to fascinate. Here we have a matter today that this House has barely contributed to the fact that it has ended up in this House. Certainly it is a political decision in the misappropriation of the Court of Justice of the European Union which, through legislative authorities in Sweden, has been put on our table as a political decision, and we must do what we can to mitigate the negative consequences. Very well! A functioning care system is a prerequisite for us to be able to live, live and work throughout Sweden. I'm sure we'll agree on that. Similarly, we can agree that there are many obstacles along the way to obtaining equal care throughout the country. Access to health professionals is such a barrier. The lack of competence and accessibility are two issues that have been relevant for a long time. Thus, in a few weeks' time, another obstacle will be added, namely the healthcare VAT. For many, it may be perceived as a marginal issue, but it will be of great importance. The VAT increase due on 1 July will have major consequences. VAT of 25% will affect private health care providers, and it will build inequalities into the system because care provided by regions and municipalities is not affected because, as we know, they are reimbursed for their direct VAT costs. In the short term, this poses major economic problems for several of the private actors in Swedish health care. This applies not only to temporary agency workers, but also to specialist consultants in, for example, dental care, psychologists and in various forms of care activities, as well as subcontractors in the care chain. Remember that almost half of all health centres in Sweden today are run privately! In the longer term, this will undoubtedly mean increased costs for municipalities and regions of the healthcare and care that they are buying today – if the service even remains able to buy. Only today we have received signals from the healthcare companies that we are at risk of seeing several experienced doctors who, in the past, have chosen to continue working on their own if their work suddenly becomes more complicated and less profitable. And now I hear how some people think they can work for hours or work part-time in the public sector. But if it were that simple, it would be a fact today, but it is not. With this change, we risk breaking well-functioning healthcare chains in Sweden. Can we afford that? I mean, we need more caregivers, not less. Madam President, I would like The Centre Party sees an obvious danger that the increase in VAT will affect rural health care in relative terms much harder. In rural areas, private health care providers are already working hard to find staff. Often you have to turn, at least periodically, to companies that hire staff. For many health care providers or public employers, trying to hire someone at a substitute office or for hours in a smaller location is impossible. There is simply no access to those staff. The countryside stands out here because in a larger city there is often a larger pool of skills to recruit from. And yes, I am concerned about this. I am not concerned about the companies that hire doctors, but about their patients. Madam President, I would like I wish there was a quick solution. But the question is complicated. That is the conclusion we must draw from the clearly uncertain legal situation. We have a separate Tax Law Board that has taken three decisions to clarify the Swedish Tax Agency's interpretation. These advance rulings have been appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court. The legal situation simply cannot be considered clear. The question is further complicated by the fact that our neighbouring country Finland has interpreted the EU acquis that Swedish authorities refer to diametrically differently. As a general rule, VAT exemptions continue to apply. What can be done? Yes, that's what we expect the government now to look at for real. It is a question of changing VAT legislation in the long term to resolving the issue in another way, perhaps through the annual budgetary procedure. The best thing would have been if the Swedish Tax Agency had postponed the introduction, which many actors have been nagging about and asking for – but it has been blank no. For us in the Center Party, the exact solution is not important, but the important thing is that we continue to have a system that does not distinguish between private and public actors and that we can ensure a level playing field for healthcare throughout the country. One of the most important incentives that we in the Center Party see is the agreement that the government has reached with the Center Party and the Liberals. It is clear that there should be competition neutrality between public and independent healthcare providers in terms of economic conditions. The question at issue clearly shows that this is not the case as of 1 July. I thank you for the call from the Moderates, and I can reassure them that the Center Party can be regarded as Sweden's largest health care party. The Center Party participates in 19 of 21 regions. This ensures that we will be very careful and vigilant in ensuring that that part of the January agreement is actually followed up. Private and public operators must be treated equally, and then the VAT issue must be taken very seriously. In order to ensure a well-functioning healthcare system throughout the country, VAT on agency workers needs to be quickly resolved. I wish all employees a pleasant summer.
i-a289ac8a782a26a8-1330	Madam President, I would like Of course, we do not usually discuss healthcare in the debates of the Committee on Taxation, but I think it is important to put the issue of VAT on agency staff in the context of care. When the Swedish healthcare system comes to people, it is fantastic. The results are good, and health care is able to cope with increasingly severe diseases. But it is a big problem that not everyone is allowed to take part in the care. Over 80 000 Swedes have been waiting illegally for a long time for surgery or specialist care. The waiting times in the country's emergency departments, as well as waiting times to see specialist doctors, are long. Behind each number is a single person who is affected. It's probably so bad in itself. However, the costs to society in terms of sick leave and skills shortages are also enormous. The policy pursued during the last parliamentary term did not improve the situation in healthcare – quite the contrary. During the previous term of office, the Social Democrats seemed to focus mainly on how healthcare can be restricted in various ways. They have tried to stop private-run emergency hospitals, to stop private-run health centres and to shut down well-functioning care activities just because they have not been run in public. Worse access to healthcare is the common thread of the policy pursued by the Social Democrats. Poorer accessibility is also the consequence of the fact that the hiring of staff in the care will now be subject to VAT. It will be another blow to a healthcare system that already has major accessibility problems. The consequences for public health care are not felt because municipalities and regions are compensated by the state. For all other players, who are only compensated by a flat rate which can be paid out by the regions, the consequences can be very great. This distortion of competition between operators, depending on whether they operate in the public or private sector, could lead to the disappearance of a wide range of operators and to less accessibility, not least in rural areas. Madam President, I would like A major problem in healthcare, which does not become easier to deal with when agency workers are subject to VAT, is the lack of competent staff. In the coming years, hundreds of thousands of people need to be employed in welfare only to enable us to maintain the current level. It cannot be described as anything but a huge challenge. Part of the solution to this problem is to get older people who can and want to work for another year or two to do so. For example, older doctors who want to work for a few years as consultants can. These people are a resource for which we in this House should be grateful and make it easier. Madam President, I would like Immediately after the formation of the government in January, I asked the Minister for Finance what measures the government was going to take in relation to the VAT collection of care that was to come. The answer was that the government did not intend to do anything. It has also been the recurring answer to all questions about this during the spring, not least when Magdalena Andersson visited the Tax Committee. The government wasn't going to act. During the spring I have had lots of contacts with individual doctors, with industry organisations and with healthcare companies, large and small, generalists and specialists. Everyone has had the same message: Rented-in skills in healthcare are necessary to meet the mission of care, and VAT on this would hit all these solutions hard. Someone has to do something. Since the government has not wanted to do anything, it has become necessary to develop this committee initiative, which now hopefully becomes an announcement. The Christian Democrats took the initiative in this, and thankfully everyone, except the Left Party, listened to it. It is particularly gratifying that the Social Democrats support this. Compared to what the Social Democratic Government said last winter, it is a great success that there is now an announcement, not for me and not for the healthcare companies but for all patients at risk. Now the government has to address this issue. Madam President, I would like For me, there is no doubt that the tax administration's application of VAT to hired personnel has consequences for health care. Nor is there any doubt about it when the health care representative describes the situation. If I were to wish, it would be best for the Tax Agency to delay the application, at least as long as the application is subject to judicial review in different instances. However, since there is currently no indication that this will happen, the government must act. If this announcement is made without rapid action, there will be consequences. Maintaining skills will be more difficult, especially in sparsely populated areas where it is already difficult to recruit staff. That is why many of us now expect the government to act quickly. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
