i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-3	Madam President, I would like The question of waste and how it affects us humans and nature is becoming more and more topical. Not least, it is evident in our seas and along our shores or when we see the large landfill sites around our earth. Perhaps less widely known is the illegal activity that occurs in the traces of waste. Illegal waste exports affect the environment and human health as the host countries often lack the capacity to manage waste safely. The main driving force behind illegal shipments of waste is high profits combined with low detection risk. There are links to other serious crime, such as fraud, tax offences, theft, money laundering and drug and trafficking in human beings. It is important that shipments of waste are closely monitored and controlled so that waste is not dumped in countries where waste legislation or control is inadequate. Illegal shipments of waste to developing countries are a major problem, and compliance with the regulations is therefore urgent. However, it has proved difficult to apply the current penal provisions in Sweden. They should therefore be amended so that they can be applied more effectively and effectively, and that is what the government is now proposing. Cross-border shipments of waste can take place through the export of waste to countries outside the EU but also through shipments of waste within the EU and through the import of waste into the EU. The EU Waste Transport Regulation limits and regulates cross-border shipments of waste in order to ensure a high level of protection of the environment and human health. Member States shall in turn lay down rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the Regulation. The penalties provided for shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. The current proposed amendments to the penal provisions mainly concern the export of waste from one EU country to non-EU countries. Madam President, I would like A unanimous Committee on the Environment and Agriculture proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal for amendments to the Environmental Code's penal provisions on unauthorised shipments of waste. The liability for the illegal shipment of waste shall include those who organise or carry out a shipment of waste intended to go to a non-EU country in breach of the EU Waste Shipment Regulation. The proposal means that the offence is considered to have been completed at an earlier stage than under the current rules. Furthermore, penalties may also be imposed when a shipment has been notified or approved if the notification or authorisation is based on incorrect information. A specific criminal classification is introduced for serious cases of unauthorised shipments of waste. It shall not be held liable in small cases or if the organiser of the transport has voluntarily taken an action leading to the failure of the transport operation. As regards the concept of voluntaryity in this respect, the committee considers that a withdrawal after a supervisory authority has initiated a verification should not be considered voluntary. Penalty for aggravating environmental control is extended to include provisions in the Waste Transport Regulation. It introduces the possibility to retain and dispose of waste if necessary to ensure compliance with an injunction or prohibition related to the Waste Transport Regulation. In addition, waste which has been the subject of a criminal offence shall be capable of being confiscated.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-13	Madam President, I would like Sweden has for a long time been making major efforts internationally for peace and security through the participation of women and men, mainly from the Swedish Armed Forces but also from the police and other authorities, in international efforts decided by the UN Security Council. The number of people per one hundred thousand inhabitants in the country who participated and participate in these efforts probably makes Sweden the absolute largest contributor to these security operations worldwide. Over time, these efforts have become increasingly complex, increasingly dangerous to implement and increasingly technologically advanced. Today we do not have as many in active service in the world as we had some years ago. Many in Sweden believe and expect that we still have the same large number, but as the assignments have become more complex and dangerous, the number has decreased. However, we continue to make important efforts. Madam President, I would like I would particularly like to thank the women and men and their relatives involved in these efforts. It is not only the one who is in place out there in the dangerous environment who participates, but also the relatives, the whole family and the whole family. Many thanks to all of you! A couple of years ago, together with other members of the Foreign and Defence Committee, I visited Mali and the ongoing Swedish operation there, the effort that Parliament is debating today and will decide to extend. Something that was striking in the meeting with the Swedish staff and that proved clearly was the professionalism, the comradeship and the warmth that exists among the Swedish staff. Then I do not think that it was 52 degrees in the desert in the shade, if one had been able to find someone, but the warmth that prevails between the Swedish staff and which is the basis both for their cooperation and for their meetings with the people out there, which they are set to protect and help. It was obvious when we were foot patrolling a small village in the desert that the Swedish contribution and the Swedish staff were both appreciated and respected by the people we met, who welcomed us when we came by. We also visited the capital Bamako on this occasion, as well as being out in Timbuktu. In Bamako, we met both the political leadership and leading officials in the administration to discuss the peace agreement that is slowly – unfortunately too slowly – being implemented and which is also the basis for the Swedish presence. What we are there to protect and secure is the introduction and application of the peace agreement that exists. It's a UN-led operation. In recent years it has not been so common for various reasons that we have participated in UN-led operations, but this effort and in particular the Swedish participation has contributed not only to the security of the site but also to the development of the UN system and the UN's efforts in the world. The competence and skills of Swedish personnel have contributed positively and continue to contribute to the development of the UN system and to make the UN better at implementing this type of effort. The effort for the Swedish part in this form will, with the extension, come to an end. It will be replaced by some other Swedish operation in Mali, and the government will come back with proposals to Parliament this autumn. With this, I would like to endorse the proposal by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to approve the Government's proposal for continued Swedish participation in the operation in Mali.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-21	Madam President, I would like In this matter, it is proposed that the Riksdag allow the Government to make available a Swedish armed force consisting of a maximum of 470 persons for participation in the UN stabilisation operation in Mali. The prerequisite is that there is a valid mandate for the force, as decided by the UN Security Council. Sweden has been involved in international engagement in Mali since 2013. The commitment has changed and grown over time, but it will be phased out from December this year in the form we see now. The Government estimates that, under normal circumstances, the operation will amount to approximately 320 people on site until the end of November. Then there will be a gradual reduction. The authorisation includes the possibility of temporarily reinforcing the operation. As Kenneth G. Forslund said earlier, the government has promised to return with a possible new troop contribution based in Gao. We in the committee assume that in this context the government will carry out an analysis of the security situation in the region, because the situation in Mali is still very difficult. I think there is reason to note here in Parliament that both the effort and the decommissioning of the Camp Nobel commitment are complex. The work within the unit we have is risky and places great demands on the staff. Last week some of us were reminded of the seriousness of the international efforts we are deciding on. In connection with veteran day, the Commander-in-Chief awarded the Swedish Armed Forces Medal of Merit to important employees. Among others Sergeant Robin Rönnholm from Storuman, Deputy Corporal Erik Röckner from Arvidsjaur, Sergeant Oliver Sjögren from Bålsta, Major Tobias Lindblom from Boden, Lieutenant Anders Pettersson from Boden and Sergeant PerPer-Olof Eriksson from Boden received the silver medal with a sword. You get this medal if you have performed your assignments in an extraordinary manner in combat or warlike conditions. Those I have mentioned now received their motivations for their excellent leadership and courage and other things, i.e. extraordinary work in connection with a terrorist attack on the UN sector headquarters in Timbuktu, Mali, on 14 April 2017. It was a very serious and difficult situation, in which six Swedish outcasts acted meritoriously. Lieutenant Gabriel Donati from Stockholm was also awarded the Medal of Merit on Wednesday because he had with great personal courage rescued a colleague during the ongoing shell shooting at the International Campus in Mogadishu, Somalia, in January 2016. First Sergeant Jonathan Renman of Lycksele was honored to have great personal courage and danger for his own life in the icy water tried to save lives at the salvage car accident in Alån in Boden in March 2017. A protected person was also given the Medal of Merit for his efforts under difficult conditions. I mention these people to emphasise that our international efforts and activities are ultimately based on employees who, at the risk of their own comfort and ultimately their lives, carry out what we here in Parliament talk about and think is essential. They, like our veterans, are worthy of respect, but also of all the support that can be given during and after completed missions in various efforts. There's more to do here. We know that in the composite committee, we know that in the Committee on Defence, and I think many others know that too. The composite committee welcomes the Swedish Armed Forces' action to limit the effects of deficiencies detected in medical evacuation for the Swedish force in Mali. It is important if something happens that you can quickly get under the right health care and that the models we have to manage this well work. Some shortcomings were noted here some time ago. This has been corrected by the Swedish Armed Forces, and we emphasise that we think it is a good thing. Madam President, I would like International efforts are important, but they are also very demanding, in several respects. The direct cost of the operation in Mali is significant. But it, like other actions, also uses limited human resources. It is therefore important to balance efforts and results on a regular basis, as has been reiterated in the committee's dialogues with the government. My impression is that there is agreement on this, although evaluations in these contexts are difficult to make. I believe that in the future, when we receive more and more conscripts and hopefully strengthen Swedish defence forces in general, at least during a transitional period, we must give priority to national defence. The kind of highly skilled staff that we are used to sending out is not enough for everything during a transitional period, and we will have to make difficult priorities. Overall, however, it is the view of the Moderates that the government proposal on this issue, with regard to the operation in Mali and the extension, can be accepted.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-32	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament makes decisions when we send armed troops abroad. Over the years, Swedish men and women have served Sweden with life as a contribution. They have chosen to break up from comforts and security to fight around the world for peace and freedom, far away from their loved ones. Over the years, they have drawn to Sinai's scorched desert and to the deep jungle of Congo. They have fought among the mountains of Lebanon and in the divided landscapes of Cyprus. Their memory lives on in Bosnia and Kosovo, Chad and Somalia, Afghanistan, Iraq and Mali, and in many other places. They have all sacrificed part of themselves for their country and for what they believed in. Some have returned wounded in both body and soul, and some have not returned home alive. For many years, as in many other parts of the world, they were treated rigidly by our society without any particular appreciation or recognition. But they never went off to win prizes or benefits, but to serve their country, their people and peace. It honors them more than anything. Today, when we debate and decide on an extension of the Malian operation, it is therefore appropriate to remember all those who have made these sacrifices, especially those who have paid the ultimate price for their courage. We should honor them for their sacrifice to our country. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of Sweden's veterans, both international and national, and their relatives. Madam President, I would like Last week, we celebrated veteran's day. Those of us who had the privilege of attending the Swedish Armed Forces Director General's seminar could, among other things, take part in a survey that was carried out a few years ago – 2015. This had asked veterans whether they felt that foreign service was justified and recognised by politicians. The figures were extremely disappointing. As many as 75 percent felt that the statement was not true at all or was quite untrue. Now it is a few years since this study was carried out, and some have happened. Among other things, we have introduced a new general flag day on 29 May in order to honour and pay attention to Swedish personnel who died in, participated or participated in national and international military or civilian operations. Around the country in various municipalities, veteran day is celebrated, not just here in Stockholm. I myself have exercised in my municipality of Kristianstad, which is an old military town, to introduce a municipal celebration of veteran day. I would be very disappointed if one did not face such a thing. At least that would not improve the figures on support for politicians when the next survey is carried out. It is, of course, incredibly important that we, who decide on these efforts, also show support and give our attention to all possible plans to those who carry out these efforts. Madam President, I would like With regard to today's decision to extend the operation in Mali until 30 June next year, we Swedish democrats are behind this. There is a clear mandate in international law for the operation, and the operation takes place under the auspices of the United Nations. We Swedish democrats see the UN as the primary body for cooperation in dealing with conflicts and safeguarding peace and security. A fundamental prerequisite for international action shall be a clear mandate from the UN Security Council. The Swedish contribution of strength has made a significant contribution, and we can be proud of it. Although the operation in its current form will start to be phased out from 1 December, we can probably assume that there will be a demand for continued Swedish participation in Mali. In its proposal, the Government states that it intends to return to Parliament on this matter. If Sweden is to continue its efforts, we believe that it is important for the government to press on to the UN when it comes to, for example, the medical evacuation capability. Although we have now been in Mali for several years and at the start of the operation expressed strong criticism of the deficiencies in Medevac, we can still note that deficiencies remain in some parts, which affects the Swedish unit's operating area. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would also like to commend the Government for listening to the views of the opposition. During the period of the Malian operation, I think that the objective of Swedish participation has been better clarified, and measurable national targets have been set. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of the proposal in the committee's report.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. In December 2014, the first personnel from the Swedish intelligence unit came to Mali and the future Camp Nobel outside Timbuktu. It is almost five years ago, and we have followed the work on the efforts and developments of these years. During these early summer days, personnel in ongoing operations leave the Mali 09 area and come home to Sweden, and members of Mali 10 take place to gradually take over responsibility. The other day it was reported that two grenades went down outside the UN International Camp. These grenades did not strike near buildings or personnel. But these are examples of what everyday life looks like during ongoing efforts where we from the Swedish side serve and take great responsibility. Several Swedes have during these four and a half years been in place and are still there. It is a large part of the Swedish Armed Forces, and many skilled and specialized soldiers, men and women, have served and served on our behalf on behalf of the Riksdag. I would like to extend warm thanks to them and to those who are now entering Mali 10 to fulfil this commitment. Our strength contribution with intelligence, warning radar and support in various forms is very important. It is also important at a time when the security policy situation in our neighbourhood and in the outside world, with concerns in Africa, Mali and the surrounding areas, is showing the global trend. We need to be in place and at the same time develop our national capabilities and take responsibility at home. The task of this mission is to promote dialogue and reconciliation, to reduce tensions between different groups of people, to protect civilians, to stabilise population centres, to counter asymmetric attacks against civilians and against UN personnel. It is also a question of promoting respect for human rights and of supporting the authorities in Mali in creating security for humanitarian transport. As of December, the current mission will change, and there will be a decommissioning of Camp Nobel. Then it remains to be seen how the government chooses to continue to prioritise, dimension and formulate proposals for future work. In parallel, it is important to see how we should handle international efforts both in the short and long term. Our responsibility internationally to participate militarily and civilly in operations contributes to peace, development, democracy and human rights. Although the security situation in these areas can change over time, our response is important and important. In total, the military personnel in the entire Minus Main movement consists of 11,632 people present in Mali. This was in January. There are also 1,767 police officers and 1,400 other employees on site in various operations. This indicates that we are in a context where we contribute in many ways. The challenges have been addressed, both in terms of medical evacuation and in terms of our soldiers' ability to operate in the dark. This lack of ability is limiting. We need to take this with us in the face of other efforts. But we also need to follow the remaining months during the current effort. The Center Party believes that it is important that we can strengthen our national capabilities based on the current security situation in our neighbourhood, but that it should not change or reduce the opportunities in the longer term to also take responsibility in a broader international perspective. These things should not be set against each other. There are also positive effects on national capacity development to be present in international efforts. It is important that the principle is that it is a UN mandate. But it is not necessary that it is the UN that has the leadership. Others may also accept this responsibility. It is extremely important that we are present and that we are also promoting stability in an international perspective. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the proposal in the report by the composite committee and thank you for the excellent work that has been done during these months in the composite committee. I also wish all the best for the continuation of the mission in Mali.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-55	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating and deciding on Sweden's operation in Mali, where Sweden participates as part of the UN stabilisation operation. It is, of course, timely for this matter to come at the moment, only one week after those of us on the defence and foreign affairs committees took part in the celebration of veteran's day here in Stockholm. On Veteran Day, Sweden's veterans, i.e. those who have participated in Swedish efforts abroad, are noted. This year special attention was paid to the soldiers who went to Sinai in the early 1970s and to the doctors, nurses and other staff who worked at the Red Cross Hospital in Busan, South Korea, in the early 1950s. Those of us who took part in the celebration of UN Day earlier this autumn also received a clear reminder that many Swedes have risked and lost their lives in the work for peace and development around the world. So today we are discussing Sweden's efforts in Mali. Today, the tenth group of Swedish soldiers has taken over the baton at Camp Nobel in Timbuktu. There are now quite a number of Swedish soldiers who have participated in the operation in Mali. It is of course appropriate to express a great deal of thanks to all the Swedish soldiers who have participated in this effort and to those who are now starting their mission there. Those of you who participate in this mission make great sacrifices, with long b orthovary from family and friends here at home, and participate in a work that involves great risks. Even you relatives who are still at home waiting, certainly often with a great feeling of concern, are worthy of our great gratitude and our support for making everyday life work here at home. Madam President, I would like In the proposal submitted by the government as a background to Sweden's operation in Mali, we get a description of the security situation and developments in the country. It can be read that Mali is one of the world's poorest countries, where for a long time there has been armed conflict, major problems with drug and arms trafficking, kidnappings and terrorism. The security situation in Mali has been commuting back and forth in recent years. There is a peace agreement, but it has also been broken. Conflicts are based, among other things, on major climate changes in the form of reduced rainfall and large droughts that have forced the population to leave their homes and led to increased vulnerability and poverty. Here we see how important it is to see climate change and natural disasters as security policy threats and as a basis for war and conflict and that combating climate change is thus also a way of working towards a more peaceful world. In contrast, we live in one of the world's most peaceful and richest countries. It is therefore self-evident that Sweden will participate in international efforts to promote peace, democracy and development in the world. We do so in different ways, especially with assistance in various forms and by sending expertise into the world to help build democratic societies. But we are also doing so with the military in order to preserve security and protect the civilian population. It is important that we always see the root causes of wars and conflicts and actively participate in working internationally to prevent conflicts from arising. Sweden's various forms of aid work are preventive work to avoid war and suffering for the civilian population. For the Left Party, it is incredibly important that Sweden's military efforts take place under the leadership of the UN and with clear support in international law rather than being led by individual countries or NATO. Respect for international law must always be fundamental. The operation in Mali is based on an invitation from the Malian Government and a large number of UN Security Council decisions and resolutions. This is a prerequisite for us in the Left Party to accept Sweden's military participation. Although we are a great supporter of the UN's work for peace and development, we must also be able to recognise that the UN has shortcomings and shortcomings and needs to be democratised and made more equal. Sweden will have a prominent role in the various parts of the UN's work that provide development and improvement. It is our joint responsibility as a peaceful, democratic and rich country. Finally, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Government's proposal so clearly addresses Sweden's efforts to promote women's participation on the basis of UN Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security and that this has a major focus in our international work. The fact that Sweden has a feminist foreign policy is very important to us in the Left Party, and we will be an international example for gender equality work around the world. It should also be mentioned that Sweden is a major donor to Mali and that we participate with great humanitarian support to the many millions of people who live in very difficult conditions in the country. Sweden will do everything we can to support the work for peace, democracy and development in Mali and neighbouring countries so that the people of Mali can live in freedom and peace and together make democratic decisions about their own country's future. I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-66	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a democracy and a free country where we have the favour of living in security. Such a country also has a responsibility to participate in and contribute to strengthening security and peace and, by extension, also to guarantee freedom for people throughout the world. Sweden has been doing this for a long time, and we should be proud of that. But, Madam President, above all, we must be proud and show respect and gratitude to those people who, in actual fact, and ultimately, with life as an effort, take the step and in action, contribute to peace, security and, by extension, freedom. I would like to say a big thank you to the veterans who are in Sweden now, to the people who are going down to Mali and other efforts around the world and to the people who are in place right now but also to their relatives. Participating in this type of effort is not something you do yourself, but it is something that the whole family and all the relatives around you are involved in. Sweden has not only a responsibility to show respect and gratitude, Madam President, but Sweden also has a responsibility to take care of these people as well as we can. This could be about improving the possibility of medical evacuation. It can also be about a much, much better veteran care once you have come back to Sweden. Madam President, I would like I think it is clear that Sweden should be an active party in the peace efforts that the UN has around us the world. I think it is clear that Sweden should participate in Mali. It is not so complicated to make that decision, but it is a very complicated and difficult situation, and then the people who are in place on Sweden's behalf need the right resources and get the right support to manage the effort as well as possible. Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a country that takes responsibility for peace and security and, by extension, and perhaps ultimately, for the freedom of individuals around the world. I am proud that Sweden has done so in Mali and that in some form we will continue to do so in Mali. I call for the proposal of the composite committee to be approved. I hope that those who listen to this will be reached by how gathered we are in Parliament in our respect and gratitude to those individuals who actually shoulder this responsibility on the ground.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-72	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to warn you that I will extend my speech by two minutes. Today, Madam President, it is with pride that I am standing in Parliament's pulpit. I was going to take the opportunity to tell you a little about why shipping is so important to Sweden, but above all I was going to tell you what initiatives we Social Democrats in government have been involved in taking to advance the positions of Swedish shipping. Finally, I was going to say something a little visionary about community building – the community building that we Social Democrats so dearly love to devote ourselves to. Madam President, I would like About 90 per cent of Sweden's export and import volumes are transported on ships during any part of the process from raw material to finished product. The Social Democraticly led government has taken many initiatives to strengthen Swedish shipping. Let me give you a few examples: First, I would like to mention the overall goal of Sweden becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare nation, which is clearly stated by Prime Minister Löfven. In his government declaration earlier this year, the Prime Minister said that the national plan to invest 700 billion in roads and railways is being pursued and that more and more long-distance freight is to be moved from truck to train and shipping. During the government declaration, it was also announced that infrastructure issues were moved to a separate department, where maritime issues, so to speak, are on the boat. The government has also presented a national freight transport strategy for efficient and sustainable freight transport – the first of its kind. There is now also a maritime strategy to promote maritime industries. In order to achieve the high-level objectives that we have, we cannot be a short-term squander and sit and hold on to the money in favour of tax cuts. On the contrary, we need to promote more and more public investment. What we are investing in infrastructure and shipping today, we will see and future generations will see the benefits of tomorrow and later. Madam President, I would like Sadly, for many years, we could see how the flags of our country accelerated. In the early 2000s, many other European countries introduced tonnage tax, challenging Sweden's competitiveness in shipping. In Sweden, an investigation on tonnage tax was started in 2004 by Göran Persson's government. However, when the government of Persson was replaced by the government of Reinfeldt in 2006, the findings of the investigation were not taken into account and the proposal was rejected. This led to disappointment among both shipowners and industry that the government did not support the shipping industry sufficiently. When the Social Democratic-led government came into place, it was therefore important to take the initiative quickly and ensure that there is a tonnage tax in Sweden as well. On 1 January 2017, Swedish tonnage taxation could finally come into force after the preparatory work of infrastructure ministers Anna Johansson and Tomas Eneroth. The aim was to have the same conditions for shipping as in the rest of Europe and thus to increase the possibility of choosing Sweden as a flag nation. Happily, for a few years now, we have reversed the negative trend from several decades back. We see how more shipping companies are now flying in, and recently we passed 100 Swedish flagged ships. If you also include the Swedish-controlled tonnage, we will enter more than 500 vessels. Nor do you forget that the issue of flagging out is also central from a defence policy perspective. In order for our country to make a living in the event of war, Sweden needs its own ships in a Swedish merchant fleet. In addition, of course, we need to be able to protect our central ports. In addition to the introduction of the tonnage tax, the government launched an eco-bonus during the last parliamentary term to promote the transfer of goods from road to maritime. This was one of the initiatives that was unfortunately attacked by the budget that was put here in Parliament last autumn at the initiative of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, with the support of the Swedish Democrats. But now, as I said, we have a government in place that knows how to take responsibility for both shipping and climate. It turned out a few months ago when the government decided to commission the Swedish Transport Administration to broaden and expand support for research and innovation in the maritime sector. The investment almost doubles the aid, from the current 55 million to 100 million. With the support, the Government wants to promote the competitiveness of the export industry and reduce the environmental and climate impact. Madam President, I would like In May 2018, the Government made a decision on the large national traffic cross-border plan for the planning period 2018 – 2029. Some of the important initiatives for shipping that are worth mentioning are Luleå port and investments for the locks in Trollhättan and the locks in Södertälje and the fairway in Mälardalen. As a Gothenburger, I can of course not help but mention the dredging and fairway deepening in Gothenburg harbour, which means that Scandinavia's largest port can also in the future receive the larger largest boats by direct shipping from all corners of the world. All projects are now rolling at full speed. But, of course, we must also protect our domestic shipping. As I mentioned earlier, shipping accounts for 90% of Sweden's import and export volumes. In contrast, inland transport by sea is only around 4%, while the rest of Europe is around 10%. This means that there will instead be more congestion by rail and road and that these will become more inefficient ways of transporting goods. It is essential that we make greater use of both shipping and rail if we are to be completely free of CO2 emissions in 2045, as we have agreed in this House. In order to promote domestic shipping, a National Coordinator at the Finnish Transport Administration has been established. Pia Berglund, now national coordinator, has recently submitted an action plan with 62 proposals to the government as part of the work on the transfer of goods to rail and maritime transport. The Action Plan includes everything from dialogue with ports and training of government personnel to further investigation of barge traffic rules. The work is done with other authorities and with the industry and is based on the Government's freight transport strategy. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention some additional challenges for shipping that we need to take responsibility for and work on. It is about continuing to be internationally competitive and that laws and regulations are adapted for both economic and social and environmentally sustainable perspectives. In addition, we must face the lack of skills that the industry and trade unions are warning of. According to the transport companies, these are up to 800 seamen. For that, we need a good working environment with fair conditions. It is gratifying to see how the parties in the shipping industry – Swedish Maritime Transport, Seko Seafarers and the Maritime Officers' Association – collaborate closely in Blue Growth. This is a crucial piece of the puzzle for the industry to develop in the future as well. Politics will of course do its part, and I have good hopes that we will continue with more initiatives from the government to strengthen Swedish shipping. I would be happy to come back to this speaker's chair to tell you more about it. Madam President, I would like Real community building requires sustained political leadership regardless of the level at which it takes place. I have told you in my speech that the Social Democrats and the government are taking up the challenge of people's need to transport themselves and our need to import and export goods. We take seriously that all of Sweden will live, and we take the climate challenge seriously. I am proud to belong to a party and be represented by a government that has made clear efforts and has more to deliver. Madam President, I would like In order to convince a little bit more that Sweden's current focus on maritime policy is the right way to go, I would like to take the opportunity to highlight a candidate thesis. It was written by Jakob Andersson and Sebastian Elfström, who studied at the sea captain programme at Chalmers University of Technology in Gothenburg. The title of their thesis is Swedish merchant shipping from a political perspective. I'd like to read a few quotes from the paper. Quotes 1:1 For the first time in many years, Sweden's merchant fleet has increased as more vessels have been registered. Shipowners who have now re-flagged ships to Sweden from Denmark and the Faroe Islands, among others, clearly announced when they left ten years ago that they will not return with the ships until a clear and more long-term maritime policy is in place. Now several shipping companies have re-registered ships in Sweden which may be interpreted as a positive change. ..................................................... A positive development is found when it comes to the development of cooperation between politicians and the maritime sector where maritime issues are discussed more frequently. ..................................................... Finally, it is therefore important to have a clear maritime policy that gives Swedish shipping the right conditions to compete in the global market. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like These lines from external viewers, one may well call them, at the sea captain program at Chalmers makes a maritime-engaged social democrat that I warm in my heart. Finally, I would like to endorse our joint reservation No 5 on inland waterways and coastal shipping by the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party and, in addition, to support the committee's proposal in the report on maritime affairs.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-97	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by saying that, on behalf of the Moderates, I am in favour of reservation 1. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation No 1. Swedish shipping is a lifeblood for Sweden. 90 per cent of all goods coming to or shipped from Sweden do so via Swedish shipping – 90 per cent! If this shipping does not have the right conditions, it cannot operate, and then you can imagine what 90% loss would mean. Madam President, I would like Shipping is on the international market and competes with international companies and other countries. Conditions that benefit Swedish shipping are very important if we want Swedish shipping. In this context, for example, what my colleague Johan Büser mentioned earlier, the tonnage tax, is a very important issue. It would serve to ensure that more ships would be flagged under the Swedish flag. It was an initiative that the alliance government took in 2013 and that the successor government actually merited completion in 2016. We have seen that certain steps have been taken. For a while we were down in 85 Swedish flagged ships in the fleet, and by the turn of the year, I think, we were up to 100. This is a modest development, given that only a few years ago we had 200 Swedish-flagged ships. But now we're up to 100 and it's moving in the right direction, which is very positive. So all credit for this! The tonnage tax introduced in 2016 and initiated by the Alliance Government in 2013 obviously needs to be reviewed. Swedish shipping is constantly changing, and then we have to be on our toes and change and adapt the legislation that we have adopted in order for it to benefit Swedish shipping in the best way. Here, I and the Moderates would like to see a review of the legislation we adopted – we usually call the tonnage tax 2.0 – so that more ships can be subject to the tonnage tax than today. There are rules that say that you have to have a certain part of your business abroad. This means that some Swedish shipping companies cannot compete on the Swedish market, so it is unfortunately foreign shipping companies instead. This is an issue that we will have to deal with, and I hope that we will do so in due course, although I am sorry to say that the government is not quite on that path. Madam President, I would like We Moderates have reservations in this report. They concern, among other things, facilitating Swedish shipping to receive maritime support and that one should be able to flag in their ships. There are many shipping companies who testify that doing so has been a matter of administrative concern. We Moderates have said that we want a way in so you don't have to talk to any number of different parts of the authority. We think that is the right solution. The report states that it has been investigated and reported to the government in autumn 2016, and that is true. So, after almost three years, we have seen nothing about implementing just one way in. The same applies to advance rulings on maritime aid. Maritime aid is something that Swedish shipping needs. Many other countries also have maritime subsidies. If we remove this, we will put the competition for Swedish shipping against other countries at a disadvantage. Therefore, it is important if you are to register a ship that you can get advance rulings from the Swedish State if you can get maritime support. In fact, this has also been investigated. The Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency for Maritime Aid have had this assignment and reported the results to the Government in October 2016 – the time runs! The matter will then be prepared at the Government Office. This is essential in order to be able to operate shipping. The delegation that conducted the investigation said: The delegation notes that the right to maritime aid is absolutely crucial for a shipping company to choose a specific country's ship register. The delegation underlines that the industry has requested the possibility of advance rulings giving the go-ahead for the actual granting of aid. We have to deal with this. We cannot continue to prepare this after almost three years. Madam President, I would like What is perhaps most difficult for Swedish shipping at the moment are the costs. Given that it is an internationally highly competitive market, all charges imposed on this industry are extremely damaging. In Sweden we have fairway fees and pilotage fees. These are fees paid to operate Swedish waters and Swedish ports. These fees, Madam President, have been raised for several years in a row. Why? Well, fairway fees and pilotage fees are the only source of income for the Swedish Maritime Administration, which, incidentally, does a very good job but has too little money. The Swedish Maritime Administration is one of three businesses and will thus finance its own operations. This is done by increasing the fairway fees and pilotage fees, and these are beginning to reach a level that is disadvantageous to Swedish shipping. We Moderates believe that the organisation and form of operations of the Swedish Maritime Administration should be reviewed. However, Minister Eneroth and the government have opposed this. The Swedish National Audit Office has also stated that they believe that there should be an analysis, but the government has said that they do not agree with the Swedish National Audit Office. We in the Moderates see how the Swedish Maritime Administration is struggling with a bleeding economy. Future investments, such as in icebreakers, risk not getting rid of because you have such a bad economy at work. Something must be done here. But, unfortunately, from the answers I receive from the government, you do not seem to want to do anything, but you think it is a good thing as it is. We heard the previous speaker beating his chest about how good Swedish shipping is. I am happy to say that Swedish shipping is good, but it is we as Members of Parliament, the state, who must ensure that Swedish shipping benefits and has the opportunity to compete on equal terms. Madam President, I would like Swedish shipping requires that the state is involved, is in the first line and provides the best conditions. Good initiatives have been taken by the government. I've mentioned the Tonnage Tax. The establishment of a national coordinator to promote waterways is a very good thing. Now just don't let this stop at some sort of coordination. The state, the government, must be willing to initiate new legislation if necessary. It is not acceptable to keep us waiting for almost three years for things demanded by Swedish shipping. It does not benefit Swedish shipping. This does not benefit Sweden.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-113	Madam President, I would like I am particularly pleased to hear Mr Hansson from the Moderates say that the state must take a great deal of responsibility. That is something that we Social Democrats are always passionate about: seeing more of public investment. We will take that responsibility and make sure that we invest in shipping and in the entire infrastructure at all. For quite a few years now, it has been under-financing the railways. We've seen how it's been flagged out in shipping. Now is the time to invest. We are making the biggest investments in infrastructure in modern times. This is also the moment when it is happening in shipping. As I mentioned in my speech, one cannot be a goose that sits on the coin and lowers the tax. It's short-term. In the long term, we need to invest, both in order for future generations to benefit from the infrastructure and in order for us to have an impact on the environmental objectives we have agreed on. I mentioned, for example, that we have doubled the research, Anders Hansson. We have appointed a national coordinator, Pia Berglund, who has the task of increasing domestic shipping. We invest and muddle in ports, locks and a lot of other things. In addition, we also see an increased interest in Swedish shipping after decades of negative trend. For decades, we have seen flagging. Now the flag is again increasing. It's a success. The government of Persson began to investigate tonnage taxation almost 15 years ago, but Reinfeldt threw the investigation into the trash can. It is we who have introduced tonnage taxation. It is we who have created the conditions for the Swedish flagging up, because we can be a spearhead of international research and because we can also continue to strengthen Swedish shipping, which is so important to people through both jobs, growth and our national supply of goods. What do you think of it in the Moderates, Anders Hansson?
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-118	Madam President, I would like The history description, Johan Büser, is a bit vague. After all, it was the Alliance Government that initiated tonnage taxation. That Fredrik Reinfeldt would have put it aside is wrong. In 2013, we took that particular initiative, which was then completed very well by the government in 2016, which seems to be the year of the day. It was important that we got it in place. We fully agreed on that. It is gratifying that, as I also mentioned, we have increased from 85 to 100 flagged vessels. We went from 200 down to 85, and now we've gone up to 100. It's really positive. What I can think about is whether we could have even more if we had had a slightly more energetic government, because of what I said in my speech that we have not had a better administration for ship registration and maritime aid. We have not received the advance ruling that everyone seems to agree on is very important for us to flag into Sweden. You need it to know, as a shipping company, what the premises are. This is still gnawing with the government since October 2016. I think that investing in infrastructure is great. It bodes well for the future to want to do so. Whether the ports have been credited this I leave unsaid. Of course, infrastructure is important, but it is also important that we take action and that it is not just words. You set up a coordinator, and that's great. But if the coordinator comes up with legislation, will we see a repetition of the fact that it takes three years before anything happens? Then it must be very worrying to be a coordinator. We take a positive view of infrastructure investments – absolutely! They are good for Swedish shipping.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-123	Madam President, I would like It was not that in my speech I simply praised and said that everything was gold and green forests. Swedish shipping definitely has major challenges in the future. I chose to highlight what has received great media attention, such as the lack of skills. We will have to work really hard to keep up with international competition. Right now, we're doing pretty good. I note that unemployment has fallen. In my city we export, much via shipping, Volvo cars as never before. Much is therefore going well, but we must be even better to keep up with the competition in the future. I also note that we need to ensure that working conditions are good in maritime transport in order to make it attractive. The fact that we have decent collective agreements and that unions and industry take responsibility for this is also a challenge that I see. Of course, some legislation and fees may need to be reviewed. There we are all ears, and if so, we can take this discussion together to see what is most appropriate. What I still think is so positive now, which also these students at the sea captain programme at Chalmers emphasize in their thesis, is that something has started to happen in recent years. More politicians are talking about shipping, we are beginning to make sure that our climate goals are realised and we are doing a lot of public investment. We are increasing flagging, and we are also making the biggest infrastructure investments in modern times. I find that very pleasing. I was very happy when I heard Anders Hansson mention the importance of the government taking responsibility so that we get more of public investment. I hope that we – in order to end this shift in line, because I think we should do this in this House – can find more things where we can agree to strengthen Swedish shipping, because it is a national interest. It is important for Swedish exports and imports, to achieve our climate goals and to ensure that people have a job to go to.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-127	Madam President, I would like I have no doubt about Johan Büser's commitment to these issues. I am pleased that there are more people who are passionate about maritime issues than I am. I'm really happy about that. Nevertheless, I would like to address my great concern, Johan Büser, and that is the Swedish Maritime Administration's economy. Here, I think the government acts a little recklessly when it just says: you are going to have to get by. The Swedish Maritime Administration has a budget where 70 per cent are financed by fees. That's where you have to take the money when you don't have the money. Today, the work has a solidity of 8%. It has also been said that you need to buy in three new icebreakers for 1 billion each. It is not possible with 8% solidity. The Swedish Maritime Administration must then increase fairway fees and pilotage fees. Fairway fees were increased in 2017 and 2018 by 8 and 9 per cent respectively. This year they have been said to be raised by only 2%. Lottery fees were increased by 5 percent in 2017 and 5 percent in 2018, and in 2019 they are planned to increase by 5 percent. This is not sustainable in the long run. These are charges that directly affect Swedish shipping. What they say is: It will be more expensive for you to travel to Sweden. Finally, there comes a line where you say, Is it worth it? Is it economically viable to do this? Maybe I'll take the estate to Denmark and then put it on the road instead, or whatever I choose to do. That is the development I do not want to see. Therefore, I flag very carefully for Johan Büser's commitment to be placed at the Swedish Maritime Administration. I think there's a key in the whole thing. The Swedish Maritime Administration's finances are bleeding. Let's make it work together. It is a work that is important and does a great job, but it has financial problems. We must take this seriously together.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-132	Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats have many reservations in this report and we all support it. For time winning, however, I only agree to reservation 3. Shipping is something that is close to my heart – as Gothenburgers and Hisingsbo it is almost so that you have salt spatter in the veins. I would like to begin by saying that I am very pleased that we have received an announcement, that is to say that a majority of committees is in favour of the government prioritising the work of promoting waterways and facilitating barge traffic. It is high time that the government was given this task. In 2014, Sweden had the opportunity to set its own rules for our inland waterways, from Gothenburg up to Vänern and from Mälaren to Södertälje. But nothing has happened, and there are no more vessels operating on inland waterways. It will be very interesting to follow this announcement. Hopefully it will give Pia Berglund, who is employed by Trafikverket as coordinator to promote traffic, a little more tools so that she can come up with good suggestions and get the traffic started. We have the opportunity of the world to create its own rules outside the IMO regulations that provide new delivery opportunities with barge traffic, including in city environments. I have personally been in contact with some entrepreneurs who would like to use waterways to transport recycling materials, for example, instead of driving lots of trucks inside the inner city of Stockholm. Trays are also ideal for removing snow masses or building materials. You can equate a barge with a truck on water, but it has much higher capacity. I have also been in contact with representatives of barge traffic, and they are more than happy to increase inland waterway traffic. However, the regulatory framework and costs stand in the way. Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats want you to look at the Swedish Maritime Administration's costume and organisation. Today, the Swedish Maritime Administration is a business that has a return requirement. The Swedish Democrats do not think it is reasonable that the Swedish Maritime Administration is a business. Instead, it should go towards a grant-financed work, like the Finnish Transport Administration. The Swedish Maritime Administration has no easy task in terms of balancing the economy. The new charging model developed by the Swedish Maritime Administration is hitting some shipowners very hard in the form of huge increases in fees, which is deeply unfortunate if you want more sea traffic. The problem is that if fewer ships choose to operate in Sweden, the Swedish Maritime Administration is forced to increase its costs further, which creates a negative spiral. As one shipowner put it, the last ship takes the full cost. Madam President, I would like We have certainly had a positive development, and I myself was involved in the celebration of the 100th Swedish flagged-in ship. But we cannot sit still in the boat and believe that this is taking care of itself. We should not expect that ships will always be on our coasts with imports or pick up exports. It is decided that the Fehmarn Belt tunnel will be built, opening up for more train traffic. We also know that China wants to build a train connection – the silk line – which can connect Asia with Europe in a completely different way from today. The clever can then quickly think that America, South America, Africa and Australia cannot bring their goods here without ships. But that's a bit what Anders Hansson was into: You don't have to drive the ships all the way to Sweden. You can drop the goods in Germany or Denmark and transport it by train or truck to Sweden. This is a risk we will have to take if it is too expensive for shipping to operate in Sweden. It is therefore important that we create relief for shipping, Madam President. A first step would be to provide additional funding to the Swedish Maritime Administration to remove, for example, costs of ice mining and fairway fees. In a second stage, the possibility of funding the entire Swedish Maritime Administration's activities should be explored, and the possibility of removing other cost-driven activities from the Swedish Maritime Administration should be reviewed. Digitalization can make pilotage more efficient, among other things. Today a pilot goes out and meets the ships to safely bring them to port, but what if the pilot could have been used via a control centre? The pilot would then be able to drive the ships safely via computers and cameras, instead of running out and squirting and climbing the ships to manually bring them into port. The work of pilots would thus be much more similar to that of air traffic controllers, and more ships could be helped to navigate if needed. Madam President, I would like We should not focus solely on ships and water, but also on land infrastructure. For maritime transport to function, a functioning land infrastructure is needed, and this applies not only to rail, but also to roads to and from ports. The Finnish Transport Agency should therefore be given the task of reviewing traffic flows to and from ports in order to take measures to improve traffic disruption. A review of traffic flows can facilitate cities with a lot of ro-ro cargo and ships frequenting large freight flows, often resulting in long queues and irritation in cities. We Swedish democrats also want to make it easier for those who want to build dry harbours and relieve the usual ports by contributing to the ISPS security classification, which facilitates exports to the US.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-144	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to inform you that the Center Party is, of course, behind all its reservations. For time winning, however, I only agree to reservation 2. The Center Party would like to point out that shipping is a very important industry in terms of passenger and freight transport. The vast majority of Sweden's exports and imports go through our more than 50 ports and further out to sea. Worldwide, about 90 percent of the world's trade takes place via international maritime transport. Roads and railways need to be built, financed and planned, while the sea is an existing and, by its very nature, more borderless infrastructure with completely different conditions. Scandinavia and Sweden are surrounded by water, and the shipping industry is therefore of central importance for our country's prosperity and trade. The Center Party therefore believes that it is very important that the competitiveness of Swedish shipping does not deteriorate. The flagging out of Swedish vessels within shipping companies, merchant fleets and fishing vessels risks impoverishing the competence of shipping – this is because not only the vessels but also the land-based activities of shipping companies are being flagged out of the country. In recent years, the number of Swedish flagged vessels has increased, which is very gratifying, but it is also important that shipping companies are given the right conditions so that the number of Swedish flagged vessels can increase even more. Madam President, I would like The Center Party notes that since the mid-1990s the International Maritime Organisation has been working on an international agreement to reduce maritime emissions. In the spring of 2018, the organisation decided on a strategy for reducing greenhouse gases from international shipping. The strategy includes the target of reducing total maritime greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50% by 2050 compared to 2008, while aiming for zero emissions as soon as possible. This is gratifying, and the Center Party believes that Sweden should be the driving force for these commitments to be met. The Center Party also believes that increased use of climate-efficient fuels in maritime transport is urgently needed. The conditions for this should therefore be examined. It is also important that the fairway and pilotage fees charged by the Swedish Maritime Administration should be designed in such a way that they improve the environmental management of shipping and do not hamper the competitiveness of maritime transport. Not long ago, the Finnish Transport Administration's National Coordinator, Pia Berglund, presented 62 proposals for how shipping can increase its commitments in the area of sustainable and efficient maritime freight transport. It is described that, under the right conditions, twice as much goods can be transported by sea up to 2040. Madam President, I would like Inland and coastal shipping are important parts of Swedish shipping. They also contribute to the transfer of more goods to sea. I think we all agree that this activity is important to invest in, but here too the right conditions are needed. Such a condition may be fairway charges. They have until now been raised very strongly. The Center Party considers that the fairway charges levied for both inland and international shipping should be designed to improve the environmental management of maritime transport and not hamper the competitiveness of maritime transport. Inland shipping is also important in order to effectively connect, for example, Stockholm and Gothenburg and the parts of the country in between. The Gotland ferry can also be connected to inland navigation. It is important for Gotland's population but also for the tourism industry. The Gotland ferry also has a key role to play in switching to environmentally friendly fuel. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs new icebreakers to keep the fairways open during the winter months. Several of the icebreakers that the Swedish Maritime Administration has today are from the 1970s and need to be replaced. Today, Sweden has a cooperation with Finland in the field of ice mining. It allows for a good and effective way to break ice during the winter months. Historically, the Swedish Armed Forces have also had interests in the icebreakers and been able to use them in their operations during parts of the year. When the Armed Forces are now to be equipped and strengthened, new icebreakers may be relevant for their operations. In the Swedish industry there are ongoing projects where you want to be involved in developing and building new icebreakers. It is an exciting initiative that can be listened to. Madam President, I would like Sweden's more than 50 ports are important for its exports and imports of goods. Many of our ports are municipal or clean industrial ports. It is therefore important that we find ways to work together to facilitate the flow of goods. Since many of the ports, as has been said, are municipal and the infrastructure to and from the ports are sometimes state-owned, cooperation needs to take place here too, in order to get as good a flow as possible. When new ports are being built or old renovated, it is important to consider how the goods are then moved from the port. Maybe it should go on by rail or truck already in a first stage but maybe just the last bit, the last mile. It is therefore important to have good bearing capacity on the so-called BK4 roads so that the goods can reach the goal in a good way. Just as we talk about the whole travel chain for people, we need to think about the whole chain as well as about the goods. Whether it is people or goods to be moved, the Center Party believes that all modes of transport are needed and should be developed.
i-Nx4WNYYXTnnZTyuHVR1JR7	Madam President, I would like The Left Party is in favour of reservation 5. I would like to start by pointing out that the Left Party wants to see an ecologically sustainable merchant fleet with a large proportion of Swedish-flagged merchant ships where good working conditions prevail and where there is also more scope to increase the volume of domestic shipping. There have been very positive developments in the field of maritime transport. I'm pretty new in the field. But I am pleased that there seems to be a great deal of commitment to this issue. I think it can lead to a lot of good things going forward. In order to further strengthen Swedish maritime competitiveness, long-term sustainability through reduced environmental and climate impacts and good working conditions, we see the need for further action. In order to achieve the climate objectives, we must, in addition to reducing the number of transports, move more freight from road to rail and shipping. Purifying maritime emissions and making a consistent effort to increase the share of freight transport by shipping and by rail is a necessary measure in the transition to a sustainable transport system. The eco-bonus system where subsidies can be granted for transport that goes by ship and otherwise would have gone on the road is good and can be developed. There are strong reasons for having a strong domestic maritime industry in order to design the transport that the country's industry is asking for. It also ensures domestic availability of maritime skills including strong environmental and safety awareness and creates employment in the shipping industry and industry as a whole. Sweden will compete with investments in quality with modern, environmentally adapted and efficient ships and well-trained crews. The lack of trained personnel is a problem for Swedish shipping, not least for inland shipping. The Left Party wants measures that both attract people and make it easier for them to train for different maritime professions. One major problem is the small possibilities for practical training. It needs to be addressed before the shortage of personnel becomes acute. This is partly due to the focus of the training courses on the so-called Manila Certificate. It is an international certification that it is difficult to get an internship to achieve. We want another training system with other certifications and certification steps for inland navigation to be investigated. Perhaps you can start by working in inland navigation and then get an internship to achieve Manila certification. The development of Swedish shipping also requires improved maritime infrastructure. The Swedish Maritime Administration is not financed, such as the Finnish Transport Administration, via grants, but mainly through fees charged for fairway traffic, etc. In addition, the State has imposed certain return requirements on the Swedish Maritime Administration. The financing model leads to unequal conditions of competition between the modes of transport and hampers governance towards our transport and environmental policy objectives. We in the Left Party want an investigation into the conditions and consequences of transferring the funding of the Swedish Maritime Administration's activities to the state budget. We will come back with proposals on this. We also want the changes to the fairway charges and their effects to be reviewed, particularly as they seem to contribute to the reduction of inland waterway shipping, such as Väners. Instead, these transports have moved to road transport. We don't want that. The left-wing view is that in the longer term liquid biogas and other sustainable alternatives such as hydrogen and electric power should replace fossil fuels. Liquid biogas is in practice the same fuel as liquefied natural gas with the important difference that biogas is of renewable origin while natural gas is fossil, as we all know. In order for Sweden to develop greener shipping, more measures are needed. State investment aid for new technologies and innovations is needed. Madam President, I would like Watercraft have become popular during the summer months. But snowmobile driving isn't just fun. It can also lead to adverse effects on natural life and to significant disruptions and risks to the public. The current regulation of watercraft use has very significant shortcomings, unlike the regulation concerning motorcycles and mopeds, for example. We welcome the introduction of an age limit and assume that the government will shortly return with a proposal to the Riksdag to introduce driver's certificates to drive jet skis, in accordance with Parliament's announcement of 2015. Maritime transport is by nature a global activity that is mostly governed by international rules. Sweden should work towards the development of these international rules and means a cleaner and fairer shipping, for example by supporting international conventions in this direction. Even though Sweden has tougher rules, such conventions facilitate that we can also make demands on unflagged ships and international ships calling at Swedish ports. This shows above all solidarity and responsibility for other shipping too. Sweden has acceded to the ILO Maritime Labour Convention, which is great. It clarifies rules on working conditions and human rights on board ships. Sweden has a responsibility to ensure that this is followed up. We in the Left want to ensure that government procurement and export efforts require that human rights be respected at both the production and transport stages. In conclusion, the Left Party believes that shipping is a very important part of Sweden's infrastructure and that we need to work towards long-term sustainable shipping that takes over large parts of freight transport from the roads.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-173	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by pointing out that Swedish shipping is doing well. Large quantities of goods are transported, the merchant fleet is growing and shipping is becoming increasingly environmentally friendly. We see a positive development, and that is gratifying for a number of reasons. Today, approximately 10 000 people work on Swedish ships, and in the entire maritime sector there are approximately 100 000 jobs. It is jobs that create prosperity and prosperity. But shipping does not only enable jobs in its own sector. On the contrary, a large part of Swedish industry depends on well-functioning maritime transport. A large and well-functioning Swedish shipping with many jobs also means that we can maintain and develop competence in this area. That is one reason why we are so positive about the success of Swedish shipping. When goods are transported by sea, our roads and railways, which are heavily burdened by both freight and passenger transport, are also unloaded. There is a need for major investments in the future. More shipping is therefore positive for the whole traffic system. This, too, is one reason why it is positive that Swedish shipping is doing well. A third reason is that more shipping is good for the environment. It is a relatively environmentally friendly mode of transport, since, compared with other modes of transport, shipping is very efficient and transport takes place with relatively little energy consumption. We also see a rapid development in the industry with more electric vessels and hybrid ships. A fourth reason why it is positive that Swedish shipping is doing well is safety. A larger Swedish merchant fleet means that we are more prepared for a possible war or in some other type of crisis. In such a situation, a large and diversified fleet is needed. This is a matter of national security, Madam President. Although we should be pleased that we have positive developments now, there is of course more that needs to be done to improve the conditions. This is not least about the conditions that Swedish authorities provide, which in turn affect both costs and flexibility for companies in the industry. The administrative burden on the shipping industry risks hampering development and should be reduced as much as possible. In the maritime sector, as in many other industries, many feel that government contacts are complex. That is why we think it would be good to have a system that requires only one contact into the world of government. This would simplify the business environment. We also need to simplify the flagging procedures for those companies that wish to re-flag their ships Swedish. It must be easier for more people to move to the Swedish flag. A third change that would be good for a larger Swedish-flagged fleet is to provide the opportunity for advance rulings on maritime aid. Maritime aid, which is given to employers to cover tax expenditure, is essential for shipping companies to be able to carry out their current activities. Without maritime subsidies, many would probably flag out the ships they have in the Swedish Register of Ships. However, the uncertainty as to whether or not you are eligible for maritime aid means that shipping companies often refrain from registering ships in Sweden. It does not stand if we want the Swedish merchant fleet to grow. The possibility of an advance ruling on maritime aid should be introduced. Madam President, I would like When we talk about authorities, it is not possible to get around the Swedish Maritime Administration. The Swedish Maritime Administration is a business that is partly financed by the fairway fees they charge. It should be said that fairway fees from an international perspective are an odd bird. In order to keep its budget, the Swedish Maritime Administration has significantly increased its fees. Of course, it affects shipping directly, but in the next stage it also affects all of us. When it becomes more expensive to transport goods on Swedish waters, this means that SSAB's steel becomes more expensive and that the cars that Volvo builds on Hisingen become more expensive. How does it affect these companies, and how does it affect the ability to work in these companies? It hardly has a positive impact, Madam President. The trend in shipping is towards increasing the size of ships. It is quite natural, because the freight cost per unit then decreases. But with larger ships there will be fewer calls, and with the current model the Swedish Maritime Administration is forced to increase the fairway charges to make the economy go together. The effect of increased charges is that shipowners who operate ports more frequently with smaller ships have reduced profitability and may thus be forced to stop entering Swedish ports. As a result, the Swedish Maritime Administration will again increase the fees, as fewer will pay for the work's finances to go together. This is a negative spiral, Madam President, where fewer people are forced to pay more and the goods are in danger of leaving shipping, instead of being transported on lorries, for example. Fairway charges are therefore not only detrimental to jobs, but also to the possibility of transferring freight transport to shipping. As a result, fairway charges are also negative from a climate perspective. Against this background, the role and organisation of the Swedish Maritime Administration must be reviewed. Not least the role of a business must be tested critically. It should be considered whether the Swedish Maritime Administration can be funded and thus be able to focus more on strengthening shipping than at present. Madam President, I would like Finally, Swedish shipping is doing well. The Swedish merchant fleet is growing. Ships are becoming increasingly environmentally friendly. To the small island Donsö in Gothenburg's southern archipelago, which despite its size houses a dozen shipping companies, every two years thousands of visitors from around the world come to discuss shipping from an international perspective, make contacts and do business. There is much to build on in Swedish shipping. But the state needs to help by creating the right conditions. Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats in the report, but for the time to come, I only call for reservation 3.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-189	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Transport's maritime report. In this context, I would like to remind you that we are in an emergency for the climate. If we fail to reverse the emissions curves and significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, we will not achieve the Paris Agreement's objective of keeping the temperature increase well below two degrees and preferably for one and a half degrees with disastrous consequences for our entire world. Maritime transport has good potential to be part of the solution in the changeover. Maritime transport has a very important role in the Swedish transport system. As has been mentioned earlier in the debate, 90% of all imports and exports go over the lake. That is why the Green Party wants to see continued transfer of goods from road traffic to shipping. We have worked towards this in our government cooperation, which led to the introduction of an eco-bonus. The Eco-bonus can compensate for some of the additional costs associated with establishing maritime transport solutions as part of the transport chain. At the same time, shipping is still largely fossil-dependent. There is therefore a need for further efforts to re-establish maritime transport. Electricity and batteries can of course provide a good solution for ferries that run relatively short distances. As an example, I would like to highlight the ferries crossing Öresund on the Helsingborg – Helsingör route. Electricity can also be important when ships are in port. It is positive to see that there will be more and more land connections that will allow ships to connect to the electricity grid and thus avoid running diesel engines to supply the ship with electricity when it is in port. I want to see more ports make such investments. But for more long-distance shipping, other solutions are needed. Here I would like to pay particular attention to the potential for liquid biogas, LBG. A shift to more biogas in shipping would also ensure a outlet for Swedish biogas production, so that the necessary investments are made to exploit our biogas potential. The Green Party and the Social Democrats have made great efforts in the government for shipping, which has also been well highlighted by my colleague Johan Büser. He highlighted our work on tonnage tax and on a maritime coordinator, which we have now introduced. These are important steps to strengthen maritime transport. In particular, shipping is an important part of the freight transport strategy. However, it is important to take further steps to get more goods to go by sea and to change shipping. The Green Party wants to see a better balance between the costs of land-based and sea-based goods in order to achieve more of a competitive neutrality. We see here the necessity of working with both positive and negative incentives. Therefore, in addition to a developed eco-bonus, we also see the need for, for example, a road wear tax or equivalent. There is a great untapped potential in developing inland navigation. The Socialist and environmental party government has taken a number of measures in this area. But, of course, I expect further action to be taken. I would like to emphasise that we from the Green Party and the Social Democrats are also very positive about barge traffic and want to see it develop. We have also written about this in our reservation. However, we do not believe that there is a need for an announcement at this stage. Of course, there is also a need for continued investment in fossil freedom. The ships that are being ordered, built and put into service today will live for a very long time. The shift in shipping therefore needs to accelerate. We see environmental differentiation of various charges, such as fairway charges, as an important tool for this transformation. It should be possible to take an additional cost to create a more sustainable and fossil-free fleet. Important investments in ports and the promotion of intermodality are also needed. I am concerned that the possibility of transporting trains by ship is so limited and is in danger of disappearing. The possibility of continuing to transport trains from the port of Trelleborg by ship is important, not least as a complement to the Öresund Bridge, which would otherwise be the only link for rail transport out to Europe. Madam President, I would like Shipping, like aviation, is very much an international issue. It is important that Sweden continues to be a very strong voice in the IMO in order for a transition to take place at international level. Madam President, I would like The Green Party believes that shipping is important for the transition to a fossil-free and fossil-independent society. But the transition in maritime transport must be promoted and accelerated. I support our reservation No 5. Otherwise, I support the committee's report.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-200	Madam President, I would like I thank Emma Berginger for her speech. I am pleased that, for example, electric power is mentioned. The ferry between Helsingborg and Helsingör runs on battery. We have many ports where it is very important that when the ferry is in port you can connect to the landing. There are horror examples where ferries are located in the harbour and have the engines running for over five hours to keep the systems running. It may even be a whole day in some cases. But it's for me unsearched into how we're gonna get electricity. In fact, this goes a little against the policy of the Green Party, I think. How are we gonna get electricity? Actually, there's gonna be a question I have to ask. Both Emma Berginger and I come from the southern parts of the beautiful Skåne. There companies are now being denied establishment. Construction projects are cancelled due to lack of electricity. How does the Green Party want to solve this? How are we supposed to have ferries with electric power and supply ferries with landing if we have a shortage of electricity? Emma Berginger also mentioned the eco-bonus, which I really think is a good initiative. There are now 50 million annually between 2018 and 2020. Last year it froze in a little bit, because it was put into use so late. Not much was distributed. But the eco bonus is somehow quite interesting compared to the increased fairway fees. Since the fairway fees are increased by just over a quarter of a billion annually, 50 million compensations in the eco-bonus for conversion are quite small.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-203	Madam President, I would like I was pleasantly surprised that I got a line. I have to thank you very much for it. Then I am less surprised that Mr Hansson wants to make this a nuclear debate. I note that we in the Green Party have drawn attention to the problems that exist with regard to the capacity of the electricity grids. That is where the problem lies in particular. However, we do not believe that there is a need for an investment in nuclear energy, which Anders Hansson and his party would be happy to say. We believe that we must invest in what is sustainable for the future, and that is renewable energy. Anders Hansson mentions the eco bonus as a good initiative. It's nice to hear that even the Moderates note that the eco bonus is a good initiative. The purpose of the eco-bonus is, as I said, to encourage the transfer from road transport to maritime transport and also to compensate for some of the costs associated with the transfer of goods. This is not about compensation for the fairway charges, but about compensation for moving goods from road to sea, Madam President.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-206	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to make this a nuclear issue, but just to say: how does the Green Party intend to ensure that we get electricity for ferries and ports? But yes, it is absolutely true: I am a strong advocate of nuclear power, because I think that is the solution. But I was not going to go into it any more, but I was going to go into something that Emma Berginger said at the end of her speech and which I am extremely pleased about. Emma Berginger mentioned ferry traffic with rails, which is a scarce commodity without equals. Today it is a port throughout Sweden that has that capacity, and it is Trelleborg. It is the shipping company Scandlines that has three ferries, I think it is – two in operation and one in reserve. But it has gone from 200,000 units down to 20,000 units. So it is very unprofitable to do this. Now Scandlines do it anyway. I can see from a maritime perspective, a business perspective and a total defence perspective that it is important that we have somewhere the possibility of ferry services with rails. It is important that we keep this. Now it becomes a bit so that we let Scandlines take this at their expense. I would like to ask Emma Berginger: Is it the case that the Green Party – and the government that includes the Green Party – is willing to take further responsibility for keeping ferries with rails? Now there are three ferries in Trelleborg.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-209	Madam President, I would like The Green Party sees a need for us to transform society into a fossil-free and renewable society. This involves both energy supply and transport and industry. As far as energy supply is concerned, we want to see a strong commitment to renewable alternatives. We also see that this is where it is most profitable today. With the existing energy agreement, we see that we will move in that direction. But we also see a need to review the capacity gaps that may exist in the electricity grid needed for electrification. As I mentioned in my speech, I am concerned about the limited possibilities of driving trains on ferries. This is an issue that is increasingly being raised. There is a lack of profitability and a lack of willingness to invest in new ferries with rails. It's a very important issue for the government to watch. It is also an issue that I and the Green Party see as very important and which we will be monitoring and pushing forward. We see that there is a need to have several connections to the continent for rail transport. For both the goods and passenger traffic and, not least, the total defence, as Mr Hansson mentioned, there is a great need to have that opportunity. When we visited other ports, we were also able to note precisely the lack of tracks. There is perhaps a potential to use other ports for rail traffic in the future too.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-213	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a country that benefits from free trade. We have large raw materials and world-leading companies that export most of their production, such as vehicles, to other continents. This gives good income to Sweden. Maritime transport accounts for 90% of our transports into the world. We can also note that within the country we are beginning to reach or have already reached the capacity ceiling on our roads and railways around the country. Our inland waterways are an asset with relatively limited use at present. These two areas show the importance of shipping for Sweden both economically and environmentally. It is gratifying that in early 2019 we passed 100 Swedish registered ships in the Swedish merchant fleet. From a level of 250 ships 10 – 15 years ago, we were down to as low as 85 ships last year. The reason for this positive trend is considered, among other things, to be the introduction of the tonnage tax system. But we can't settle down. We need to develop a comprehensive action plan for Swedish shipping to identify and prioritise measures that create stable, long-term conditions for shipping in order to be able to compete on equal terms both internationally and with other modes of transport. Here, the Liberals see, among other things, measures to improve the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances. Today's poor economy risks hampering investment in icebreakers, among other things. This, in turn, risks a significant deterioration in accessibility to our ports during the winter. That is why the Swedish Maritime Administration's economy is one of the key issues. Madam President, I would like Long-term conditions make it easier for professional organisations to make the necessary investments for the future in order to increase capacity and meet increased climate requirements for shipping. With priority measures, the great potential of shipping to contribute to the transport area's climate objectives can be exploited. This applies, in particular, to the transfer from our road transport. Sweden has more than fifty ports. Many of them have developed strongly linked to local businesses with a strong need for transport. Sweden's ports need to offer cost-effective and fast transhipment of goods in order to increase their attractiveness internationally and against other modes of transport. Digitalization and further development of the infrastructure in Sweden's ports are very important here. Competition internationally is fierce today, and smooth harbour runs enable Swedish shipping to maintain and strengthen its market positions. Liberals want to increase the system thinking in the Swedish transport system across the transport modes. Maritime transport has a major impact on traffic intensity in the rest of the transport system. It is therefore important that transport to and from ports is efficient. Much of the goods arriving at the ports are transhipped to trucks and trains. It must therefore be ensured that the roads adjacent to the ports are sufficiently durable and safe and that the railway capacity is sufficient. For example, Scandinavia's largest port, Gothenburg, has single tracks to the main railway connection. Stockholm Harbour Norvik, which has been planned for 10 years and will be launched in 2020, is at risk of being burdened with less unsafe roads with a significant increase in heavy traffic. This is not acceptable. Liberals want to develop the overall thinking in the transport system where capacity and transitions between different modes of transport and developments in different modes of transport are linked. Liberals want to highlight the importance of our inland waterways. Only 3% of our domestic transport takes place on our inland waterways. The potential is that a single barge can replace at least 60 trucks on the road. The barge can also facilitate city logistics in our traffic-tight cities so that we do not have to get large quantities of trucks into the central parts. We want to continue the renovation of the inland waterway infrastructure and to review the conditions for inland waterway transport. This would be part of the Action Plan with various measures to strengthen maritime transport. Finally, Madam President, I would like to touch on the lack of competence. In order to enable a continued increase in Swedish shipping and take advantage of its opportunity as an employer, we need to focus on competence development and the special working conditions of shipping. With attractive training opportunities linked to good working conditions and combining family life with maritime work, the current skills gap can be avoided in the future. Finally, I would like to point out that competent personnel, long-term conditions and improved port infrastructure are important elements for Sweden to continue to be able to assert itself in maritime transport internationally and to exploit the potential of our inland waterways.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-226	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Transport Committee's report TU16 on road and vehicle issues. In the report we have 86 different motions for motion from different parties. These include heavy-duty vehicles, self-driving vehicles, a fossil-free vehicle fleet, renewable fuels and many other important issues. Madam President, I would like I would like to start with the climate part of the report. When we have worked on this report, we have listened, among other things, to the Climate Policy Council, which has carried out its first review of the government's policy to achieve our climate objectives. As far as our climate objectives are concerned, the sector for which we are responsible, the transport sector, is the only sector that has its own sectoral target. By 2030, emissions from the transport sector will have decreased by 70% compared to 2010 levels. There are about ten years left until then. What about reducing emissions from the transport sector? Unfortunately, things are not going in the right direction right now. If we look at the latest statistics on emissions from the road sector, we can see that in 2018 there was an increase, not a decrease. So we still have a lot to do here. I am pleased that there is such a great deal of commitment in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. I would like this commitment to be able to infect itself right up to the government and our responsible authorities, because there is far too little happening. An important point raised by the Climate Policy Council is our infrastructure planning, namely future investments and infrastructure planning. The Council notes that planning is not synchronised with our climate targets. It is very strange that we have an infrastructure plan that extends until 2029 and does not stay within our climate targets. Instead, new motorway projects are proposed, for example, which will lead to increased emissions. Here, in the Left Party, we believe that we need to take action. We need infrastructure planning and future investments that remain entirely within the framework of the climate for us. One important thing that we in the Left Party believe the government could do here and now is to introduce a ban on the sale of new cars that run on fossil fuels, i.e. cars that run on diesel and petrol. We want such a ban by 2025. With such a ban, we would send a clear signal to the industry that in future it is fossil-free cars that we put on the market. It is electric cars, biogas cars and other cars that can only be powered by renewable fuels. We think it is important to put this responsibility on industry to begin with so that industry produces vehicles that are part of the solution and not part of the problem. We want this new car sales ban also to be enforced at European level. I also note that this is a requirement that is being discussed in many European countries right now, for example in Denmark, which has elections today. There, a new car sales ban has been announced for fossil-powered cars from 2030 onwards. In view of this, Madam President, I support the Left Party's Amendment No 19, which deals with this very issue. Madam President, I would like Another important issue in the report is that we in the Committee on Transport are now sending a so-called announcement to the government to put an end to the manipulation of road gauges in vehicles which, unfortunately, are going on on a relatively large scale in Sweden today. I would like to say that this is a bit of a historic moment, because this is the first time the Committee on Transport – at least as far as I know – has taken a so-called committee initiative and is directing it to the government. It is a united committee that supports two clear demands for the government. The first is that we want the government to criminalise the manipulation of road gauges in vehicles in order to reduce the mileage of the meter. The second is that we want vehicles' odometers to be checked during the inspection and that the road gauge should be recorded and compared with the previous inspection. In this way, it is already possible to see at the inspection whether there is a clear difference between the previous inspection. Madam President, I would like Manipulation of odometers is a major problem. It is a major problem that this is not illegal in Sweden today. I would like to say that this is a growing problem. We are talking about somewhere between 10 000 and over 100 000 vehicles with incorrect odometers rolling on Swedish roads. For example, by manipulating an odometer, you can withdraw the position from 300 000 kilometres down to 20,000, and when you sell the car you can get a higher secondary price. This will also be a major problem when Swedish cars are exported from Sweden to other countries. For example, we have received media data from the Netherlands, where Swedish Volvo cars are sold with manipulated road gauges. It is about thousands of consumers being fooled in Sweden and in other countries when they buy Swedish cars with manipulated odometers. This is also a road safety problem to the extent that we have cars rolling on our roads that are much older and have gone much further than what is reported to our public registers. This is part of a bigger problem. The European Parliament adopted a resolution last May on precisely road gauge manipulation, in which it wants the Member States to act and stop the procedure. Several countries have also banned the manipulation of road gauges in cars. This applies, for example, to Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and Ireland – but not to Sweden. There are several of us in this House who have addressed us directly to the responsible minister, Tomas Eneroth, and to the government and called on them to act urgently against the fraud with the road gauge positions. The answers we have received from the Minister for Infrastructure are that he does not intend to take action here and now. That is why we in the committee are now acting and sending a message to the government with the message of making it forbidden to deliberately manipulate road gauges in cars in order to lower the road gauge position. We also want the government to act in order for inspection to collect data on the road gauge and compare with previous inspection protocols. We want the government to act urgently, because this is an urgent problem. Now the ball lies with the government. We in the Transport Committee and the Parliament have done our part. Next week, hopefully, a fully united parliament will vote in favour of the government having to act against the widespread cheating of road gauges in cars. It's, folks, history that we write here. These are big things. Finally, we can put an end to the widespread cheating, and I am very pleased that we have managed to achieve this.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-245	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the TU16 report on road and vehicle issues. Sweden is a large and sparsely populated country. The car, the truck– yes, all our vehicles are absolutely necessary for the whole of Sweden to work. It is no coincidence that two of the world's largest truck manufacturers are located in Sweden: Scania and Volvo Trucks. We need the transport to get goods to and from companies and to our households in Sweden, where cars and trucks are the only reasonable alternative. Sweden's forests are one of our most important industries. The timber is going out from the smallest forest roads to sawmills and pulp industries. It creates jobs and growth throughout Sweden. Our roads must work and be navigable both during summer and winter. Maintenance and snow clearance must work. Nor is it reasonable for a country that is so dependent on functioning roads and vehicles to have the world's highest petrol and diesel prices. Moreover, the fact that there are even higher fuel taxes in a country where taxes are already high is not reasonable. Our companies and people must have a car and a truck in order for life and work to work. Madam President, I would like Gas and diesel taxes have reached the ceiling. The taxes on petrol and diesel must now be reduced, because the Swedish people have really had enough of these sky-high taxes on petrol. The gas taxes hit people who need the car hard. They hit people in the countryside hard. And these sky-high taxes are hitting Swedish competitiveness hard. We need to reduce petrol and diesel taxes. Madam President, I would like We have two of the world's largest truck manufacturers, and we have developed long and heavy trucks in Sweden. These developments must continue in order for us to be rational and effective. We need to improve the bearing capacity of our roads, so that they can handle higher loads and longer vehicles. This work to strengthen and rebuild our roads must go faster, and it is important that our roads are prioritised for the whole of Sweden to work. The maintenance of our roads and railways must be increased in Sweden. It is therefore absolutely unbelievable that the government is currently planning new, expensive and extremely unprofitable high-speed trains. There's no money for high-speed trains. The money available must be used to rebuild, expand and maintain our roads and railways in Sweden, so that the whole country can function. Madam President, I would like Other important issues raised in this report concern electrification of our cars. There are more and more electrified cars coming, and that really requires society to keep up with us and that we expand the charging possibilities that must exist and that we electrify our roads. Madam President, I would like Unless this happens at a faster pace, this government will slow down the positive trend towards more electrified cars, trucks, buses and more that we need in this country. Madam President, I would like The infrastructure to cope with higher electricity supplies also needs to be improved and expanded. We need more power to meet the electricity needs of the future. We therefore need to continue to build electricity to meet future capacity needs. It is therefore important that we maintain and expand nuclear power in Sweden. Madam President, I would like In this report, a majority and then the whole committee have forced the government to tackle the illegal manipulation of our vehicle gauges. We have forced the government to criminalise the manipulation of vehicle gauges in our cars. It is not reasonable for people to be able to manipulate vehicle gauges in order to deceive the buyer of the car. It is then portrayed as that the car has rolled a shorter distance than what the car has actually done. We have also requested that the inspection report clearly indicate what the measurement position in the vehicle was at least three times earlier – this in order for everyone to be able to see if the measurement position really corresponds to the vehicle's rolled kilometres. Madam President, I would like We in the Moderates have also lifted the importance of having a regulatory system that facilitates our historic vehicles. We have many people doing a huge job of renovating and preserving old vehicles and caring for our rolling cultural-historical vehicles. That is why we want to look further at how we can facilitate the regulatory environment right around these veteran vehicles. Madam President, I would like Our existing road network and the individual roads must function and be maintained. We believe that the state should continue to take financial responsibility for maintaining a good standard on the individual road network and that the response and application of the regulatory framework by the authorities should aim to facilitate maintenance and reinvestment in these individual roads. Madam President, I would like We Moderates support all our reservations in the report, but for the winning time, I only call for reservation 14 on individual roads.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-260	Madam President, I would like We just heard Sten Bergheden speak in favour of reduced tax on fossil diesel and petrol. He said that no new railway should be built, that more roads should be built and that we should have more trucks. At the same time, the Moderates are behind the goal of reducing our emissions from the transport sector by 70% by 2030. All the things that Sten Bergheden talked about lead to increased emissions, not decreased. In such an important debate, I think it has a responsibility to also tell you how to reduce emissions, in line with the climate targets that we are all behind. I would therefore like to ask: what is the Moderates' proposal in order to reduce emissions from the transport sector?
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-262	Madam President, I would like First of all, I can say this: it is about whether we are going to be able to keep companies in this country and whether we are going to continue to develop and create jobs and growth, which is very valuable. In this particular country, we are very environmentally friendly, both in industry and in various industries. So we are at the forefront. If we impose high taxes in this country, we will move our activities to other countries that have completely different emissions requirements, which will, overall, worsen the climate. The policy of the Left and the Government is often about the only way to achieve climate goals and other things being higher and higher taxes. As a result, companies and others move abroad. Imports from other countries to Sweden are increasing. Transport rolls into Sweden instead of out of Sweden, with environmentally friendly products. It's actually like this: When people get a little more money in their wallet and a little better economy due to reduced taxes, they can afford to buy a new car. They can afford to take these climate steps in their chain and perhaps switch to electrified cars. You're taxing people so hard today that they can't afford to change cars. You're charging taxes on petrol and diesel. It's the same with companies. When companies can roll on and make money, they make climate investments for better climate in the future. Otherwise, I can say: If we are going to meet climate targets, it is about electrifying our roads and ensuring that we have charging infrastructure. It is about maintaining, developing and expanding the nuclear power that exists in Sweden, so that we can cope with the electricity requirement that we have. We have climate targets, but we also have electricity requirements for us to really complete the transition fully. Both the Left and the Government are completely lacking in politics.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-266	Madam President, I would like I would like to inform those who follow the debate that even during the eight years in which the Moderates ruled the country, even the CO2 tax and the energy tax were not reduced. On the contrary, taxes on fuel were actually increased. It is important to do so, but it is also important to offer people who are dependent on car alternatives. That is why compensatory measures are needed for people living in sparsely populated areas. We need a change in the travel allowance that is just to the benefit of people living in sparsely populated areas and people who make active environmental choices and not, as today, people living in big cities. I agree with Sten Bergheden that it is very important to electrify the fleet of vehicles. But I do not understand, Madam President, how we do it by allowing fossil fuels to become cheaper, so that we can refuel more of the emissions. We in the Left Party, for example, want to ban new car sales of fossil-powered cars. In this way, we send a clear signal to the market and industry that these cars are being developed that it is cars without emissions that will apply in the future. Madam President, I would like Now that we hear that the only thing the Moderates have to offer the transport sector for reducing emissions is nuclear power and we know that one cannot build a single new reactor by 2030, because it costs a huge amount of money and takes a very long time, I must ask Sten Bergheden: Do you support the objective of reducing emissions from the transport sector by at least 70% by 2030? What concrete measures do you have besides nuclear power, which we will not have by 2030?
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-270	Madam President, I would like The left is talking about banning cars. I do not know if Jens Holm has been outside Stockholm's customs and seen what the rest of the country looks like. If Jens Holm were to go as far as banning cars, he would shut down the whole countryside. Then he can sit and talk about any travel allowance – people will not be able to travel anymore, because they are forced to leave! That is the truth that is out there, and it would be good to take note of it in this debate. It's about new technology and actually listening to our companies and our car manufacturers in Sweden. We were just down in Gothenburg and visited our truck manufacturers and discussed these issues. We are involved in building up the new infrastructure needed to electrify. Instead, the government is trying to find a high-speed train, which already shows inefficiencies at a calculatory stage. So you spend money on something that is unprofitable and that also has no impact on the climate goals, and you don't really want to take care of the other stuff. Instead, they invest in electric bicycles. In the past, people trampled, but now they're offering to ride with electric power. Then Jens Holm asks me how to solve the electricity demand. Start by removing the electric bikes so that people can start pedaling again! Then we have at least reduced that part in the context, because electric bicycles do not help to lift off an electric power need. We believe that we need more and above all more stable power plants. We are also in favour of expanding biofuels and everything else. We need it both for flights and for other things in the future. Such things are also needed. But we must ensure that we have the electricity that we really need, and that is where we need to look at nuclear power. We are in favour of cars, we are in favour of bicycles, but we are against Left tax policy!
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-276	Madam President, I would like The heading of the Committee on Transport's report 16 is Road and vehicle issues. The Swedish Democrats support all our reservations in the report, but for time winning I only call for reservation 2. Madam President, I would like During the summer of 2018, Trafikverket was able to open a limited part of the road network to a new type of bearing strength class, what is called BK4. Compared to the previous 64 tonnes limit, vehicle combinations are now allowed up to 74 tonnes on these roads. With the right combination of vehicles and the right axle configuration you can reduce the pressure on the roads and thus generate more environmentally friendly transport than today. With a adapted vehicle of 74 tonnes gross weight, the axle loads are reduced even though the combination of vehicles becomes heavier. It is not always such a combination gets better from an economic perspective, as the construction of vehicles itself becomes more expensive. From an environmental point of view, however, a 74-tonne sekipage is effective because it carries more payload. The Swedish Transport Agency is now tasked with developing roads where vehicles in the BK4 class can be driven. We have previously stated in the Riksdag that success with BK4 requires greater use to be made of the routes that manage these transports while maintaining safety and functionality. For the Swedish Democrats it is important that as much as possible of the Swedish road network is open to BK4. There are, of course, limitations where, for example, bridges cannot handle a 74-tonne vehicle combination, but otherwise the road network should be open. Madam President, I would like However, while we have the theme of efficient transport up for discussion, I must comment on the opposite development we are seeing in the transport sector today. More and more goods are being moved from vehicles capable of a gross mass of 64 tonnes to so-called European haulers, which often have a gross weight of 40 tonnes. From an environmental point of view, this development is totally reprehensible, as there are three Europeans in two full-sized Swedish combinations. It gets even worse when goods are moved to so-called 3.5-tonnes. These vehicles are light trucks with a total weight of 3.5 tonnes. The load mass of this vehicle type is only 1 tonne. Those who follow developments in the transport industry see that this type of vehicle is increasing rapidly. Traffic police have reported a large number of these so-called light loaders. Let me take a few headlines from the recent news feed: These were just some of the headlines that have recently appeared in the press. The serious situation with these overloaded vehicles is illustrated by the fact that the police call the controls "aquarie fishing". Madam President, I would like What is the underlying reason why we see this trend towards ever smaller transport units? There are many reasons, and I cannot list everyone here, but if we look at the 3.5 tons, there are several reasons for this development. The vehicle type does not require a tachograph, nor do they need to be licensed in international traffic. In practice, these vehicles fly under government radar. They may have a police checkpoint, but we all know how small that risk is. Madam President, I would like Let me take an example that highlights the problem, not least from an environmental point of view. A full-sized combination with car and trailer has a load weight of about 39 tonnes and a fuel consumption of just under 4 litres per mile. During a trip Stockholm – Gothenburg thus consumes the transport of these 39 tons of goods 180 litres of diesel. If the same quantity of goods is to be transported legally with so-called light loaders, no less than 39 vehicles are required. Their common fuel consumption would be about 1 755 litres for the same route. There is a difference of 1575 liters – one-way journey! The difference will be 3 150 liters. The fact that these light loaders carry heavy overloads is unsurprising because it is not possible to obtain a reasonable transport cost when loading legally. This is the development we see in our transport industry, which runs counter to all environmental ambitions. Madam President, I would like The report we are just debating contains some motions on renewable fuels, a fossil-free vehicle fleet and electric roads. These movements have as their starting point the improvement of our common environment. It's beautiful like that, but for what good? It is perhaps a provocative question, but, as I said earlier, the reality is going in the opposite direction. The headings I referred to show a rapidly growing trend, where goods are transferred to smaller vehicles instead of being placed on larger and significantly more energy efficient vehicles or on rail. What we are seeing is the result of a transport industry that has been left without control and protection from our authorities. This situation has led to serious road haulage companies with high environmental ambitions not being able to compete with foam companies that are constantly in breach of existing regulations. Developments have also had a negative impact on railway undertakings, as they also lose transport assignments. The increase in CO2 emissions from transport is hardly surprising when one sees developments in the transport industry. But what else can one expect from a political leadership that literally sits on its hands? Madam President, I would like If we are to regain a healthy, environmentally friendly and functioning transport market, in which hauliers, railways and shipping can develop a healthy and sustainable transport industry, we need to get tough on those operators who put in systems to run overload or otherwise round the regulatory framework. Something is really sick about a transport industry that moves goods from efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles to small and energy-intensive units. If we do not get things right in the transport industry, everyone's ambitions about renewable fuels, a fossil-free fleet and electric roads will remain dreams.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-296	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the audience and the trainee of the Transport Committee, Mr Shanelle Esmaeili, who is following the debate from the gallery! Today we are dealing with road and vehicle issues, and I wanted to take up three perspectives. One is the climate perspective, another is the widespread cheating with metering positions and the third is self-driving vehicles. And of course there are many more perspectives to highlight linked to road and vehicle issues. Undoubtedly, the climate issue is the overriding issue. In the part of the country where I come from, and in many other parts of the country, we are now facing a severe water shortage in the summer. It will no longer be a matter of course that fresh and drinkable water comes from taps supplied from the municipal water supply. Worse still is the situation for people with their own water supply. That day the water runs out, and that day the water is not drinkable, then the climate issue has crawled under the skin of us, my friends. Undoubtedly, road and vehicle issues, transport policy, are part of both the challenge and the solution. For the Center Party, it is obvious that climate impact and environmental impact must be reduced without compromising the mobility required for the whole country to live, for all industries to thrive and for people to be able to be active in order to help meet the challenges ahead. A wide range of solutions and complementary technologies are therefore required. For example, in urban environments it can be about sharing vehicles in car pools or other smart, digital mobility and sharing services. They can of course also contribute to mobility and accessibility in other parts of the country. Regardless of what we land in for technicians, it is important that they are followed by tools and instruments that can be used by those who make everyday decisions in our country, i.e. municipalities and regions. Municipalities and regions wishing to make use of economic instruments, such as congestion taxes, environmental charges or other local environmental and traffic regulations, must be allowed to do so. Today, there is no legal definition of car pool. This makes VAT and regulatory issues more difficult. One of the many consequences of this is that the municipalities that want cannot reserve a parking space for a car park because a municipality cannot allocate a seat to an independent company. The Center Party therefore believes that the government – it is a low hanging fruit – must develop the legal definition of car pool and the corresponding regulatory constraints in order to make it possible to use car pools and other smart sharing services as a means of better urban environment, increased accessibility, reduced congestion and better climate work. The electrification of the transport sector has been pointed out by many in the debate as one of many ways of reducing climate impact, given that electricity is produced in a sensible and wise way. In this case, the development of infrastructure to be able to charge vehicles is an absolutely crucial issue. It won't help to have electric vehicles if we can't refuel them. One measure to improve charging infrastructure, which I and the Center Party would like to draw attention to, is the introduction of a so-called e-number that indicates how many charging places should exist when a new parking space is set up. There is no requirement but to build parking spaces as housing is built. However, there is no requirement for a certain proportion of them to be fitted with charging equipment. Madam President, I would like I mentioned initial metering. For those of us who took a driver's license during the last millennium and perhaps bought our first vehicle some time during the 70s or 80s, the mechanical handy could be noticed to be careful that the car was not turned back. That's what it was called at home in Småland. It was then a classic way of tricking less skilled car buyers in the secondhand market to buy a car that had gone too far at too high a price. This is what we thought we would avoid with the modern instruments available in the cars today and our ability to control the metering position. But that's not the case. In Swedish legislation, therefore, it is not illegal, unlike any other EU country, to change the metering position in a car, that is, the position that shows how far a vehicle has gone. In addition to the purely consumer-law aspect of a buyer of a car with a manipulated odometer being cheated, environmental and safety issues are, of course, linked to this issue, namely that thousands of cars are rolling around which have gone far beyond what is officially stated. It is therefore a good thing that in the announcement, a united committee, and now also a united parliament, steers the government and calls for measures to be taken, on the one hand, to criminalise manipulation and, on the other hand, for the vehicle's road gauge to be checked in a relevant way in connection with the annual inspection. Madam President, I would like Transport efficiency is part of the climate work and the way forward, i.e. how much impact there is from moving 1 tonne of goods from point A to point B. Long, heavy and therefore transport-efficient vehicles are part of the solution. As a centre party, I believe that there are great environmental and social benefits to take advantage of by exploiting longer, heavier and therefore more transport-efficient vehicles on the Swedish road network. We want to draw up legislation that today allows us to operate parts of the Swedish road network with heavier vehicles. But it's just a matter of parts – and it's as little as 8-10% – and therefore the transport logic does not arise. That is why it is reasonable that the work on efficiency is progressing, and I am pleased that this is something that they are certainly not so much money but the clearly addressed millions to smaller roads that were included in our amending budget, precisely in order to strengthen the smaller road network in Sweden. A journey consists of both large and small roads. The benefits of longer and heavier vehicles are obvious. There will be spare capacity that can be used more efficiently, and CO2 emissions will be kept down. It also improves the competitiveness of transport-dependent industries. In principle, all the industry in our country is dependent on transport because Sweden is such an extremely trade-dependent country. The competitiveness of industry will be improved if technology is available to it. Since 2009, almost ten years, there has been testing with longer and heavier vehicles than is normally permitted in the country. All studies together show that the climate gain is up to 10 percent per tonne transported, and the congestion effect is positive. I would say, Madam President and friends, that this is a low-hanging fruit in the ambition to have an accessible society operating all over the country, a sustained transport sector and to meet climate requirements. Madam President, I would like Let me say something about the autonomous vehicles. Me and the Center Party are convinced that they will revolutionise how we transport both goods and people and how we will fundamentally build and design roads and urban areas in the future. However, this self-driving vehicle is not just about the transport of people and goods, but will have consequences in a number of areas: housing, transport infrastructure, education, entrepreneurship, the job market, health care and the economy. What is missing today, Madam President, are political decisions that ensure that this technology-intensive activity can be developed, shaped and tested safely in our country. If we as a nation miss the opportunity to develop, test and be at the forefront of this, we will have to deal with the corresponding test and development work of other countries, rather than taking advantage of the obvious benefits that exist in our country and taking precedence. Madam President, I would like Of course, the Center Party supports the reservations that we have in this report, but for time to come, I only call for reservation No 1.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-316	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that we are now receiving an announcement to the government regarding manipulated metering positions. It goes without saying to us that this type of manipulation should be illegal. It is also important that the metering is reviewed during the inspection so that the owner or buyer of a car knows that the metering is correct. Madam President, I would like There is great environmental and social benefit in exploiting heavier and longer trucks on the Swedish road network. Today, the heaviest trucks can be driven on only about 8% of the Swedish road network. If more roads are opened up for longer and heavier trucks, we can take advantage of spare capacity, which leads to increased efficiency while keeping CO2 emissions down. It also improves the competitiveness of transport-dependent industries, while at the same time benefiting the domestic transport industry. Since 2009, testing has been carried out with longer and heavier vehicle trains. Together with a variety of studies, the attempts show that emissions are reduced by an average of about 10 percent per tonne transported. We therefore believe that it is a priority to allow heavier and longer vehicles in traffic to reduce the number of road transport, which in itself benefits the environment, the economy and road safety. Madam President, I would like The so-called Pump Act was introduced in 2005 to get more petrol stations to offer renewable fuels. However, since the law was introduced, electric cars have taken on an increasing market share, although this is still a modest increase. One explanation for the modest increase is, in our opinion, the lack of charging stations. Anyone who buys a new electric car must know it can be loaded. Unfortunately, the Pump Act excludes electricity as renewable fuel. A gas station owner who wants to invest in charging stations must therefore also offer petrol, diesel and, for example, ethanol. This makes it difficult to build up charging infrastructure. We believe that the gas station owners should be allowed to invest in electricity charging stations. This would increase the availability of charging stations. Against this background, we want the pump law's exemption for electricity to be removed. We would also like to point out that heavy road transport is a major source of CO2 emissions. We therefore see an increased share of renewable fuels as desirable. Madam President, I would like Today, many accidents occur as a result of the human factor, which, in our view, can be reduced by means of self-governing vehicles. Self-governing vehicles can also facilitate work commuting for those who are otherwise dependent on cars. The freight transport sector is also benefiting from the technological development of autonomous vehicles, and in the not too distant future more freight transport will be automated. Sweden has good opportunities to act as a leading country in this area because we have world-class vehicle manufacturing and a good starting point. Experiments with autonomous vehicles are already taking place on our roads. In our opinion, these attempts need to be stepped up. At the same time, we are seeing challenges in the field of insurance. We should continue to have a positive attitude towards further research and testing of new autonomous vehicles. In our opinion, Sweden needs a comprehensive strategy for autonomous vehicles. Madam President, I would like Electrification has great potential as fuel for cars. Technology has a positive development, and sales are progressing. However, in order to encourage consumers to buy charging hybrids and electric cars, it must be easier to charge vehicles. We therefore believe that Sweden should push forward within the EU to coordinate the current standards for charging electric cars like the system planned for charging mobile phones. In this context, we would like to emphasise that Sweden has a leading automotive industry in terms of road safety and reduced emissions. That development must continue. Sweden also has almost completely carbon neutral electricity production, which means that we are a role model in this area. Against this background, we believe that Sweden should develop a comprehensive strategy for electric cars, including the production of fossil-free electricity. Today we use 140 terawatt hours. For a well-functioning electrification of, among other things, the automotive industry, we will need about 200 terawatt hours by 2045. Madam President, I would like If we can get heavy traffic to use electricity instead of today's fuel, it will, in our view, be one of the most important reforms to reduce CO2 emissions in Sweden. A prerequisite for successful development of well-functioning electrified roads is that traffic managers' responsibility for electrification is made clear on strategically selected routes. One business model that we want to highlight is that the road manager rents out road space to an operator that builds the infrastructure and makes money selling electricity to the transport companies operating the road. To speed up electrification, the E6 between Oslo and Copenhagen can be used as a large-scale test path for this model. In this debate, I have chosen to focus on electrification, as it is the fastest and best way to reduce CO2 emissions from traffic. However, in addition to these changes, it is important to highlight the positive development that is taking place particularly in some of our major urban areas with car pools, cycling and improved public transport. All this is good, but we have to make sure that the systems we work with work throughout the country. That is why electrification of the fleet of vehicles and our roads is an important measure for everyone to have access to better infrastructure. However, electrification presupposes that we have access to environmentally friendly electricity, but it is another debate that we have to hold in another context. Madam President, I would like We are behind all our motions and reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation no. 1. In addition, I would like to wish everyone a really good national day tomorrow.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-335	Madam President, I would like Before I begin my speech, I would like to say that I am very pleased that we have young people who want to follow the work we are doing in this House. I have an intern named Shanelle Esmaeili who's been with me for two days. It is important for regrowth that young people are interested in politics so that they can come in after us. Madam President, I would like Today we are talking about road and vehicle issues. In 2018, Sweden had 5 1⁄2 million vehicles registered. The growth has been rapid – the number of passenger cars has increased by just over 400 000 or about 10 per cent and trucks by 100,000 or about 20 per cent in just the last six years. The boom has created demand for truck transport, and citizens are better off and choose to buy their own car. Vehicle transport offers a high degree of flexibility. At the same time, the increase in the number of vehicles has led to more emissions from road transport today despite a series of measures to reduce emissions and achieve our climate targets of 70% less emissions than in 2010. We now need to speed up the transition towards more sustainable road transport. Liberals do not want to restrict traffic, but we want to tackle its environmental impact. One way to do that is to allow longer and heavier trucks of 74 tons on a larger part of our road network. Tests have shown that it can reduce emissions by about 10% while reducing the number of road transport benefits road safety. In this respect, it is important to include the individual road network, where the upgrading of the load capacity of heavy goods vehicles is necessary for transport to be able to transport forest material directly from the source, for example. The individual road network is also important for the whole country to live. The road network must be of good standard, and road maintenance must work so that the roads are navigable even in winter. This is important for everyday life to work throughout the country. We must not forget that all roads in Sweden need to be navigable. Madam President, I would like The electrification of the vehicle fleet is the strongest future trend in Sweden in order to achieve our climate goals. The development of vehicle manufacturers worldwide is rapid, and research is ongoing on new, more energy-tight batteries. You also look at new materials to use in the batteries. From a holistic perspective, however, electricity supply is the weak link in time. This requires a powerful expansion of the electricity grid in order for the vehicles to be supplied with electricity. Charging facilities at home and for transport require accessible and reliable electricity. Electric roads for freight transport are now being tested in Sweden and in several places around Europe. The technology has great potential to reduce emissions from long-distance transport. Liberals really believe in electric roads. We also see that the single most important measure in the near future is to start planning for electricity supply to the electric roads. The technology for electric roads will be mature when the supply of electricity is advanced, so it is important that we focus on what is required first. However, if we are to achieve our climate goals, we cannot put all the eggs in the same basket. Among other things, we need to continue to apply the reduction obligation, to examine how we can stimulate the use of ethanol in a transition phase and to monitor hydrogen development. The number of environmental zones also needs to be increased in order to improve the living environment in our cities. Madam President, I would like In addition to climate targets, Sweden's commitment to zero vision is important. No one should die or be seriously injured in traffic. The gradual shift from cars that help the driver to self-driving cars has as its main objective to increase road safety but will affect large parts of society. It is important that we politicians understand the complexity. This is more to influence housing, infrastructure, education, entrepreneurship, the job market, health and long-term care and our economy. For this to become a reality, a first step is needed in policy decisions that ensure that vehicle companies can test their products safely. Sweden has very successful companies in this area, and it is important that they can test at home. Liberals want to see large-scale tests in a real environment so that all social actors, not just vehicle manufacturers, can understand the meaning of self-driving cars. That is why it is important that we test in Sweden. Otherwise, Sweden risks falling behind when it comes to understanding and making full use of the potential of self-driving cars. We therefore believe that the government should urgently return to Parliament with proposals for legislation that allows the use of self-driving vehicles in ordinary traffic. Finally, I would like to mention the importance of Sweden finally implementing an EU directive from 2014 and taking measures to criminalise the manipulation of odometers that take place with a view to lowering or incorrectly indicating the vehicle's kilometre position and for the vehicle's odometer to be checked during inspection and measurement positions to be recorded in the inspection report. This is very important, both for road safety and for us to be able to do the proper tests on these cars during inspection and service, and to be able to be sure that the road gauge position is correct when buying a car. Finally, I would like to say that we in the Liberals are in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning we are only in favour of reservation 4 on self-driving cars.
i-Qo4XGBxGLvYPpHNNjcgn38	Madam President, I would like We are debating today's report TU16 on road and vehicle issues with 86 requests from the general period of exercise. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposals and for reservations to be rejected. The Swedish government has a clear goal: Sweden will be the first fossil-free welfare country. It is about building an equal and sustainable country from Haparanda in the north to Ystad with me down in the south, who takes responsibility for the fact that there will be a bright future for both people and climate. Much of this work needs to be done within the remit of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, and not least in the area we are debating today. The transformation and sustainability of road traffic is important in order to build Sweden as a whole strongly for the future. In many parts of the country, much of the road traffic can be transferred to, for example, railways and shipping. But in other parts of the country, things look different. There the roads are the only way to get around, both for goods and for people who need to get to work, school and leisure activities. We must therefore build the whole country together with sustainable transport so that we can live and live throughout the country, both in urban and rural areas. We Social Democrats are now in government making the greatest historical investment in infrastructure in modern times, and we are really prioritising a sustainable transport policy that both contributes to climate change and strengthens competitiveness. But in order to do this we need to do what Sweden is best at, namely cooperate. In particular, politics and the business community need to hook arms to make the transition faster. We are already seeing industry taking the lead, and there are many good examples of this around the country. The other day I was with my social democratic colleagues in the Transport Committee of ABB in Västerås and heard about their work in this particular area. Madam President, I would like In view of the climate change situation, I would also like to pay particular attention to the work on electric roads, which is part of the report. In Sandviken, the world's first electric road for heavy transport on public roads is tested. In the Arlanda area projects are underway with an electric road between Arlanda and Rosersberg's logistics area. And for me as Lundabo it is gratifying to note that in my own hometown there is another electric road project going on. I have visited the demonstration facility myself and tried to travel, and it is really amazing to be involved in the rapid development of the technology. This also applies, of course, to the work of promoting the development of self-driving vehicles, which is also included in the report and which has been and is something that the government and we in the Committee on Transport are following carefully. Madam President, I would like That is why we must politically promote further development and not, at this stage, lock ourselves in to individual solutions at an early stage. Electric roads and self-driving vehicles will not solve the whole climate challenge but are important pieces of the puzzle. It is about taking advantage of the innovations that electrification and automation bring. Madam President, I would like With regard to the part of the report relating to a fossil-free vehicle fleet, I would like to highlight what the Government has agreed in the framework of the January agreement that, from 2030, it will not be allowed to sell new petrol and diesel cars, while the same issue will be pursued at European level. At the same time, the Government is working to make fossil-free charging and refuelling possible through the expansion of the infrastructure and through investments in biogas production and distribution. This is important. At the same time, the latest report by the Climate Policy Council points out that we need to extend the toolbox even more with measures to achieve our objectives. But above all, the Council says that we need to speed up – it is serious. Madam President, I would like Another important perspective with regard to the climate threat and Sweden's competitiveness is the work on the national good strategy, which the Red-Green Government delivered during the last term of office, and also the higher bearing strength class, 74 tonnes, which has now been made possible. The possibility of 74 tonnes is good for industry and good for climate and the environment. It should promote road safety, and it should not jeopardise future values relating to sustainability and bearing capacity. I would therefore like to emphasise in particular the importance of the funds allocated by the government, as much as 10 billion in national plans to strengthen the road network and cope with higher load-bearing capacity. I would also like to mention the approximately 66 million that the government has invested in individual ways through state subsidies. They are crucial for strengthening the road network throughout Sweden. The January agreement, which I have just mentioned, contains a heading which reads: There it is particularly highlighted that road maintenance, with a particular focus on bearing capacity and frost securing, should be reinforced. That is a clear direction for the work of the government, and I am proud of that. Madam President, I would like We in the Social Democrats and the Green Party have a special opinion in this report, and I would therefore like to set out our views in that opinion. This concerns the question of manipulation of metering positions. The Social Democrats obviously believe that vehicle buyers should be protected from being deceived and misled in the face of a purchase of vehicles. Order and order shall apply! However, we are critical of the very rapid process being pursued by other parties in committee without the ambition of getting a comprehensive picture of the problem, with the risk of directing sharp views and announcements about measures that we do not know for sure getting to the problem. We Social Democrats are keen that the basic problem be addressed and that we deal with the work seriously. We have therefore pointed out the importance of a broader approach that is not just based on legislation, as legislation can only be considered as one of several possible measures. Moreover, legislation is not necessarily the fastest way to address the problem. We also point out in our opinion that, if legislation is to be prioritised, thorough investigation and careful consideration are needed. In particular, it is important to review levels of sanctions. We regret that our will and ambition to have a broader approach that does not close the door to measures other than criminalisation has not been welcomed by the majority of committees. I note, however, that in the final product, the text of the committee, much has changed since the start of the process, which I see as a sign that the efforts of the Social Democrats and the Green Party have nevertheless had some effect in proper preparation. Madam President, I would like Finally, we have a major task ahead of us in continuing to reduce climate emissions, in ensuring that everyone is helped together, that responsibility is not placed on the individual, but that we take joint responsibility. Despite the fact that the task is great, we have to do it. We Social Democrats have a policy that takes responsibility for the climate, industry, competitiveness, jobs and road safety, and not least for the whole of Sweden to live, and that is very important.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-370	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Elin Gustafsson regarding the manipulation of odometers in cars. This is not only a Swedish problem, but also the European Parliament has called on the Member States to act against deliberately cheating by screwing back road gauges in cars. I and a number of other Members of Parliament have addressed us to the minister responsible and asked him to act. We have then received the answer that he does not intend to take any action here and now. We in the committee are now calling on the government to do two things. One is that when inspecting a car, data on the odometer should be entered and compared with previous inspection. This was the order until 20 May last year when the regulations for the Swedish Transport Agency were amended to remove the requirement to compare the metering position. Now we are saying that this must be reintroduced. The second is that we want it to be forbidden to deliberately manipulate metering positions in cars. Then Elin Gustafsson says that these are measures that do not get to the problem. I should like to ask her: do the Social Democrats really mean that, by calling for inspection and for it to be prohibited to knowingly manipulate odometers, they do not get to the problem? What are the Social Democrats' proposals to remedy this here and now?
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-374	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! I thought I was clear in my speech, and our position is also reflected in the particular opinion that we have attached to the matter. We Social Democrats, like Jens Holm, want to get to the basic problem. On the other hand, we are critical of the rapid process, which has been speeded up by the committee. We do not see that it has had the serious treatment that we would have liked to see in order to be able to really understand this and to look thoroughly at what measures need to be taken. We see that legislation is only one way to go. We welcome, as I concluded my speech by saying, that there has been a change and a development of the wording that the committee has chosen to use, but we still believe that it could have been a better process because we could really be sure that we can now get to grips with this. Previously, it has been possible to control metering positions, among other things. We have also received a report in committee that this was not previously used or had the effect that was intended. The minister responsible, Tomas Eneroth, has also been in committee and has presented that there are a number of different measures that need to be looked at. Jens Holm, I and the rest of the Social Democrats agree that this is an important issue. That is also why we support this. However, in our particular opinion we describe that we think we could have reached even further if we had had a more serious approach to the issue.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-378	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that it is a united committee that is now calling for the government to act against the widespread fraud involving the manipulation of road gauges in cars. However, I still do not quite understand what the Social Democrats further, or rather what we in committee propose, think should be done to tackle this problem here and now. There can be as many as 100,000 cars just here in Sweden rolling with false data. The inspection shall collect the information and compare it against previous checks. This was done before until May 2018 when the Swedish Transport Agency received new regulations. It's during this government's time. We in the committee have spoken to the inspection industry, and they say that this can be done very well. They want to collect these data and compare them with previous data. Why do the Social Democrats not think this is a good proposal? And why should it not be forbidden to deliberately manipulate odometers? Now the Social Democrats are behind this, and that is good, but I think it is a little strange that they do not want us in Parliament to act when the government does not? Shouldn't we be acting from Parliament here?
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-382	Madam President, I would like Perhaps it can stand to repeat what I just said in my speech. I said, "Of course, the Social Democrats believe that vehicle buyers should be protected from being deceived and misled in the face of a purchase of vehicles." Order and order shall apply! That is why we support this. We also think that order and proper and serious handling is important in the preparation of a matter. We see that we might have been able to reach even further and get better results if we had had a better handling of the matter. So this is what we are pressing for when we say that we need to hear more actors. For example, we have not heard the views of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on these issues. We see that legislation is one of several measures to tackle this. This is a difficult and complex issue, which both the industry and the minister responsible have highlighted. We fully agree with Jens Holm on the subject. We support this. I do not think that Jens Holm needs to make it appear that we Social Democrats would not be in favour of order on this issue or would not be in favour of overcoming this problem. Nor is it true to say that the government or the minister responsible would not want to overcome this. This has certainly not been the case, but the minister responsible, we Social Democrats in committee and I have been clear here today. Order and order should apply, and one should not be misled. It must, however, be a serious management of the process, and we see that it could have been much better if it had been given a little longer time to look at all the options and ways forward.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-389	Madam President, I would like I have a rather brief question for Mr Gustafsson. We have talked a lot about cheating in today's debate, both in terms of the haulage industry and manipulated metering. I'll stick to the cheating in the transport industry. On Monday, I met a trucker who had sold more than 30 vehicles. He cannot operate because he is exposed to illegal competition. Elin Gustafsson spoke warmly in his speech that we should become the first fossil-free welfare state. But both in Sweden and in Norway we have a situation where you take in other fuel than MK1 diesel and build up transport operations with foreign vehicles and fuel depots, mobile workshops and mobile tyre workshops in the sense of being able to drive unhealthy competition. How is it supposed to meet the goal of becoming the first fossil-free welfare state when opening the door for rogue companies to carry out transport activities in Sweden? I have no evidence that there are boat deliveries with ugly diesel in Sweden. But I have evidence that it is going on in Norway, because I had to report it to myself in the big room on Monday. There boats call the ports to deliver fuel outside the system.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-396	Madam President, I would like I thank Thomas Morell for the question. Thomas Morell said earlier in his speech that the political leadership is on its hands. In the field of road traffic management, professional traffic and so on, the Red-Green Government has certainly not been on its hands. We have taken great care of the order that Thomas Morell often demands. But instead of just asking, we have acted. We have worked hard with Tomas Eneroth as the responsible minister both inside and outside Sweden to get to the illegal transports in Sweden. As far as emissions are concerned, of course, many measures are needed. Foreign transport must be involved in paying for the emissions they make. It is also part of the international discussion on order that we should keep track of which transports and vehicles enter our country. The Social Democrats have certainly not sat on their hands here but delivered, and we will continue to do so because this is very important. Thomas Morell seems to be turning not only for order but for Sweden to become a fossil-free welfare country. If the Swedish Democrats are now behind this, I am very interested in how you intend to achieve it. The Swedish Democrats have neither delivered in terms of order nor reduced climate emissions, so Thomas Morell is happy to develop this.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-401	Madam President, I would like I thank Elin Gustafsson for his answer. The fact that the Swedish democrats have not delivered is because we are not in a government position. So the answer to that question is simple. As far as order and order are concerned, the legislation has been tightened up. The problem, however, is that there is no one out on the asphalt that can do the job. Here the government has a great responsibility because it does not staff the control activities so that we can get to grips with this. This opens the door to illegal activity. Mobile workshops and tyre workshops can be built and fuel smuggled into mobile tank depots. There's fuel floating outside our system that we don't have control of and we don't get any tax money on. This supports illegal transport activities. My question is very simple: what are you going to do to stop this? Just writing legal texts is not enough. You have to make sure there's someone who carries out the toolbox and gets the job done. I'm very curious what you're going to do here.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-406	Madam President, I would like I thank Thomas Morell for the question. I repeat: if it is somewhere that the Social Democrats in government, led by Tomas Eneroth, have really acted and delivered, it is precisely in the area of order and order in traffic. We're not going to debate the police today. However, I know that Thomas Morell often highlights this issue, and many measures, initiatives and professional groups are needed in order for us to monitor and follow up the work that is being done. Here the government delivers time after time. Not only do we produce legal texts, as Thomas Morell says, but we are also delivering concrete changes in reality so that the whole of the transport sector can be orderly so that climate emissions can be reduced and the whole country can be built together. Many measures are needed, and let me emphasise that the government is certainly not on its hands. We never have. Not only do we produce legal text, but we create a real change for a sustainable Sweden that stays together – unlike the Swedish Democrats, who neither take climate responsibility nor stand up for order in traffic. Thomas Morell should instead tell us how the Swedish Democrats view this, because the way forward for the Social Democrats is clear. We must take responsibility for the climate and the environment as well as order and order, and we do and we shall continue to do so.
i-1cf16027b3f0a3b8-412	Madam President, I would like The transport sector's emissions account for about one third of Sweden's greenhouse gas emissions. If we fail to reverse the emissions curves and significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, we will not achieve the Paris Agreement's objective of keeping the temperature increase well below two degrees and preferably below one and a half degrees, which will have disastrous consequences. The transport sector is the main challenge in turning to fossil freedom. The government has set an ambitious target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport by 70% by 2030. Road traffic accounts for over 90 per cent of the emissions of domestic transport. A major change is needed here. When we talk about the conversion, it is sometimes broken down to the behavior, the fuel and the car, and I will treat them each one. An important part of changing the transport sector is breaking our car dependency and making us change our behaviour. The car remains a strong norm, although this standard is being broken. More people need to choose to transport by public transport and bicycle. This applies mainly in our cities and urban areas where there are good opportunities to choose public transport and bicycle. It is therefore very positive that the urban environment agreements are permanent with 1 billion per year. They lead to important investments in public transport infrastructure and cycling in our cities. The reason why we need to reduce our driving is both the emissions generated by the car and the congestion to which it contributes. In many places, however, the car has an important role and cannot easily be replaced by other modes of transport. That's why the car needs to be fossil-free. The Green Party's policy aims to change the transport sector so that we are independent of fossil fuels. By investing in bonuses – malus, we work for a conversion of the vehicle fleet, with a bonus for those who buy a new car and then choose a climate-smart car and with an increased tax – malus – for those who choose a fuel-thirsty car that is bad for the climate. However, the new cars represent only a small part of the total fleet of vehicles. Through the reduction obligation, we ensure that anyone who is not able to switch to a fossil-free car today is still in the transition. Slowly but surely biofuels are increasingly mixed into the fuel. The Green Party wants a final year for the sale of fossil fuels, and we believe that the last drop of fossil fuel will be sold by 2030. It is the fuel itself, not the engine itself, that is the problem, and that is why we have chosen to target our policy on fossil fuels. As you know, an internal combustion engine can be run on biofuels. The January agreement states that a reduction obligation should be designed to help achieve the national target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport by 70% by 2030. At a control station carried out in 2019, progressively increased quota levels shall be tightened for the period beyond 2020. It also states that our own charging and refuelling should be made possible by expanding the infrastructure and investing in biogas production and distribution. This is important for us to get more people to drive electric cars but also with biofuels. Climate change has been an important support for the number of charging points to be expanded. Earlier in the debate, the tax on petrol and diesel was raised as too high by the Moderates. Although there has been a separate debate on this issue, I would still like to mention it. I fully understand that the price of fuel is felt by many in society. However, taking into account the fact that vehicles have become more fuel-efficient and the development of our disposable income, driving today is not more expensive than 15 years ago. This is important to remember. It is also important to know that the increase in fuel prices is not due to the taxation of petrol. Since February this year the price of petrol has increased by about 1, 50, from about 15 SEK to about 16, 50. However, no part of the rise is due to increased fuel tax, but it is due to the world market price of oil and the exchange rate. The recent rise in oil prices can be attributed, among other things, to the decline in the supply of Venezuela, Libya and Opec. Through increased electrification and increased production of domestic biofuels, such as biogas, we can both reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and reduce our sensitivity to world market fluctuations in the price of oil. We need a policy aimed at breaking our fossil dependence. The electric vehicles are now coming strong and together with vehicles that run on biofuels, not least biogas, constitute the fossil-free future of the car. Cars are also becoming more automated and connected to varying degrees, as has been mentioned earlier in the debate. It is an interesting development that has potential, not least for different types of support for increased safety and to enable public transport solutions in rural areas. However, it is important to understand that a car that is automated still takes as much space and draws energy in the same way as a car that is driven by the one that rides. The EU's approach to connected and automated vehicles highlights the risk that the demand for driving will increase with automation, which can lead to more emissions and congestion in our cities. There are also several ethical challenges to take into account in the decision-making and responsibility issues of automated cars. It is therefore important that we look soberly at the potential of technological development but also take into account any problems it may cause. Madam President, I would like Given that the issue of high-speed trains was also raised here earlier by Sten Bergheden, I would like to stress the need for new high-speed rail lines. They form a backbone in a fossil-free and climate-smart travel. The lack of capacity on the railways is felt by all of us, and new tracks are therefore needed. And as we build new tracks, it is a matter of course to build rails for modern trains that can go really fast and offer attractive travel times so that more people choose to travel by train. I would also like to comment on the question of metering, which has been an important part of the debate. It is, of course, important, not least from the point of view of consumer law, to address this issue. And it goes without saying that it should not be allowed to manipulate the metering position and thus deceive the buyer of a second-hand car. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that fossil-free transport is a crucial issue in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. We need to work both with the behavior as well as with the car and the fuel to succeed. A fossil-free and fossil-independent society gives us better climate and air quality but also more attractive cities. There's no reason to hesitate: that's where we're going. I support the committee's proposal.
