i-70d77f097e75f6a6-0	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to start by apologizing. I'd misunderstood the time. Johan Hultberg has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the health and living conditions of young LGBT people are improved and whether it is my view that research in this area should be expanded. I share Johan Hultberg's problem description in terms of health and living conditions among young LGBTQ people. The report from the Swedish Research Council for Health, Working Life and Welfare, Forte, is important because it shows the need for increased awareness of young LGBTQ people's exposure to risk factors and ill health. The report also points to knowledge gaps and challenges for research. If research in the field of health and living conditions among young LGBTQ people should be expanded, it is difficult to answer. The area is urgent, but an analysis is needed to tell if more knowledge is needed. The Government's parliamentary objectives in public health policy are to create social conditions for good and equal health throughout the population and to close the real health gaps within a generation. The objective of health policy is to provide the population with well-targeted and efficient health care of good quality. Such care should be equal, equal and accessible. Equal care means that everyone should be offered care based on needs, on equal terms and with good treatment regardless of gender, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, ethnicity, religion or other belief, disability, age, place of residence, education and economics. These objectives are an important starting point for improving the health and living conditions of young LGBTQ people. It is important that the work on LGBTQ people's rights takes place in the long term. The Government's strategy for equal rights and opportunities regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression aims to strengthen the work for LGBTQ people's situation in Sweden. The strategy provides the framework for long-term and results-oriented work. A number of focus areas have been identified, and strategic authorities have been appointed to create the conditions for increased knowledge and equal treatment. One focus area is health, health care and social services, where, among other things, the importance of conditions and opportunities to achieve good health is lifted. One of the conclusions of the report (SOU 2017:92) on strengthening the status and living conditions of trans-humans is that work to improve the living conditions of trans-humans needs to be strengthened on a structural level with clarification of responsibilities and mandates to authorities. The report has been referred and prepared in the Government Office.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Let me begin by saying that the time for the debate has been set by the Minister. Enough about that. We know that mental illness is a serious and growing problem, not least among young people and especially among young LGBT people. They are particularly vulnerable and are at a high risk of mental illness in the form of depression, in the form of psychosis– yes, in the form of most, unfortunately, not least suicidal behaviour. The report from Forte, which forms the basis of my interpellation, points to the fact that the research is quite clear about the major health challenges that exist for the LGBT people group, that health – including public health, not only mental – is worse as well as that the ability to function is often impaired in these people. It is associated with, for example, sleeping problems, headaches, migraines and stomach and bowel problems. The results of research, which are largely international, are, to say the least, alarming. Swedish studies have also shown that gay and bisexual men and bisexual women have twice as high a risk of impaired mental health as people with other sexual orientations. Otherwise, the problem is to a large extent that research has been conducted in North America or elsewhere in the world and has not been based on Swedish conditions. This is something Forte points to in her report. There are major gaps in knowledge, not least when it comes to how it is in Sweden. We know that population attitudes, discrimination, health and school legislation and much more affect the health of this group. Forte points out that there are major gaps in knowledge that need to be plugged. Mr President, I would like to I think it is a bit strange when the Minister notes that there are major gaps in knowledge but then asks whether there is a need for more knowledge. A research council has thus pointed out serious knowledge gaps and that these gaps make it difficult to carry out good work. If we do not know what the problems and their causes are and what methods best to use to remedy the problems, it is of course, however good will one has, difficult to carry out a good job. It is not just this report that has pointed to shortcomings. We also have a report from the Swedish Public Health Agency last year, which looks at the methods for preventing ill health and promoting good health. The report also concludes that there is a need for more knowledge based on Swedish conditions and the continued development of working methods based on a stable scientific basis. I must therefore ask the Minister, Mr President, whether the government does not think there are major gaps in knowledge that need to be closed. I can agree with the Minister that it needs to be further analysed if more research is needed or if it may often be enough to develop the surveys that the Public Health Agency is conducting. These are some of the recommendations made in Forte's report: to include questions about LGBT identity when doing population surveys, health surveys in school and working life and so on, in order to gain a better knowledge base. However, does the Minister not conclude that knowledge gaps are a problem, that those gaps should be addressed and that the government has a responsibility for this?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-14	Mr President, I would like to Of course, mental illness, such as the public health problem and the public health challenge, is something we need to learn more about. We need to become more knowledgeable when it comes to mental illness in general. As I said in my reply, the LGBT Group is particularly affected by both mental illness and consequences such as suicide. However, as I understand it, the interpeller Johan Hultberg's question is whether more research is needed. Nevertheless, I continue to be a little cautious as to the way in which we acquire the knowledge. We need to do this in many different ways. It is, of course, about the work of the Public Health Agency. They have looked at and follow the question of what health looks like. Especially among transgender people, it is not only that one sees no improvement, but one sees a continued deterioration in their situation. The question is both about the state of knowledge and how to act, not just in the healthcare sector. I feel, even after this short period of time as responsible for health care, that mental illness is all too often dealt with only as a health issue. It is, of course, a social challenge to think about and acquire knowledge of. We must act in a way that prevents mental illness both generally and specifically in those groups that are particularly vulnerable and affected. Having said that, I would like to thank you very much for raising the issue. Mental ill health needs to be lifted from many different aspects. I believe that this is the major public health problem of our time and therefore also one of perhaps the biggest political challenges we face. It is certainly not simple, precisely because it is so thorough; we can see it in all walks of life, sectors, professions and ages. So it is a real challenge. I am well aware that the LGBTQ group is particularly affected and vulnerable. We have the question of research and knowledge, but we have also been aware for quite some time that it is a question of prejudice, discrimination, a stigma and actually not feeling that you get rights in the same way as everyone else. Many important efforts have been made over the years. It has been about standing up for the equal value and rights of all people in areas that affect precisely LGBTQ people. This applies to everything from the right to marry and adopt children to issues that were dealt with during the last term of office, such as removing the sterilisation requirement. So there are many issues that we know we need to deal with, where much is done and more is to be done. Knowledge is needed. Research is certainly also needed, but I want to be a little more cautious about how much political governance we should have on very specific research issues. Research funds exist, and there is also an interest in research – the question is what political governance looks like. Our approach to research is to be free and competitive. It should also have an impact, a result simply, and be important in terms of how society can receive that result.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-22	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for developing the answer. The Minister is raising a very important area, namely prevention. We fully agree that this is essential. The absolute best thing we can do, of course, is to prevent people from suffering ill health and take various measures not only to prevent ill health but also to promote health, which unfortunately is often forgotten. Then it is, I think, a problem that the Public Health Agency notes that we have too little knowledge of which methods are effective and actually yield results in terms of preventing ill health and promoting health. I respect, and actually share, the Minister's view that we should be careful to steer research politically. Unfortunately, there are many examples in Europe of governments going the other way. However, the authorities are governed by the government, and I think it would be appropriate for the Minister, for example in regulatory letters, to commission the Public Health Authority to work better to monitor the health status of LGBT people and also to extend assignments to a wide range of relevant authorities. The Minister is also right to say that this is certainly not just a health issue but something that a wide range of authorities and social actors have to work with. We Moderates, for example, want to strengthen student health. We want to review the school law to ensure that all children really get the pupil health they are entitled to. It is very important to catch up early on those children and young people who feel bad. The research is clear when it comes to LGBT people is that ill health starts early. We also know that these people are often more likely to be exposed to crime. An important question, of course, is also what the police have for knowledge and tools and how they work with hate crimes and other things. A very frightening figure is that one in five young homosexuals or bisexuals has indicated that they have been subjected to physical violence by a loved one. This also underlines the importance of, for example, connecting social services so that they can take early action. So we need to strengthen social services, something about which I and the Minister had a debate just a few days ago. A wide range of actions is therefore needed. I note that the Alliance took important steps to raise these issues. It was the Alliance that launched the first LGBTQ strategy. Now I see that this strategy may need to be developed and that the government needs to take new steps to take the work forward. Important steps could, I believe, be to give the task of increasing the level of knowledge in order to close the gaps and simply develop a better both preventive and therapeutic work. Then, of course, reforms are needed to make healthcare more accessible, for example. Unfortunately, during the time of the Red-Green Government, care queues have doubled, and the queues for child and youth psychiatry have even tripled. This strikes hard on this group, which is in particular need of help and support from child and youth psychiatry. It is therefore important that we get a new queue billion in place, which can once again focus on accessibility issues and ensure that queues can be shortened and accessibility to Swedish healthcare improved. I appeal to the Minister to take the initiative to improve the state of knowledge, without going in and directing the exact distribution of research funds or other things, and, of course, addressing the major structural problems that exist with regard to accessible health care.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-30	Mr President, I would like to The issue is now being broadened to include health care and queues. It can certainly deserve its own interpellation debates. I just hope that no one in this House, in the gallery or anywhere around our 21 regions believes that a cue billion will solve the challenges that healthcare faces in terms of increasing accessibility. If it were that simple, I would assume that the politicians in our 21 regions would already have created those incentives. This is complex. The January agreement, which is an agreement between the government parties, the Centre Party and the Liberals, includes an updated cue billion as a part, but I would remind Johan Hultberg that the cue billion as it was originally had its obvious disadvantages. It came to turn the care so that it didn't always happen as needed and also, unfortunately, came to sometimes steer a little too much to the first visit rather than to those who have recurring needs. And recurring needs can really be imagined that this group has. Mental illness is not about getting a time and a meeting and then a diagnosis and a medicine, but it is often about frequent visits. Not least, early visits are very important. Having said that, however, I would also like to say that what concerns this target group and everything that concerns mental illness is basically about the fact that we have a functioning welfare society and that together we set aside enough resources, educate people and have the necessary skills. It is also about how we stand up for the equal value of all people. It's not just about the health care system having the resources to face them. Here I am pleased that Johan Hultberg and I, who perhaps appear to be standing on different sides of the political scale to an outsider, still see this as a common concern, because this is about standing up because all people have equal value. It is not uncommon that when we meet different representatives, actors, the media and so on – I am not thinking of any specific – we are struck by the fact that there is an enormous social fixation on how to be. There is a fixation on how girls should be, how boys should be, who to marry and not, who to have children, who has the right to be in some places and so on. That is why it is important that we stand up because not only on paper and in decisions but really have equal value for all people. There I think we have incredibly tough challenges ahead of us, given the society and the time we live in. We see the spread of right-wing extremism across Europe. There is certainly nothing in favour of this group, I would say. It's not often that LGBT people are the ones who get caught the most when right-wing groups grow and when you talk about who should be at home with children and so on. This is an issue in a broad societal debate, where we have the opportunity to play an important role on the basis of our various experiences. The government has a strategy, just as Johan Hultberg says. There is always reason to see whether it needs updating and whether we should have new strategies, but my picture so far is that the strategy has landed quite well. It is always an advantage with long-termism and to stick to strategies so that all the actors who will work with them are well aware of what they mean. I would just like to mention very briefly that it is both a matter of identifying strategic focus areas and identifying the responsible authority. So it is not just an ambition. It is about health, health care and social services, where the Public Health Agency and the National Board of Health have the main responsibility. It's about private and family life. It is about the Government Office and other actors. It is about the cultural area and the National Council for Culture. It is about civil society and so on. There is a wide range of work going on, but of course there is always more to do.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-39	Mr President, I would like to I and the Minister fully agree that the most fundamental thing in this work is to stand up for the equal value of all people and the freedom of the individual to be that person. That is the most fundamental thing in this. The ill-health that affects LGBT people is largely derived from the discrimination they face. They cannot feel secure to the same extent as persons with a different sexual orientation or identity. They are faced with prejudice and so on. This work is crucial. Not least, the school is an important arena where we will prevent insecurity and early meet up with pupil health, which I mentioned in my previous post. I also think it is important that we address suicides better. Suicide is a problem in our society that I think we do not give enough attention at all. It is one of the most common causes of death, not least among young people and among men. More and better prevention is needed here. There is also a need, in my opinion, for more suicide research. I am proud that we in the Moderates have prioritised this area. We have allocated SEK 40 million more in the coming years to suicide prevention and suicide research. We double the grant to the National Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention of Mental Ill Health. I think that work is very important. I share the view that work on these issues needs to be broad and involve many actors, both public and private. However, I note that a great deal of the efforts contained in the current strategy have already been implemented and that efforts are needed to move forward. In this debate, I have highlighted the need for efforts to raise the level of knowledge in order to advance better efforts.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-44	Mr President, I would like to As I have said on a number of occasions already: it is not relevant to compare the budget of a transitional government with a reservation decided by M and KD with the support of SD. However, it will of course be relevant to see what the government will bring in the next four years, when it is possible to make decisions with a political orientation. Let me also say that we have come a long way. You don't have to travel so far in Europe and the rest of the world to see it. We have come a long way, and there are many in the LGBTQ movement who look at Sweden and think: What an opportunity to live a freer life! But we don't think we've come to the finish line. We still have a lot to do, not least when it comes to suicide, mental illness and that many do not feel that they can live wherever they want in the country. You move and live where you feel that it works best, you take the jobs where you feel that you are accepted and so on. It's not okay. Although we have come a long way, there is still much left in the long-term strategy where we are not there at all. That is why I am not saying immediately that we should have a new strategy. But, of course, we will ensure that it is up to date and that our authorities constantly strive for increased knowledge. I would like to say something specific about young LGBT people too. It is very much about the values of schools. It is about working with sex and cohabitation education and about efforts against honour-related violence, oppression and discrimination. It is an enormous breadth in this, where our schools are extremely central. I would like to conclude by reconnecting with the question put by the interpellier: is there any need for more research in this area? As Minister of Social Affairs with a broad responsibility, I often see the need for more research in almost all areas, but I am not sure that the path we are going to take is that I go in and point out what to research on, even if you can see individual challenges. But we need a lot of resources for research and knowledge building.
i-QEKRVxwHRLdBg8jThmcJLw	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan, Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, Minister Anders Ygeman and Minister Åsa Lindhagen. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-50	Madam President, I would like Confidence in Swedish health care is falling. Fewer and fewer people feel that they are receiving treatment on time. Only every other Swedish person understands that care is given on equal terms. Swedes' confidence in health care is falling. Increasing dissatisfaction over waiting times is extremely worrying but hardly surprising. With S and MP in government positions, care queues in just one term have doubled and to the important child and youth psychiatry has even tripled. That's the truth of S and MP's politics. It is the result of the abolition of queue billions. In order to improve accessibility, we Moderates propose a renewed, reinforced and developed performance-based compensation system in the form of queue billions. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs is: when will the government put the patient in the centre instead of waiting room?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-52	Madam President, I would like I thank Johan Hultberg for the question. Healthcare is really something of the backbone of Swedish welfare. There is no one who feels that you want to wait unnecessarily, wait so long that it affects your health and so on. Therefore, one of the government's most important issues is also to ensure greater accessibility and shorten the queues that exist. It looks different across the country. Sometimes it's about specialist care. Sometimes it's about primary care. But accessibility should be increased in general. That is also why one of the most important issues in the January agreement, an agreement between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Centre Party and the Liberals, is to review how the queues should be reduced and how an updated queue billion is to be reintroduced. Many other efforts will also be required. I would like to emphasise that the government and the state can do some, but that the 21 regions and county councils are also extremely important. It is important that they too have this as one of their priorities.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-56	Madam President, I would like It is to be welcomed that the cue billion is included in the January agreement. I take it, of course, that S and MP have come to the realization that it was a huge mistake to abolish queue billions. Thanks to the Swedish Parliament's acceptance of the Moderates' and Christian Democrats' budget, there are already 2 billion dedicated this year to shorten queues in healthcare and improve accessibility. Now it is the responsibility of the Minister of Social Affairs to launch the queue billions. When does such a proposal come?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-58	Madam President, I would like We will do our very best on the government's part, despite the SD-supported M-KD budget decided by the Riksdag, which can hardly be called a solid basis. The challenge for the overall health care system is that a cue billion is not enough, especially not one introduced in the same way as before; we need to have care as needed at the centre. We must keep the chronically ill patients in mind and ensure that we get a cue billion which, along with many other measures, contributes to people receiving accessible care.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-60	Madam President, I would like The national security survey reported by Brå in January this year showed very gloomy figures, both in terms of the extent to which women are victims of crime and in terms of the feeling of not feeling safe during outdoor nighttime stays. Over one in three women is afraid of going out in the evening, and one in three women aged 16 - 24 reported that they were victims of sexual crimes. From 2017 to 2018, there was an increase of as much as 8 per cent in sexual offences. When all parties voted through the consent legislation last year, the Swedish Democrats and the Alliance also chose to issue an announcement to raise the standard punishment for rape from two to three years. The government has said orally that there should be a penalty, but that has not happened. My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. How long will women have to wait to get a penalty for normal rape?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-63	Madam President, I would like I thank Katja Nyberg for a very important question. People's security is extremely central to a society. Perhaps it is one of the most important core tasks for the common and for the judiciary. It is against this background that the current government, like the previous government, has such a focus on tightening penalties. We tightened up some thirty sentences last term of office. But sharp penalties are not enough. It is also necessary to ensure that the criminals are captured and brought to justice. It is against this background that we both strengthen and intend to continue to strengthen police forces and more. The announcement that Katja Nyberg is talking about is currently being prepared in the Government Office. We will, of course, come back to this when it is done.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-66	Madam President, I would like I welcome the fact that the government is now finally taking hold of this and that the tightening up is under way, but given the insecurity felt by women, it is still strange that it has taken such a long time. When can we expect this to come into effect?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-67	Madam President, I would like People's security, not least women's security, is central to us. It is against this background that we have tightened penalties and strengthened the resources of the police and the judiciary and will continue to do so. We're going to hire 10,000 more police officers over the next few years to make sure this is prosecuted. When will this come? It will come when it is properly prepared. I think it is important to do this properly and make sure that it is a law that can be followed.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-70	Madam President, I would like I would like to address Minister Anders Ygeman. My question is: What is the government doing to increase electricity transmission capacity? What is going on, and what can we see further in the field of planning? I ask the question on the basis that there are strong socio-economic and commercial interests in the expansion and strengthening of the electricity grid. There is very strong growth on the renewable electricity generation side today. Wind power is sailing up as the largest production branch. But there are major geographical discrepancies between where production and consumption take place. It is therefore important that we have a system that increases capacity. There, of course, the Swedish power grid will be a main player.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-72	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank Per Åsling for the question. That is, of course, quite right. It is crucial that we can increase transmission capacity from north to south in order to have an efficient electricity grid. Among the main measures we see before us to shorten the time to move from planning to construction is the concession investigation that Elisabet Falemo is currently conducting and which will submit its report to the government before the summer. We are also planning, in line with the energy agreement we have made, to abolish the connection charge for offshore wind power in order to ensure that we increase production capacity in those parts of the country where we have the highest consumption. It is important that we manage to shorten the time between the planned extension of the lines and the time we come in production. Today it may take as long as 10 to 15 years.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-76	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Precisely with bearing on the Swedish power grid and its role, the Swedish National Audit Office carried out a review. A report was produced in 2016 which was subsequently discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. An announcement was made in this Chamber. The point there was that it was important for an independent player to be involved in the socio-economic assessments of network deployment.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-78	Madam President, I would like That's right, just like Per Åsling said. I have great sympathy for the desire to increase the socio-economic efficiency of investing as much in society as power transmission is about. At the same time, I am a little worried that if we add new bodies to try it, we may also have an extension of the time it takes from idea to production. Therefore, we must carefully consider whether it is possible to strengthen socio-economic efficiency while at the same time shortening production and construction times.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-79	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hallengren. While waiting for the go-ahead to give specific immunotherapy with a checkpoint inhibitor in several cancers, public health services send severely ill patients to Aleris Christinakliniken in Stockholm. But it's only about patients who can pay 70 000 kroner a month. They get a specialist care on the advice of their local clinic. The public is not considered to be able to pay for the care yet. But at EU level, the treatment is approved. It opens up for private funding and treatment that is the case at Christinakliniken. It is therefore your own wallet that determines the availability of treatment.
i-Djv7iK6JjHKdpyCns7QkMT	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for the question! Health care in Sweden will be funded jointly, and we will take part of it as necessary. You should feel safe about getting the care you need. The example that Karin Rågsjö describes is not so we want to see Swedish healthcare develop. Since it is specifically the cancer issue that is highlighted, there is reason to point out that Swedish cancer care is still an example. Of course, we are inspired by the countries around us. We're not the first in everything we do. But there is certainly reason to allow cancer care to be a model for other healthcare services with regional cancer centres and standardised care processes. Research is constantly making progress. We know that survival is gradually increasing. People live with chronic cancer and so on. Basically, Swedish cancer care is something to be very proud of. But we can do more, even if the example that Karin Rågsjö mentions should not exist.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-86	Madam President, I would like We have amazing cancer care in Sweden. I very much agree with that. But we also see that inequality is increasing. When you decide which medicine to promote around the county councils, Sweden's municipalities and county councils look at it. The heads of operations at the country's oncology clinics have agreed not to give checkpoint inhibitors until it is decided by SKL. It'll take a pretty long time. At the same time, the health gap between rich and poor is growing. How can we speed up the process, simply?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-89	Madam President, I would like The purpose is for us to have an equivalent cancer care. Regional cancer centres are a means of increasing equivalence. It is important to share the knowledge that exists so that we are in the front line and really embrace the best technology and methods and make sure that they are the ones used around the country. I stress once again that the intention is not that it should work in the way Karin Rågsjö describes. This is precisely why we have regional cancer centres, a long-term strategy and resources to develop both methods and treatments. Those resource supplements continue to make it equal.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-92	Madam President, I would like The person entitled to personal assistance shall receive it. That is what the Prime Minister said when he read out the declaration of government in this House earlier this year. Since autumn 2015, when the historically severe cuts in assistance were initiated by the S-MP-led government, nearly 1,700 people have lost their right to assistance despite having had personal assistance for many years and perhaps their whole lives. Reports from authorities show that, due to current case law, people with extensive disabilities today do not receive the support they need to cope with their everyday lives. Many people and families struggle daily against government to survive. Many together with me wish to clarify what the government means by giving it to the person entitled to personal assistance. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs is therefore: what steps will the Minister of Social Affairs take to ensure that those who have lost their right to assistance in recent years, despite an unaltered need for social assistance, regain their right?
i-FP5E3Gtoq8dfWDjHcu2JG6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland, for the question! We have met a few times in the seats already, and I suppose there will be more such meetings. Knowledge of personal assistance has grown in society. That is a very important question. It involves so many more people than those who actually receive assistance and their families. It is somewhere proof that people should feel safe with the welfare we have. Pia Steensland is well aware that this has happened in so many steps. It's an old law. We need to change that legislation in order to have a different case law. I am pleased that I have been able to present measures in terms of breathing and probe feeding. It was one of the first decisions made by the government as soon as the January agreement was in place. There are such things in the January agreement which are very concrete and clear and which I can mention here today. It is a matter of self-care, narrow parental responsibility and reviewing the headship issue.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-99	Madam President, I would like There are so many people, children, adults and families whose lives have been torn apart in recent years and today. Despite their extensive needs, they do not receive the help they need to lead a dignified life. The bill on probe feeding is long awaited. But it covers only 50 people. We have an emergency situation. My question remains. What urgent measures will the Minister of Social Affairs take to ensure that all those who have lost their assistance regain the right that should be a matter of course based on the intention of the LSS?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-100	Madam President, I would like When it comes to breathing and feeding, Pia Steensland mentions that there are only 50 people. It is in fact all the people, and in this case the child we are talking about, who have great needs where breathing and feeding should be a basis for personal assistance. It's very important to those groups. I am very much in favour of the fact that we have had the opportunity to do this. It is not straightforward how the whole LSS should better respond to the needs of people.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-102	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Hallengren and is about IVO's fees and how they affect people's ability to control their lives when they need home help, assistance, relief service, escorting or other support. The government has decided on such high fees for the permits and the changes in the permits that small enthusiasts now alert that it threatens their entire survival. They're at worst in concu rs. Each change costs SEK 21,000. For example, you may need a new manager when someone retires or gets long - term sick leave. This can be very expensive not least for those people who really need good support. My question to Minister Hallengren is: Does the government believe that SEK 21,000 for every small change is justified?
i-SQYEKb2qjZWjkhy4tezHdQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Nordquist, for the question! The government has no idea of 21 000 crowns. It is important, however, that IVO can carry out an activity. One should feel confident that all those who conduct an activity in the area of such important care are serious actors who manage to run operations that meet the quality requirements that we all jointly set. It's a mission IVO has. They have quite recently also been commissioned to give permission to a number of different actors who have previously only been able to establish themselves and possibly report that they exist. It is important that the work can continue, but exactly how IVO designs its fees we have no idea on the part of the government.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-107	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Hallengren, for your answer! The government has no opinion, says the Government. But the government promised the Riksdag earlier that the fees could be differentiated so that they would be lower for smaller-scale operations. Yet today both large and small businesses pay the same fee, and it is also the same fee for both large and small changes. I believe that this makes it more difficult to create something good, and we already have a lack of support and freedom of choice today. Will the government closely monitor the impact of the fees on vulnerable people?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-109	Madam President, I would like The question was whether the government thought that SEK 21,000 was a reasonable fee. The government has no idea about this, but it is clear that we should follow this issue closely. It is of the utmost importance that supervision works well but, of course, that those responsible for supervision can afford to be involved in IVO's activities. I think that is two starting points that we should have in the future.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-111	Madam President, I would like In the government declaration, Stefan Löfven said not only that the whole country should live but that the whole country should also grow. Those who live sparse must then have the same public service as those who live close to them. In spite of their commercial nature, state-owned companies must be able to respond to this ambition. Postnord, for example, went with major deficits last year. That can't be allowed to continue. At the same time, we were able to read in Piteå-Tidningen in February in a series of articles about the postal distribution in certain parts of Arjeplog municipality. Households in the municipality of southern Arjeplog will begin to receive their mail only three days a week instead of five. The inhabitants of the village of Bellonäs must either move their mailboxes so that they end up in the postman's route 8 kilometres from the home or choose to obtain a post box in the city of 43 kilometres from the home.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-114	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linus Sköld, for a good question! The state companies are quite many, over 40. The basis for the vast majority of them is precisely the whole country. Mailnord should of course be there; there are laws and regulations that regulate this. Vattenfall, the largest state-owned company, has its full base in hydroelectric power. And we know where it is. LKAB, another very successful state-owned company, is mainly located in Malmfälten. I could continue the list: Svenska Spel, Samhall, Systembolaget and others. It is clear that their whole condition for growth is in the whole country. I therefore believe that it is a fundamental part of the business model and thus also the directives that Parliament has that the companies exist throughout the country and that the whole country can grow as well.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-116	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister for Economic Affairs, for your answer. A reasonable public service in rural areas is important not only for those living there but also for the companies that are there. For example, it is important for companies' opportunities to live and grow in rural areas that the post office is distributed on an equal footing throughout the country.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-118	Madam President, I would like Our basic position with regard to these companies, which are both infrastructure companies and large assets for the Swedish people, is that we should continue to own and develop them together. The great danger to what Linus Sköld raises is sometimes blindly ideological ideas about selling off and thus also completely letting go of control of what is so incredibly important for our entire country, whether it is northern or southern Sweden. In this part Linus Sköld can be absolutely sure that we will continue to work to develop this throughout Sweden.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-121	Madam President, I would like Tomorrow is March 8th. For some it's a normal Friday, and for some of us it's a very important Friday. It is International Women's Day tomorrow, and therefore my question goes to Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Lindhagen. The national overall objective of gender equality policy is that women and men should have the same power to shape society and their lives. We can only say that we have a great deal to do. In order for us to achieve this, the government has six interim objectives: an equal distribution of power and influence, economic equality, equal education, equal distribution of unpaid home and care work and equal health. And then there's the sixth sub-goal: Men's violence against women is to end. My question to the Minister for Gender Equality is brief: how is the government going to achieve the sixth objective of ending men's violence against women?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-124	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Hult, for raising these extremely important issues! One of the most important gender issues we have, and one of the biggest societal problems, is violence against women. It's about violence in close relationship, about honor-related violence and oppression and about human trafficking – some of the most vulnerable people we have in our society. We need to take strong action against violence and oppression. There are several parts of the January Agreement, including, among other things, concerning honour-related violence and repression. These are extremely important issues on which we need to take a strong stance. There are also a number of important steps forward that we need to take in the area of violence in close relations. Part of this is to ensure that we have more places in receptions for sexual offenders, which are part of the problem of violence. We also need to strengthen support in sheltered housing and ensure that we have more child-friendly shelters.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-126	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have also noted that there is a great deal in the January agreement, but I can also see that more needs to be done. A group of women who are particularly vulnerable are those who are victims of violence and also dental injuries. You can get teeth knocked out, you can get jaw injuries and you can also get neck injuries. Here we have a tight regulatory framework in terms of compensation. I myself have exercised in this House that we should look at how the compensation system works. Is this a job the government wants to continue working on?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-128	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Hult, for raising women's health! These two objectives are closely linked to national gender equality objectives. It is therefore both a question of women's health and of violence. There is currently no proposal on the government table regarding the specific issues you raise about, for example, dental care. However, it is extremely important that we ensure that gender issues go into all policy areas. They affect women's lives in a very negative way, and it is one of our most important security issues that women should be able to move around in their own home.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-130	I would like to remind you that we are speaking through the President of the House.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-132	Madam President, I would like On 1 January 2017, the government reduced the excise duty on energy for the operation of, among other things, large server halls by as much as 97 per cent down to half a øre per kilowatt hour. Let me say that I think it is very good with reduced taxes. As a result of the decision, it became attractive to establish large data centres and data centres in Sweden. These establishments are not least important in northern Sweden's hinterland. Access to electricity is there, and there is also access to real estate. There is plenty of room to build new, and there are also old properties that you can only move into. In my home country, Västernorrland, many establishments have already taken place and created several new jobs. They may not be that many in number, you might think, but they give quite a lot. Unfortunately, the Swedish Tax Agency has changed this and made it more difficult to get to the establishment.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-135	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jörgen Berglund, for an important question! It is as Jörgen Berglund says, and the purpose was therefore precisely to increase the competitiveness of Sweden. We have access to huge amounts of clean energy and well-established infrastructure, not least for digital services, which means that Sweden is well suited for this. We have since also seen quite a few decisions to make large investments in our country, both in the north and in Mälardalen and in southern Sweden. Later, as Jörgen Berglund says, the Swedish Tax Agency has made the interpretation that those who do not directly conduct the business themselves should not be able to take advantage of this. This is, of course, an interpretation that an authority makes. As a minister, you can't interfere. However, we will follow the issue, because we are very keen to continue to have investments in our country in an activity that is a future activity and that provides jobs and growth in our country.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-137	Madam President, I would like Let me first thank the Minister for Enterprise for answering the question I did not really have time to ask. He understood where I was going, and I really appreciate it. I have a supplementary question. I know it is the IRS that has done this interpretation. But are the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government prepared to look at whether we need to make a change of law to get the Tax Agency to perhaps make a different interpretation?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-139	Madam President, I would like It is always better to try to interpret each other correctly than wrong. This is an issue that we are following in the government to see what the consequences are. I know that some companies that had planned this as a business model have now stalled. But let us remember that, despite this, there is a great deal of investment in our country. It's important to have with you. We will continue to follow the issue, because we are very keen that this sector continues to develop in our country. It's good for the climate, it's good for jobs and it's good for growth.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-143	Madam President, I would like As you know, women dominate the health profession in the public sector, where the psychosocial working environment often fails. Women working in sectors such as home care, health care or care for the elderly often experience great stress and understaffing. A strong sense of duty naturally arises when you do not want to be absent from work because of the workload of your colleagues, while often working with people who do not manage on their own; it can be old and sick. Because of a strong sense of internal responsibility, these women run a high risk of sick leave later when the body and head simply can't cope anymore and you finally go into the wall. This sick leave is liable to be prolonged, which is penalising itself financially both to the individual and to society as a whole.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-146	Madam President, I would like This is a very important issue that has been raised. It is also about the economic power of women. Women are on sick leave to a greater extent. Women are more stressed. Women take greater responsibility for unpaid domestic work, which also contributes to hitting women's health. We need to ensure a more equal distribution of work at home. We also need to work with the work environment in different ways. There has been work going on in the previous government. It is an extremely important issue that has been raised, so that work must continue.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-148	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Equality for his answer. We have been talking about measures and solutions for a long time. This is a well-known problem that has been going on for a long time. I myself often get contacted by people who work in the profession and who suffer because of the difficulties we have. When can they expect a change, given the government's policy today?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-150	Madam President, I would like As far as these issues are concerned, there is no quick fix. But we need to carry out gender equality work in a broad front and in many different ways. Working life is a crucial issue, as the questioner points out, but it is also linked to the situation of women in the home. So we need to work as soon as possible. That's the answer.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-151	Madam President, I would like The stories are many about the health crisis that Sweden is in. A radical reform of Swedish health care is needed. Care needs to be strengthened and improved so that everyone gets the right treatment at the right time. There should be no difference in waiting time and quality of care depending on which county council you live in. The health guarantee must be fulfilled. The care queues, which have grown in recent years, need to be shortened. Everyone should have the right to good care, wherever in the country you live. Health care is one of the issues that the Christian Democrats have given the highest priority. In the Christian Democrats' and Moderates' budget, which was adopted by the Riksdag, we set aside large sums of money to strengthen Swedish health care and reverse developments. Despite the fact that it is now quite a long time ago that this budget was adopted, the regions and county councils have still not received their money. Where's the money, Lena Hallengren?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-154	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. Working for an increasingly better, more accessible and even safer healthcare is an incredibly important matter, both for me and for the Swedish Parliament but also for 21 regions or county councils, as you are now saying, around the country. It is in everyday life that decisions are made that people feel that they are getting better care. It is clear that resources are needed for this. During the last term of office, many billions were added, for example, to be able to employ staff, train staff and undertake skills development efforts. When it comes to the concrete question that Jimmy Loord is asking, one can well have different views if it is a very long time ago that the M-KD budget went through with the support of SD. Of course, not only having resources for something, but also an idea of how to use them, takes some time. Soon the government's Spring Change Budget and Spring Bill will come with a much clearer answer.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-158	Madam President, I would like As a current Member of Parliament and soon to become regional councillor with responsibility for health care in Kalmar County, I am of course anxious that the resources that I as a Christian Democrat have been involved in deciding on here in the day also go to health care in the county councils and regions. I believe that it has now been quite a long time since the budget was adopted, and time passes. Isn't there a reason to speed up the process, Lena Hallengren?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-160	Madam President, I would like The Government continues to prioritise health care. It is about resources and resource supplements in different forms, not least welfare billions. Notifications will be received shortly as to how resources are to be allocated and what an updated queue billion should look like. I hope Jimmy Loord agrees with me when it comes to the flaws that existed in the previous queue billion. I would also like to take this opportunity to use my last few seconds of tallow to welcome Jimmy Loord to a region governed by S, C and L – with great success.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-163	Madam President, I would like About a year ago, the report on effective governance of national digital services in a collaborative administration – long name but important investigation – presented its final report. It was handed over to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. Now it is Anders Ygeman who in the government has responsibility for digitalisation issues, so my question goes to him. The report dealt with the issue of state eID. On the basis of the State's responsibility for basic identification, the investigation suggested that a state eID should be issued in connection with the issuing of State ID cards. How's this investigation going? I don't know. I think it's that important. And how does the Government intend to continue working on the issue of a government ID document that can be used digitally?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-165	Madam President, I would like It is quite right that this was the proposal from the investigation. Since then, however, the 2017 ID card investigation has also been set up to take a more comprehensive approach to how ID cards are issued. It will present its final report to the government during this month, i.e. in March. After that, the idea is that the government should get a collective job both for the usual, 中 manual, and the state identity document, so that we can have a unified way of working for both.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-166	Madam President, I would like That sounds very good. Many people are perplexing about the fact that in Sweden it is the banks that can issue, for example, mobile bank IDs while the state has not stepped into that role. In other countries it is in a different way. This is partly due to the fact that the banks in Sweden have been out early. But it is a good thing that there is work going on and that proposals are coming up soon. Finally, just one question: how does the Government view the possibility and desirability of offering a state e-identification in the future?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-168	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind you that the analogue identity cards in Sweden are also widely issued by banks. But we have the strange order in Sweden that anyone can issue both analogue and digital identity cards. I believe that we should have a state identity document, both by analogy and in the digital world, with a very high level of security. It should also be linked to the e-IDAS Regulation in the EU so that we can identify digitally in all EU Member States.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-169	Madam President, I would like Sveaskog is Sweden's largest land owner and is a state-owned company. Sveaskog receives its commission from us politicians, and according to their own interpretation, the assignment has two main components: a market-oriented and a social-oriented. In terms of the market-oriented part, Sveaskog succeeds by far, but with regard to the community-oriented part of nature conservation, Sveaskog does not succeed very well. Ore forest kingdom in Dalarna is just one example of many where Sveaskog fails nature conservation in favour of production. 23 environmental organisations and nearly 40 000 citizens believe that Sveaskog should raise its natural ambitions, and I am one of them. In the campaign "Our Forest" they demand that Sveaskog receive reduced yield requirements and that all forests with high natural values are protected. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is: will this be implemented?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-172	Madam President, I would like As is well known, with regard to Sveaskog's responsibility, not least for sustainable forestry, it is part of the January agreement that the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals have signed. It will therefore also be the subject of work within the Government Office, and we will come back with proposals. In general terms, let me say that in the case of Sveaskog and the other state-owned companies, it is a requirement to act in an exemplary manner in terms of sustainability. That is a requirement we have for many different reasons. That is right in substance, but we also see it as a very important part of the business model for the future. I do not believe that, in the long run, an activity can be untenable and yet competitive.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-174	Madam President, I would like Sveaskog has an internal requirement to earn at least SEK 1 billion per year, which has led to the conservation of nature being placed in the shade and given priority. Sveaskog has over the years reduced the budget for nature conservation and got rid of competent and committed staff via reorganisations. If Sveaskog really wants to be a role model, why not reorganise where the main assignments that Sveaskog has can be in two parallel organisations.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-175	Madam President, I would like As I said, Sveaskog and Sveaskog's actions and practices are subject to the January agreement, and we will therefore come back with proposals for changes. Let me just say that my image of Sveaskog is that it is a company that acts responsibly. That is not to say that they cannot do more, because they can certainly do so, but I do not really share the view that they are not a label that takes this seriously. They do. It can be improved, of course, but they do.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-178	Madam President, I would like I have the privilege of bringing two young ladies with me this week, Astrid and Sofie from Futura School of International Bergtorp in Täby. They are sitting up in the gallery and, via me, would like to raise a very urgent issue in this House. In today's society, one in ten of all children and young people suffer from mental illness. Those are terrible numbers. Mental illness is a very dangerous condition, and the longer you live with it without receiving care, the worse you get. The goal is that everyone in line for child and youth psychiatry should receive help within 90 days, but that is rarely the goal achieved. It is reported that children and young people in various parts of the country have been waiting for over a year before receiving help. It is serious when care should be the same for everyone, and where you live should not matter.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-181	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. Mental ill-health is one of the most important issues I am dealing with. In addition to the question of queues and how to get more people to train to work in health care, we really need to look at how we should work with mental illness. Of course, it is very important to have children's and young people's mental illness. But I still want to say that this is a social problem. You cannot meet any group, generation or sector of society where mental illness is not too extensive. It's really about taking on this broad. It's a matter for the school. What's it look like? How stressful is the situation? One such thing as subject grades instead of course grades has been discussed and investigated, just to mention one example. I also believe that student health and youth clinics can cooperate more. I believe, above all, that you should be able to feel much earlier that you know where to turn and that you can get help there.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-185	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is an issue raised by Astrid and Sofie, and it comes from their reality and everyday life. There is frustration in both them and, I believe, everyone who lives around, above all, children and young people who suffer from mental illness. They feel despair about not getting professional help on time, and the longer the time passes, the more they tend to suicide or not to handle themselves properly. Children and young people must be given priority.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-187	Madam President, I would like The question was also about BUP. I did not have time for everything in my previous reply, and that is why I want to say that when it comes to child and youth psychiatry you should of course feel that you can turn there. But it would be even better if you felt that it was easier to get in touch with the youth clinic and that there was really help and support to get there so that you don't have to go to specialist care but instead very early should be able to get help – when you feel that you don't feel well and wonder if you really need to feel that way and want to talk to a psychologist or curator.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-188	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Affairs. Today, the increased mental illness of our population is a recurring topic. Inequality in mental health is also an issue that has coloured the debate. Good and equal care requires that we increase our knowledge of differences in mental health. We see clear differences that can be related, for example, to genders where more women suffer from anxiety and depression than men. The statistics also show that men are taking their lives to a greater extent while women are responsible for a higher proportion of suicide attempts. These examples are just a selection of many differences. In this connection, I would like to ask whether the Government can explain which actions are considered to be priorities in order to meet specific needs and conditions in the work to improve mental health in society.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-191	Madam President, I would like One might almost think that Members have settled this so that the discussion can continue. It is clear that mental illness should be an important issue in Parliament's chambers both during Question Time and in other contexts. It is an issue that is not just about health care, and it is not just about whether it is stressful in school, but it is really a societal challenge. I mean it. It is, of course, about how to acquire more knowledge about how it looks and why you feel as you do. There is also a scale, I really want to say, when it comes to mental illness and you don't feel well, simply, when we get to a situation where you have a diagnosis and are at risk of suicide. Clara Aranda is quite right that when it comes to suicide, men are over-represented. It is of course about resources for municipalities, county councils and their ability to cooperate so that it does not matter who you turn to without municipalities and county councils being able to cooperate and collaborate. It is about resources to also be able to ensure that the right skills exist.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-194	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We can see that this is a complex area. In fact, we lack a serious plan, a long-term strategy, which is an absolutely fundamental starting point for the work on mental illness in society. In conclusion, therefore, I wonder whether the government intends to establish a long-term national strategy for mental health work in line with what our former national coordinator has proposed.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-196	Madam President, I would like I hope to come back to the House in many contexts, not least, to talk about this. It is an important part of the January agreement between the government parties, the Centre Party and the Liberals. It is both about ensuring that we have a goal when it comes to a queue for child and youth psychiatry and to investigate a lighter form of care, so that you can get in touch with the care more quickly and easily when you need it in case of mental illness. We need to take a holistic approach to the issue. It is, as I began by saying, a public health challenge.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-199	Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. At the same time, there are areas in Sweden where gender equality is not very widespread at all. These are areas where girls can't go out, can't decide over their own bodies and can't marry whoever they want. To raise the problem of honour cults has been associated for several years in the public debate with being called racist, xenophobic or fishing in cloudy waters. For this, the left parties in particular have a special responsibility. Tomorrow is March 8th. The focus of Swedish gender equality policy must be to ensure that all of Sweden's women get access to the gender equality that has made Sweden one of the world's most equal countries.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-203	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for highlighting these extremely important issues. It's basically very simple. It is about human rights and children's rights to apply to everyone in this country – point. These issues are highlighted in the January agreement. I also feel from my time as a municipal politician that there is a broad consensus on these issues. It's necessary. We need to focus on what we are going to do. That's what we're gonna talk about. I'll tell you a few things we need to do. We need to increase our expertise in honour-related violence and repression, both in school and in social services. A lot has happened in the last ten years. But we need to continue to increase our knowledge of honour-related violence and oppression, how to find young people who are vulnerable and how to provide help and support. We need to make sure there's emergency protection. We also need to ensure that efforts can be made to a greater extent without parental consent. There are other things to say.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-208	Madam President, I would like We have heard reports of schools where there is gender segregation and where swimming education is conducted in full violation of the law. We have also heard of schools run by individuals designated by Säpo for recruitment to violent Islamism. The Green Party and the Social Democrats have been in the government for the last four years and are responsible for this development. How can this happen? Why don't politicians put an end to this? These are questions that I think a lot of people are thinking about. Madam President, I would like When does the Government estimate that all of her now proposed measures will be put in place?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-212	Madam President, I would like I haven't even listed all the measures. I only had time for a few of them. We'll be working as soon as possible. These are very priority issues. Some will take longer. This applies, among other things, to legislative issues. There are longer processes. We want to tighten the penalties for these issues. We need to ensure that those who are at risk of rejection and are victims of crimes of honour are given increased protection. There are other parts you can work with faster. So it looks different. But the issues are very priorities.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-216	Madam President, I would like Sweden as an IT nation has in many ways a position of strength. We are, among other things, an IT mature population. We also have several innovative and competitive companies that have understood that future competitiveness requires changing their business models. We also have companies that are at the forefront of the development of new technologies. However, public Sweden has fallen behind for many years. However, not least through the establishment of the D igitisation Council and the new digitisation agency, the previous government has taken several important steps forward. The government now has a strong evidence base. There are developed strategies. Several authorities have also worked actively and well with their own business development. The next step must result in action. My question to the Minister for Digitalization is therefore: how do you view the possibilities and the need for a cross-block digitisation agreement, similar to the energy and defence agreements?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-220	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Joakim Järrebring for the question. I am passionate about driving digitalization, both in the public and private sectors. However, I believe that the defence agreement and the energy agreement differ from the area of digitalisation in that digitalisation is in strong development. As a result, the need for long-term agreements in the area of digitalisation is weaker than in the area of energy, for example. Technology development is so fast that if you today come up with a technology that you want to use in ten years' time, it will probably be completely obsolete. On the other hand, the government is firmly convinced to work together with the entire decent part of the Riksdag to develop Swedish digitisation policy and thereby benefit from all the expertise gathered in the various parties in the Riksdag.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-223	Madam President, I would like Involuntary loneliness is a strain for everyone, perhaps most of all for the elderly. Many older ones have suffered the death of their peers. They suffer from disease, and association decreases. You become more lonely and can feel trapped in your own home. But there are not adapted accommodations or they are too expensive to find. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare's survey, 55 percent of the elderly reported feeling depressed, that is, anxiety and loneliness. On this basis, Parliament adopted the KD-M budget. There we set aside SEK 20 million a year to stimulate the non-profit sector to engage. My question to Minister Lena Hallengren is: Have the 20 million been made searchable for the non-profit sector?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-226	Madam President, I would like I would really like to thank Michael Anefur for raising the issue of loneliness. I feel that this is an issue that sometimes pops up. Then everybody's talking about it. But then there are so many other things that are important to talk about, and then we do. I see it as one of my important issues to really take it seriously. There has been a lot about mental illness before here in Question Time. This is an example of a group that suffers only because of loneliness from mental illness, with all that that entails. That's why we have meeting points. That is why pensioner organisations are important. That's why they run joint projects to simply be able to contact and be available to the elderly who so need. We shall, of course, ensure that the resources made available to this group become searchable.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-230	Madam President, I would like Boats, communities, trains, cars, harbour cranes, forklifts, ESS and MAX labs – the list of conversions of electricity can be made long. Society changes, with Skåne as an example. According to the Energi Agreement, the target is 100 percent renewable electricity by 2040 and that cogeneration and fossil fuels should be phased out. The big cities do this, Malmö to 2025, Stockholm to 2022 and Gothenburg to 2030. Now there are signs that the green tax exchange in the January agreement will lead to a significant increase in taxes. It will affect companies that are reassigning. Then we might also get rid of what we are supposed to have in the short time, as it will not be profitable to operate a combined heat and power plant even to 2025 in Malmö. There's already a lack of effect going on. I would like to ask Minister Ygeman whether the performances and the people of South Sweden and Sweden need to be concerned that this will happen.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-234	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson for the question. No, that's the short answer. We in Sweden have an agreement between five parties, which surrounds a large part of the Swedish parliament, on a stable energy policy. It will ensure both that we have security of supply and competitive electricity and energy prices and that we will manage the green transition ahead of us. It is also important that we manage to make a transition in our cogeneration plants, so that we leave the fossil fuels behind and move towards renewable energy. Together, we will push forward this development – our two parties and the other three parties in the Energy Agreement.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-238	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Gender Equality. Only in 2040 will we have an equal take-out of parental insurance. This can be seen in the TCO Gender Equality Index, which was presented this week. It concerns the care of sick children and parental allowance. In politics, 20 years on various issues may be a rather short time, but this is about several generations of parents. It is also about inequality that can persecute us for the rest of this century in such things as retirement, ill health and place on the labour market. The trend towards a more even outlet has accelerated. In my own county, Norrbotten, we have for the past ten years made a good journey from being very bad to now being among the best counties in the country.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-242	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this extremely important issue of equality. We need a more equal take-out of parental insurance. This is in different ways linked to women's health. Women take greater responsibility at home to vacuum, remove the dishwasher and pack their children's gym bags. All these parts create stress and increased sick leave in women. We need a more equal take-out of parental insurance. Political reforms are needed. There's an investigation into parental insurance that we need to get back to. On the one hand, everyone in society needs to contribute in different ways. Many talented employers in Sweden today give a very positive attitude to men who want to be at home with their children. This is also a matter of children and fathers. This equality issue is not only about women's health, but also about the relationship between children and fathers, something that we all have to gain from.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-246	Madam President, I would like Cancer queues in Sweden continue to be unreasonably long. Four years after Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats promised that all cancer patients would receive treatment within four weeks, we note that, for example, patients with prostate cancer still have to wait many months for treatment. The fact that the surgical queues have doubled is a major failure.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-248	Madam President, I would like As Katarina Brännström of course knows, there is a difference between parties' electoral promises and what they then promise in government declarations. In 2014 we had a slightly different discussion. That was a lot about the ambition to shorten queues. However, during the last term of office, the government chose not only to say that it would take place within four weeks, but instead to talk about standardised health care processes. This means that sometimes it is more than four weeks, and many times it is less than four weeks. I am just saying this to describe that the level of ambition is very high. It is about having a starting point in the respective cancers and cancer diagnoses. I hope that Katarina Brännström sees all the progress that has been made and also knows how intensive the work is in the field of cancer. It is about increasing survival, being prominent in the various regional cancer centres and how the long-term strategy is gradually translated into practice and action. I think, therefore, that it is somewhat misleading to refer to an election promise.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-253	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. The Swedish innovation climate has long been very strong. In international rankings related to innovation, Sweden has been at the top. But in a recent ranking – Bloomberg – Sweden drops from second to seventh place. An important point that companies raise that can keep them at the top of innovation is that access to the right skills is ensured. This requires training places but also housing, not least rental apartments in metropolitan areas. Here in Stockholm, the Moderates will sell 20 000 rental apartments. In my municipality of Järfälla, the Moderates stop the construction of 3,000 homes. In Danderyd, which has long been moderate, zero housing is currently being completed.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-257	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helene Hellmark Knutsson, for the question! It is correct that Sweden has lost in this survey, which is one in five that has arrived in the last year. In this particular year we lost patents. But just as Helene Hellmark Knutsson says, this is a complex issue. The issues of skills and housing supply are important in particular. Although we can see that Sweden in the European Commission's ranking is one of 28 countries, in the Forbes ranking second of 161 countries and in Cornell University's third of 128 countries, we cannot be satisfied. We must take these signs seriously. I'm worried about what's going on. The government will continue to push for the construction of rental housing, because it is extremely central. We continue with the Knowledge Lift, because the supply of skills is central. But I am genuinely concerned about the ideological entrance to the sale of rental apartments and thus limit the possibilities for companies, not least, to be able to bring skills here where it is lacking.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-261	Madam President, I would like Skåne is facing an acute electrical crisis. The Scanian municipalities are forced to say no to housing construction and the establishment of new companies. In Trelleborg, the Kuststad project is under threat. The electricity connection in the port providing electricity to ferries is also at risk. In Lund, Max IV and ESS require a stable and secure electricity supply. The ongoing electrification of public transport in Malmö, Landskrona, Trelleborg and Ystad also needs access to electricity. However, Swedish power grids have announced that Skåne's electricity problems will be solved at the earliest in 2027. This is a mockery of Scanian electricity consumers, who have paid the price for the closure of Barsebäck and the introduction of the electricity price zones. The cabinets are entitled to a stable and secure electricity supply. What does the government intend to do about this?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-263	Madam President, I would like I think Boriana Åberg slightly confuses the concepts in the discussion. Of course, Skåne will have a stable and secure electricity supply, just like all parts of the country. I am as upset as Boriana Åberg about the electricity grid companies that have made huge profits but have not expanded the electricity grid to the extent that demands can be made. I hope that my party, Boriana Åberg's party and the five other parties in the energy agreement will continue to be able to work forward in order for Sweden to have a safe and stable electricity supply throughout the country, including Skåne, and that we can expand both electricity grids and renewable energy at the required pace.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-266	Madam President, I would like I'd like to talk about some public health. As an old social worker, I see that public health in Sweden is not as equal as we might wish. Where you live, if you have a job and if you have an education plays a crucial role in how your mental and physical health develops. Around Sweden it can actually distinguish up to ten life years between people who have grown up in different environments and neighbourhoods. This problem is not unique to Sweden, but this inequality is a problem that we must tackle.
i-12KgwHvYpYZVfPUhJcR9aJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Wiking, for the question! We have dealt on several occasions with the issue of public health. There is a risk that public health will only result from everything else that we do. That is why we really need to think about it. How do we build up educational activities? How do we think about how we target resources? How are we working, as stated in the January agreement, on tax reform to increase economic equality? We know that things look different in different directions. If you grow up in Stockholm's inner city, you live on average seven to eight years longer than if you grow up in one of the suburbs. We don't want that. This is also the reason why one of the government's aims is to end – as has been described – the real health gaps within a generation. Within a generation, I feel very far away. I'd like to say that. I want us to make efforts here and now, both to reduce inequalities in mental health and in public health at all.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-271	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. I, too, would like to ask a question about mental illness, which is increasing at all ages in society. It is a topical and important issue. Last week, a hearing was held in the Riksdag on mental illness in combination with addiction. Mental ill health was discussed in Agenda, Ekdal and Ekdal and Studio Ett. Many do not get the help they need. The Minister has participated in the hearing and in the media, and she has said that mental illness is a priority. But what does that mean, many people wonder. In what way will the Minister address the issue of this parliamentary term that is different from the previous one? It is important that people do not end up between the chairs but that they get the help they actually need quickly and...
i-4EuVjPt4QWMdjkwg2CSuzC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg, for the question! I would like to thank Anki Ahlberg and the entire Social Affairs Committee for the hearing held last week. It was an urgent matter that was raised. This was brought to light by the attention that the question raised and all the conversations that I received. As far as mental illness is concerned, there are a number of things in the January agreement that I think I have mentioned before. This is about a new form of care in case of mild mental illness. It is also about setting goals and daring to have ambitions for child and youth psychiatry. We need to look at the public health challenge. What is society like? How do we work at workplaces? How does school contribute to reducing mental illness? All of this is important. Let me refer briefly again to the fact that many people end up a little between the chairs, as emerged from the hearing. Sometimes it is the municipality's social services, sometimes it is the region's health care. It is important to find better ways to interact...
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-277	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Children Åsa Lindhagen. It is about the really topical issue of the Swedish children who are in camps in Syria because they have been associated with adult followers of IS. It is important that the matter be resolved quickly. There must be a clear policy in which we actually take responsibility for Swedish citizens and that we use the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child as a benchmark in the treatment of children. I also think it is necessary to look a little closer at what will happen when the children come here. There must be some sort of coordination between the various institutions. It is already clear that it is unclear what responsibility the municipalities can take and what responsibility the NGOs, Save the Children, the Red Cross and others can take. The same applies to which body should be in contact with UNICEF and the High Commissioner for Refugees when it comes to working on these issues. How should we coordinate the work with Säpo?
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-280	Madam President, I would like These children are in a terrible situation. Right now, we're analysing the situation. It is a complex legal and security situation. Swedish authorities are not able to operate in the area. As far as adults are concerned, Sweden's position is that everyone who has committed terrorist crimes or war crimes should of course be judged. There is no impunity. My colleague, the Minister for the Interior, is today discussing the matter with other EU countries. I very much welcome the fact that Thomas Hammarberg highlights the situation of children. They are in an extremely difficult situation, and it is therefore important that we have the children's perspective on these issues with us.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-284	Madam President, I would like I and many others were amazed and were deeply upset when we took note of Computer Sweden's revelation that 2.7 million calls to 1177 Vårdguiden were open on the internet for all people to take part in and listen to when people tell about their illnesses and personal concerns. The main responsibility for creating the situation lies with the regions that chose to procure the business, including the moderate-controlled Stockholm region.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-287	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Dag Larsson, for the question. The issue really deserves attention in the Swedish Parliament. There was, to say the least, media attention, and of course a number of people around the country became anxious and concerned and wondered if they could turn to 1177. Just as Dag Larsson described, this is a matter for regions and county councils that jointly organize the service. There were three county councils with their own solution that caused the situation to arise. For me it was important to call to me SKL and interested parties so that I could make sure, and anyone asking me, that you can trust 1177. The answer is yes. I met the parties at the end of last week. It was representatives of SKL, Stockholm County Council and Inera, the corporate form that SKL and the regions have chosen for the service. I feel confident that the necessary steps have been taken to build on the success of 1177.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-292	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. The Diabetes Association has long pushed the issue of increased knowledge about diabetes and that children with diabetes should feel safe when they are in school. Today there is a gap between parents of children with diabetes and educators at school. Parents have long wanted to train educators themselves in childcare and to be given better support to educators who care for diabetic children. It is difficult for parents to give ready-made instructions to educators about how much medicine children should have or how the technical equipment is used. It also takes a lot of time for parents to explain how it works for their children when the staff is replaced or when it is a new academic year.
i-70d77f097e75f6a6-295	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erica Nådin, for a question that I can imagine many feel touched by! More and more people live with diabetes from an early age. Of course, it depends on how diabetes is managed or what disability it is felt to involve. I assume that this important issue is on the agenda of every school management. Care should be taken to ensure that every single child who starts childcare, preschool or school has a working day. If it then provides support for reading-write-counting or if there are other needs, make sure that the staff have the skills needed to meet also children with diabetes. I assume that the issue is on the agenda, but I will take the question with me and thank you very much for it.
