i-15b0e4abe521ec69-2	Madam President, I would like Good morning, everyone! The Swedish municipalities are always the last line of defence against social problems when the state fails. It is municipalities with already large housing shortages that are forced to try to solve housing for new arrivals with very short-term prospects and who are forced to deal with the failed migration and integration policies and provide new arrivals with support when they are not in work. It is municipalities that are allowed to take over responsibility for the unemployed when the government panics to slaughter Arbetsförmedlingen without having any alternative to offer the unemployed. And it is municipalities that have to try to provide security with security guards and other measures when the state legal society fails. The list can be made longer. The K ommunes are always those who represent the basic welfare and try to guarantee the security of their inhabitants. It is also those who, with different support, try to maintain a certain extent of public service when smaller towns are depopulated and urbanisation is going at a raging speed. This responsibility has to be assumed, whether the state is involved in paying for it or not. Today, for many municipalities, the situation is totally untenable. And the situation has deteriorated dramatically since 2015, when today's government took over responsibility. SKL, Sweden's K ommuner and L andsting, reported in a report 2016 how during the reign of the Alliance there was a balance between tax revenue and expenditure for the local government sector and that the local government sector then also reported stable surpluses, even during the crisis years. In recent years, however, imbalances have increased. Today we are debating a change in the cost compensation system between municipalities. That is an important issue. In the long run, however, we do not solve the local government's financial problems simply by moving black elephants around the municipalities and relieving one municipality's financial problems by worsening the economy of another municipality. There is only one long-term sustainable path, and that is that we have good growth throughout the country and that we get more companies and more jobs in the private sector. At the same time, the state must manage its commitments and also provide municipalities with more money to cope with the increasing burden on the economy caused by previous government decisions, including migration. We Moderates have listened to SKL, and we have listened to the country's municipal politicians, regardless of their political colour. In our budget exercise, we contribute significantly more money to the local government sector than the government and cooperation parties do. We will add as much as 7.5 billion to the government's 5 billion next year, and then we will increase the contributions further. We also reduce the detailed management of how municipalities and regions can use the money by reducing the proportion of targeted state subsidies and increasing the overall. This frees up additional resources. At the same time, let us note that it is not enough just to add more money. Local local and regional politicians also have a great responsibility to give clear priority to what is most important. Another issue is efficiency. It is a myth that quality ete n in welfare is determined only by how much money you spend. In an analysis of the newspaper Dagens Samhälle a few years ago, it was shown that the quality and satisfaction of elderly care and home care were completely unconnected to the cost level. It was at least as high a rating for the activities of the municipalities with the lowest cost as for the municipalities with the highest cost. There are many things that municipalities can learn from each other. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a large country with very different conditions. This also applies to our municipalities, which look completely different. Today, for example, the municipal tax differs by up to SEK 6 per hundred between the municipality with the lowest tax and the one with the highest tax. The fact that there is some redistribution of resources between municipalities is therefore very reasonable. What is important is that this is done in a way that creates the confidence and legitimacy of both the municipalities that contribute to the equalisation system and those who benefit from it, as well as that the effects of the equalisation systems do not hit the country's overall growth. The proposed amendments to the Municipal Financial Equalisation Act relate to the part of the compensation system relating to cost equalisation. This is the smaller part of the equalisation system, the most important part of which is the equalisation of income. However, it is still important to update the cost compensation system in order to continue to smooth out the economic conditions between municipalities and county councils in the future. The new system is essentially based on the old one, but with some adjustments in the calculation models in order to make the system more effective. We Moderates believe that the Government's proposal to change the cost compensation system contains some relevant updates, and we are critical of the Government's proposal on essentially four points. Firstly, there are parts of the proposal that have a negative impact on the conditions for growth throughout the country. It is positive that the investigation takes into account the special needs of municipalities in sparsely populated areas. On the other hand, the study does not take into account the specific challenges of big cities and growth municipalities. Secondly, the Moderates are critical of the fact that municipalities are given so little time to adapt to the changes. The legislative amendments, which have not yet been decided, are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2020 – in just over a month's time. The full impact of the proposal was felt only in September of this year and in many cases brought about major changes compared to the figures contained in the report on which the Government's proposal is based. This gives municipalities difficult planning conditions, as the budget process for 2020 is well advanced. Many consultation bodies have also pointed out that the time for adaptation is too short. For example, the Government's own authority SCB estimates that the introduction already on 1 January 2020 cannot take place in a quality-assured manner. Thirdly, municipalities and county councils are not sufficiently compensated for the deterioration of a large number of municipalities as a result of the proposals in the bill. The proposals lead to a significant increase in the system's redistribution. The impact is large and strikes very unevenly, although the government has proposed a special introduction grant to limit the negative impact on individual municipalities and county councils. However, this implementation grant is financed entirely by the municipalities themselves and does not involve additional state resources. Fourthly, the government has chosen not to take a holistic approach to the equalisation system, but to omit the total levelling of income. Income equalisation is by far the most important part and the part where the harmful growth effects of the equalisation system are greatest. Furthermore, the system currently has undesirable marginal effects, for example for municipalities that manage to get people from contributions to work. This too needs to be reviewed. Madam President, I would like We Moderates have four concrete proposals for changes and additions to the government's current proposals. Firstly, we believe that the new legislation should enter into force one year later than is proposed in the bill, on 1 January 2021, i.e. first because the municipalities have already decided on their budgets for next year and do not have a reasonable chance of adjusting their finances with just one month's notice. Secondly, in the period leading up to the entry into force, the Government must adjust the bill so that the cost compensation system does not impair the conditions for municipalities and county councils with rapid population growth. Thirdly, the state's financial support to the municipalities must be increased. The state must provide more money, so that no municipality and no county council will receive a total of less resources as a result of the new cost compensation. The moderates' line is briefly that we accept the improvement for all the municipalities and county councils that benefit from the change but that we want the state to compensate those who lose through increased general state subsidies, and we have put money into our budget for this. Fourthly, a review of the entire countervailing system is needed. This applies not least to how the system affects the conditions for local government growth. The cost equalisation that we are debating now is the small part of the system, and income equalisation is the big, important part. Although this system must be designed in a way that creates legitimacy in both contributing and receiving municipalities and that also takes into account the importance of the country's overall growth. Madam President, I would like In view of the fact that we are fundamentally in favour of many municipalities getting an improvement on the current legislative proposal, but at the same time stating that our four crucial moderate demands have not been taken into account, we will abstain from voting on paragraph 1. At the same time, I am in favour of reservation 2, which relates to our moderate proposals for amendments to the pending legislative proposals. Of course, we are also in favour of reservation 3 on the future design of the municipal equalization system, which we have together with the Communist Democrats, and we do not want to drag out the vote too much, we do not want this reservation to be accepted. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to repeat what I started this speech with. The Swedish municipalities and our welfare will never be secured only by redistributing costs between the municipalities and county councils. A reasonable and legitimate system of equalisation is needed, but just moving black-peckers around between municipalities basically does not solve any problems. The crucial thing is that we get more companies and more jobs in the private sector throughout the country. It is the private sector that, with its tax resources, creates all the resources for well-being and other public activities. This, together with wise municipal politicians who give priority to what is most important, is the key to strong and successful municipalities with a reasonable tax charge. At the same time, the state has a major and important responsibility to carry out its tasks and not to transfer responsibility to the municipalities. Instead, state subsidies need to increase more than the government budget. The government must also ensure that the needs of the whole country are taken into account, and not by its policies, either make life difficult for rural and rural residents or put a brake on our growth municipalities. In addition to a much more growth-friendly policy overall, it is important to have a municipal equalisation system designed in a way that creates legitimacy for both the municipalities that contribute to the system and those that benefit from it. We Moderates really run a policy for all parts of our country and do not want to pit municipalities against each other. We are all part of Sweden.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-28	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that it is nice to be able to make a guest appearance in my old committee, the Finance Committee, especially today when we take such an important decision as that of increasing the levelling-up between municipalities that are cities and municipalities that have a lot of rural areas. The differences in Sweden are precisely the basis for our municipal equalization system. Despite our differences around the country, we will be able to offer equal welfare wherever we live. Unfortunately, Madam President, that is not the case today. The difference between the municipalities where you pay the least in municipal tax and the municipality where you pay the most is today about SEK 6 on a earned hundred. On behalf of the Left Party, Parliament's investigation service has investigated the issue and concluded that the difference between the municipalities with the lowest and the highest municipal taxes over the past decade has increased. The large differences in municipal taxes mean that a nurse who lives in Sollefteå and has an income of SEK 25 000 per month pays about SEK 1 000 more in tax per month compared to a nurse with an equal salary who lives in Österåker. Could it be that some municipalities are simply more efficient or provide more municipal services than others? The simple answer is no. Researcher Lars-Lars-Fredrik Andersson finds that support for this would generally be weak. Therefore, the municipal levelling-up system is needed to smooth out the actual differences that exist. The government's proposal is based on the state inquiry a little more alike. The Left Party believes that the government's proposal is a step in the right direction but that it is not enough. We therefore support the Government's proposal but at the same time have a reservation and a specific opinion. Our opinion is also supported by the Swedish National Audit Office, which believes that greater redistribution is needed within the municipal equalisation system. The Swedish National Audit Office's review shows, among other things, that the system does not fully compensate for all cost differences due to differences in population composition or geographical conditions. Municipalities with a large area, few inhabitants and a small proportion of those living in urban areas are undercompensated in all areas of activity covered by the cost compensation. Of the country's 290 municipalities, 241 are undercompensated, says Riksrevisionen. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the Government's proposal increases the redistribution, but according to their calculations this is not enough to address the large differences in costs caused by large areas, few inhabitants and a small proportion in urban areas. This is a systematic underestimation. This means that the issue of municipal equalisation often becomes a question of city versus rural – the cities do not want to take responsibility for a positive development in Sweden's rural areas. It was no wonder, therefore, that when I sat on the parliamentary rural committee we were looking at just local leveling. The Rural Committee tried to analyse the equalisation system from a rural perspective. What we found in the Committee suggested that the municipal equalisation system was partly based on outdated data and that some things were missing, such as the reception of new arrivals, for which rural areas have taken greater responsibility than cities. The Rural Committee therefore considered, in agreement between all parties, that the municipal equalisation system should be continuously monitored and that political parties should be involved in such follow-up work. The Left Party therefore believes that more needs to be done. Already when the government announced that it would investigate, we criticised the fact that it only chose cost compensation and did not include income compensation. The municipal levelling system consists of two distinct legs. To look at one is not to take overall responsibility, and for the state it is to evade its responsibility to ensure the long-term financing of welfare. The Left Party believes that a parliamentary inquiry should be set up as a matter of urgency and be given the task of unbiased investigation into the entire municipal equalisation system in order to make it fairer. The municipal levelling system should also be reviewed more continuously so that the components of the levelling system are updated and comply with current conditions. That is why the Rural Committee's idea of a more solid parliamentary committee is interesting and something that the government should seriously consider. The Left Party is also critical of the bill's proposal to remove income support as a variable to explain differences between municipalities. Municipalities work for the benefit of residents, and decisions on financial assistance are made in accordance with the Social Services Act. This is not an effective cost for the municipality's cost compensation. The Left Party is also critical that the system equalises differences in wage costs that are avoidable and should therefore have been removed or reviewed. So to the bourgeois criticism that exists against the government's proposal. In various ways they try to push the thesis that growth has something to do with it – that some municipalities would be inhibited and not make active decisions because of the equalization system. However, this matter has already been investigated by the Equalisation Committee.08, which in 2011 concluded that no evidence was found that the levelling in itself would be growth retardant. Other bourgeois criticism now comes from larger municipalities such as my own, Karlstad municipality, with the moderate municipal councillor Per-Per-Samuel Nisser. To sum up the criticism, you are angry that you as a municipality have to pay a little more. The fact that cities adopt this narrow perspective and only look at their own municipality's finances becomes clear in the case of Karlstad's municipality. Of Värmland's total of 16 municipalities, one, Karlstad municipality, needs to pay more while 15 municipalities become winners and get more of the system back. At the same time, Region Värmland is also one of the system's winners when it comes to redeployment between county councils. It can be assumed that the residents of Karlstad will receive better health care through increased equivalence in the system and that the welfare of neighbouring municipalities will improve, which will probably facilitate regional municipal cooperation on various welfare missions. But you only look narrowly at your own municipality's economy instead of seeing the whole picture and how we should take responsibility for the whole of Sweden. Making the conditions for different municipalities more equal thus increases equality and strengthens the whole of Sweden, both rural and urban. That is why today we should approve the proposal for a new municipal levelling-up. I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-46	Madam President, I would like In the municipalities we build Sweden, as Birger Ekstedt said. But Sweden's municipalities and regions are under pressure. Demographic developments, together with an approaching slowdown in economic activity, risk creating larger budgetary holes, deficits and welfare needs that do not meet. The financing gap in the local government sector, i.e. the difference between cost and revenue development, will in 2023 amount to SEK 43 billion, according to forecasts from the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, SKR. Priorities are required, both locally and nationally. In this situation, the government has a policy that turns its back on municipalities and regions. The budget for next year, despite the increasing local government crisis, is astoundingly weak in terms of subsidies to the local government sector. Instead, priority is given to the various prestige projects of the January parties that they have forced on each other. The lack of understanding of the situation of municipalities is also reflected in the poor management of the cost compensation proposal, which is decided by the Riksdag today and which is intended to enter into force at the turn of the year. Certainly, the government continues to make some investments in its budget from the KD-M budget. The general addition remains, as is the queue billion. However, the resources and reforms presented themselves are insufficient. The government has even cut back on resources for retirement homes, despite the great shortage that awaits. When the dust settled after internal budget battles, it was other things that were given priority. Others were given priority over the 120 000 patients who had been waiting illegally for a long time for care and the 26 000 retirement homes that had to be built by 2026. The government considered itself to have 25 billion in the scope of reform but barely succeeded in providing any additional resources to the local government sector and welfare beyond what was already announced in the M-KD budget. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance held a press conference on ageing initiatives, but it was only a redistribution of existing funds. At the same time, the cuts from last spring were fixed. The Minister of Education held a press conference on billions of investments at the school. It turned out to be a net addition of 100 million. That is what it has sounded like when the budget has been presented. It is understandable, of course, that the government is trying to do something about the local government crisis using other methods. Now a proposal has been put forward for a change in cost compensation as a partial response to these problems. The proposal will make it easier for certain municipalities and regions to fulfil their mandate. At the same time, however, the government's flawed structure is of great concern to others. When the bill was presented in the middle of autumn, many municipalities and regions had already decided on their budgets for 2020 or were in the process of doing so. The proposal has meant that it has had to change. Large amounts have been given priority in municipalities and regions only months or weeks before the start of the financial year. The late presentation of the proposal shows that the government does not really take the situation of municipalities and regions seriously. We Christian Democrats are proposing a more orderly introduction, in which the state takes greater financial responsibility because the introduction is now taking place in haste. In our option, we implement the changes in cost compensation according to the bill. The changes that are now being proposed are, in essence, in our view reasonable. Some calculation factors have not been updated for several years. Reality has long run past them. Others have been replaced with factors of slightly higher accuracy. As an example, home care costs in sparsely populated areas were previously only counted for people over 80 years of age, while the new one also includes the group between 65 and 79 years of age. That's a good change. In our view, however, the negative effects on certain municipalities and regions of the new system must be mitigated. It is not reasonable to implement the proposal in the haste that is now taking place. In our proposal, the introduction premium remains at the highest level for three years instead of one year. In particular, the State is providing funds to the municipalities and regions that are deteriorating when the new levelling-up is introduced. It is about more than 90 municipalities and seven regions that have a negative change in the bill. We take responsibility and have therefore spent 2 billion extra in 2020 and 2021 in our budget option. We do this in addition to specific investments in welfare in the local government sector of over SEK 5 billion for each year. With our proposal, municipalities and regions with positive results in the proposal will have their increased resources at the turn of the year in accordance with the bill, while at the same time limiting the impact on municipalities with a negative contribution or contribution change to a minimum. Our proposal matches the Government's proposal, but since it is also a budget issue where we provide resources to the municipalities affected by the Government's proposal, we will abstain from the main vote on our budget option and then vote on our own proposals. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats support the idea that there is a need for equalisation. There are different conditions that are difficult for the individual municipality and the region to influence. For example, the fact that sparsely populated areas are compensated for the fact that long distances cost more is justified if the country is to stick together. However, it is becoming increasingly clear that an overall review of the countervailing system would be needed. We propose one of these. The investigation on the basis of which the proposal was based had only to propose changes to the cost compensation, which constitutes approximately one-tenth of the entire system. The other parts are not affected. However, just as the new proposal weighs up for sparse costs, the levelling of costs also needs to take better account of growth. These are the challenges of growing rapidly in areas such as infrastructure, school and health care. The risk of a levelling-up that does not take sufficient account of this is that the drivers of growth in municipalities and regions are weakened, to the detriment of the whole country's growth. The potential for a more regional model should also be analysed. Often living municipalities and employment municipalities are geographically close to each other and benefit from each other. However, within the equalisation system they are treated as separate entities and receive different profiles, although it may be largely the case that people living in one municipality work in the other. Here a more regional perspective could contribute to a more reasonable redistribution. I am in favour of reservation 3, which calls for a broad review of the whole system of equalisation in order to strengthen the possibilities for municipalities and regions and to strengthen the legitimacy of the system. Madam President, I would like A difficult time awaits for the country's municipalities and regions. To ensure well-being, we need a policy that now prioritises the local government sector and sees the needs of all the municipalities and regions in the country. The levelling-up is only a small part of the policy that is needed. This bill does not change the great needs that exist. Far more policy, far more resources and far more reforms are needed to tackle the local government crisis as a whole.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-67	Madam President, I would like This debate is becoming a little strange. I allow myself to argue that there is no party – and perhaps no parliamentary politician – that does not want a levelling-up system in Sweden. I, as a stockholmer and as a person who often meets voters from our capital, have never met any voters during my time as politically active who do not think that the whole country should live and who do not think that there should be a basic welfare throughout the country. That is not the conflict. There is no such conflict, Madam President. Instead, the conflict here is that the proposal as such is carelessly drafted and worked out. This leads to increased fragmentation and polarisation throughout the country. It does not respond to the problems that Sweden and our municipalities are facing, and it will be implemented in a hasty way. First of all, it is clear that the government has failed in its ambition to make a proper update of the equalisation system. It really is. Even if you think that cost compensation needs to be reviewed– I can agree with that; there are factors that we need to update– you need to take a comprehensive approach to the whole system. It is unreasonable to start screwing on a nut in such a large and rather complex system without looking at other nuts. We need to look at the income compensation. Above all, we need to increase the responsibility of the state with regard to the financing of the system. There is something strange, Madam President, in the fact that the Social Democrats are happy to talk about municipalities being allowed to decide for themselves and that municipalities need to have a great influence on the politics of their own municipality while ignoring that municipal decisions also affect the situation of the municipality. If you think that municipalities should have a high degree of self-determination – I think so – you should also see that it has consequences when municipalities have to decide a lot for themselves. There is a consequence that is evident in this system. If we do not reform income equalisation and create incentives for municipalities to drive growth and drive more businesses and more people to work, we do not have a system that goes hand in hand. If you think that municipalities should have the right to decide for themselves, you should also think that municipalities have a part in the responsibility for what happens in their own municipality. I think so. I think local politics makes a difference. I believe that what leisure politicians do around the country makes a difference to their own municipality. I believe that municipal and regional decisions can influence what growth you have and what conditions there are for jobs and entrepreneurship. That is why we need to reform income equalisation in a way that gives everyone good incentives to behave and to push for even more growth. Madam President, I would like This proposal is also a shock to all Swedish municipalities and regions. It is introduced quickly, quickly and carelessly, and it hits on growth engines. It does not just hit Stockholm; that is not the problem. The problem with this proposal is that it is hitting growth engines all over the country. It hits municipalities that drive the development of their respective regions around the country. I have spoken to countless municipal politicians in municipalities who are not themselves disadvantaged by the system but who see that the often large municipality in the region that drives regional growth will have a shock in this system. This shock comes at the same time as we see and know that Sweden is on its way into an economic downturn. We're moving towards recession. The burden on our municipalities is increasing. Then there's this shock. Then the government awards this manslaughter blow against growth throughout the country. Madam President, I would like It is also the case that the municipal levelling system fails to meet the problems of growth municipalities. Not only does it strike at growth municipalities, but it fails to face the problems of being large and growing, that is, as a result of scale. The proposal fails to respond to the increased need for funding for infrastructure expansion, for school expansion and for the development of health and long-term care. The proposal misses out on the fact that there are problems both with being small and having a sparse population structure and with being large and having a dense population structure. I can take an example from reality. Unfortunately, it is not so often we talk about such things here in Parliament. Last term of office, when most of the others who are in this pulpit today were already members of parliament, I was a leisure politician in the Rinkeby-Kista district council outside Stockholm. We handled one of the most vulnerable areas in Stockholm, and we were disappointed by the government to say the least. The problems that we had in Rinkeby-Kista and the problems that exist in suburbs around the country are problems that come off scale. They come from being many. It is easier to deal with social and socio-economic vulnerability if there are a little fewer people at risk than if there are more. The government failed during the last parliamentary term to ensure that there were police officers and security measures with us. It failed to provide sufficient funds to the school system. The result was that those of us who were active locally in our vulnerable suburbs themselves had to take money and hire security guards, equip schools and so on. If you have a system that equalises the differences between different parts of the country and misses to see that there are problems with having both a sparse population structure and a dense population structure, it is clear that you do not have a system that is sustainable over time or that meets the target. Madam President, I would like When you listen to the government, it sounds like this is a proposal that aims to unite the country, make sure that we stick together, make sure that we can solve the problems that Sweden faces. But it's just the opposite. This is a proposal that rips Sweden apart, which pits municipalities against each other and does not respond to the problems that Sweden has. I think that here in Parliament we should have a serious discussion about the common challenges that exist in mills and suburbs as well as about the common challenges and opportunities that exist in the archipelago municipalities and mountain municipalities. I would like us to have a serious discussion on how to make Sweden as a whole live and how we can see the problems that exist with welfare and the problems that the whole of Sweden's municipalities are facing. Instead, the government chooses to come forward with a proposal that pits municipalities against each other, which ignores the importance of increasing growth through sharper incentives by reforming income equalisation and which does not take sufficient government responsibility for the burden of municipalities. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the Liberals' reservation and therefore reject the whole of this accident. We cannot take the serious situation that Sweden's municipalities, county councils and regions face this unseriously. It's sloppy and shabby!
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-86	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell from the Liberals begins with the fact that this is a strange debate and that there should be no conflict. He then devotes a large part of his speech to painting the conflict that still becomes money-wise between city and country – while saying that it does not exist. When I read into this report, there was one thing that I reacted quite strongly to in the Liberals' reservation. In addition, the proposal strikes regional growth engines such as residential cities and medium-sized municipalities in several cases. ..................................................... This is a typical example of how to talk about growth engines and places that are developing – and there is something else. It is a typical example of a discussion where we talk about nourishing and boring parts of our country. It is a typical example of rhetoric that actually pulls our country apart instead of creating an entire Sweden that develops and grows. What we see in practice and in reality are both cities that are doing well and cities that are doing badly. We see rural municipalities that are going great and rural municipalities that are doing a little bad. But by deciding in advance that there are regional growth engines, you creep into a model where you only see nourishing and tiring. I'm thinking about whether that's how the Liberals see Sweden. Does Joar Forssell think that there is a nourishing and a boring Sweden? We hear many beautiful words from the Liberals. In fact, I was on the Parliamentary Rural Committee, and if the role of Liberals in the Rural Committee is to be evaluated, there were few proposals and little activity. The Liberals were the only party that reserved and thus made sure that there was not a whole unity. I think that's a pretty bad rating for a party that says they want to work for the whole of Sweden to live. Then we come to the suburban challenges, where I agree with Joar Forssell quite a lot. But then Joar Forssell may be able to answer why the Liberals made sure to remove the fair emigrators that the Left Party pushed through and that actually gave extra money both to the suburbs and to Sweden's rural areas.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-93	Madam President, I would like I can start by answering the last question. Where the Liberals rule, we make sure to introduce security guards, we make sure to strengthen schools and we make sure to invest in those parts of our municipalities that actually need the most support. In this case, I'm thinking it's about our vulnerable suburbs. This is not a discussion about town and country. I do not think there is a conflict between town and country. Everyone in Sweden that I have met – citizens, voters and politicians – thinks that the whole of Sweden should live. They think that there should be basic welfare throughout Sweden and that together we should take responsibility for every part of this country to be good to live in. There should be a school, there should be care and there should be a court system present. There's no conflict. This is ridiculous rhetoric, Madam President. I think it is populism from the Left Party when trying to push forward this polarisation to get through its socialist proposals. Are there nourishing and boring municipalities? No, it doesn't. What exists, however, is a levelling-up system with an income equalisation element that leads to less incentives for municipalities to push for better business, for more entrepreneurship, for more growth. And what is happening with this proposal is precisely that the municipalities that are today the motor of growth and are able to create prosperity in their regions are being shocked. It's a manslaughter blow to growth. This does not mean that they are the only ones who drive growth in their parts of the country. On the contrary, this means that all municipalities in the next stage can be the driving force for growth throughout the country. It is frightening, Madam President, how the Left Party orries that it wants to put a city against a country.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-98	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I think it is good that the Liberals do not see the cost compensation as nourishing and tiring. What you write and say is close to that kind of rhetoric. It is clear, however, that somewhere there is a conflict between city and country that we need to see and talk about in the Swedish parliament. It is a lot about the vision we have and where we land in the policy we are pursuing. We sit in a chamber where the majority live in Sweden's cities versus Sweden's rural areas. One such example was when the Rural Committee presented its proposal. The resistance I received around the country was that Stockholm would suffer if you got a little less in travel compensation or if the countryside got a little more of something and that from a city perspective you would suffer when the countryside got a little more of the cake. It is interesting to compare with the debate in Norway. There is a clear whole-country perspective, but it is not in the Swedish debate. I think it is because cities have a much more dominant position in Swedish debate. The municipal leveling is not socialism, Joar Forssell. However, it makes Sweden a little more fair. And it provides a level playing field – that's why the investigation was called A little more equal – in terms of actual differences in different municipalities, depending on geography, population and distance. The civility re-emphasises the argument that the levelling-up is growth-inhibiting, despite the fact that it was stated in its own survey in 2011 that the levelling-off of income is not growth-inhibiting. It is important to establish that such an investigation has already been set up. We can set up another study that works for many years and comes to the same conclusion again. But what the hell is the benefit? Is that how we use our resources? I'm not sure about that. Therefore, I think it is good that we have taken a step in the right direction, but I would like to take more steps. Perhaps one day it will lead to socialism. I don't think so, but it is in any case a bit more similar between different municipalities.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-105	Madam President, I would like It is like Svenneling of the Left Party has written his points of speech before the debate. I have not said that the equalization system leads to socialism. On the contrary, I said in my opening remarks that everyone here is in favour of a system of equalisation. On the other hand, the honourable Member's proposal is related to socialism. Of course they are, and there's nothing wrong with it. That is why the Member is elected to the Swedish Parliament. Liberals are a party that makes a proposal to give more government money to the system under discussion in order to obtain higher state funding for the equalisation system. Liberals are a party that wants to see a differentiated travel allowance so that in Stockholm, for example, where there is good access to public transport, you can get less travel deductions than in municipalities that are more sparsely populated. I think it is unserious to argue that the Liberals would be a party that does not care that the whole country should live. On the contrary, we have a serious policy for this. On the other hand, Madam President, I find it strange when the Left Party so offensively goes forward with a policy that rips the country apart and pits municipalities against each other, rather than seeing common challenges, to see that there are great socio-economic similarities between Sweden's mills and suburbs, where unemployment is high, where the level of education is often – unfortunately – low and where great efforts are needed, and instead of highlighting that there are great similarities between archipelago municipalities and mountain municipalities, where housing prices are often driven up by people who come from outside buying houses so that the people who come from there do not get a chance to buy a dwelling or where the work is seasonal so that it is difficult to get a stable economic structure. These are challenges shared by the country and our metropolitan regions. Let's talk about what unites Sweden, and let's have a levelling system that seriously meets the problems.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-108	Madam President, I would like An equal welfare that benefits all the inhabitants of the country is a prerequisite for a Sweden that holds together and a Sweden that is growing. Sweden's municipalities and regions are our welfare producers. It is there, in municipalities and regions, that responsibility lies with delivering a good school, high quality care and good health care. It is therefore essential that our municipalities and regions be given as equal opportunities as possible to deliver welfare to citizens wherever they live in the country. One of the most important instruments to achieve this is the system of income and cost compensation that we have, and have had, in Sweden for a long time. Today's debate is about some of this, namely the cost equalisation between municipalities and between regions – what most people know as county councils. Therefore, Madam President, I would like here and now to support the proposal in the Committee on Finance's report No 18, the amendments to the cost compensation for municipalities and county councils, and the rejection of the reservations. Madam President, I would like The conditions for our municipalities and regions in Sweden differ in a rather dramatic way, with population figures that now vary from the smallest municipality, Bjurholm in Västerbotten, with fewer than 2,500 inhabitants, to the largest, Stockholm, with more than 962,000 inhabitants. The differences in population density vary from 0.2 – yes, 0.2 – inhabitants per square kilometre in Arjeplog to 5,818 inhabitants per square kilometre in Sundbyberg. As far as our regions are concerned, the number of inhabitants varies from just over 59 000 for the smallest, Gotland, to just over 2.3 million in the largest and most populous, namely Stockholm County. In this light, most people probably understand that some kind of levelling-up system is needed to provide a reasonable level playing field for a quality home service, a good preschool and school, and a high-quality healthcare service throughout the country. Madam President, I would like The task of the cost equalisation is to smooth out the structural, irreversible conditions for the activities that are mandatory in our municipalities and regions. The system should therefore not compensate for differences in the level of ambition. The cost compensation is jointly and severally financed in the sector. It is therefore an in-municipal system. However, despite income and cost compensation, there are still very large differences in municipal taxes. The difference is almost SEK 6 with Dorotea of just over SEK 35 and Österåker of just over SEK 29 at the top. And believe me, there is no linear link between the municipal tax rate and the supply of services and welfare. Rather, the opposite is true. This means that the challenges are great and that the cost compensation system needs to be updated and improved here and now, but we also need to give priority to investments in our municipalities and regions. These are initiatives that must take precedence over future unfunded tax cuts. Madam President, I would like An important basis for the government's proposal is the investigation that just over a year ago left its report with the rather apt name of A little more equal. The commission of the investigation included examining whether the current system adequately captures major societal changes, such as changes in population composition and demographic changes. Part of the investigation's conclusion was that the current system definitely has shortcomings. First, there is a lack of automaticity in updates, which means that the changes become unnecessarily large after each investigation. The investigations come about five years apart. Updates account for about 60% of the changes that the current proposal entails. On the one hand, a part of the statistical data in the system is extremely old age. There are statistics that have been in the system since the 1990s. That is, of course, totally unsatisfactory. But the most important thing that the investigation noted was that the current system does not sufficiently compensate for two things – two very important things – namely the importance of sparsely populated areas and of socio-economic background. This conclusion from the investigation also significantly characterises the government's proposal. The current proposal provides better and fairer conditions for municipalities with a high proportion of sparsely populated areas and a large proportion of inhabitants with a weaker socio-economic background. Madam President, I would like We are seeing today an increasing proportion of the population ageing. It is in many respects a positive result of a sensible general welfare policy and also a positive result of medical development. But it is also a development that poses challenges. It is mainly in sparsely populated municipalities that the proportion of older people is expected to grow most in the coming years. At the same time, there is extensive urbanisation from these municipalities. The challenges are growing. The Government's proposal compensates the municipalities and regions with the greatest challenges and the toughest conditions to deliver welfare to their citizens. We strengthen the municipalities where home care needs to go far, sometimes very far, to reach their elderly and where school shootings need to be to a greater extent because the sparse buildings lead to a large distance to the nearest school. We strengthen those regions that find it more difficult to recruit staff because of their geographical location, among other things. At the same time, municipalities and regions are more compensated for socio-economic challenges. It is fair politics that holds Sweden together. In order to maintain the standard of welfare, significant additional resources will be needed in the future. Up-to-date cost adjustment is a relatively small but very important part of meeting welfare needs throughout the country. Many municipalities and regions are currently in a vulnerable situation. In some places, the situation is almost acute. We can't have that. That is why the change is needed here and now. We Social Democrats are always safeguarding equal and fair welfare for all citizens, Madam President. That is why I once again call for the proposal in the report and, therefore, for the government's proposal and rejection of the reservations.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-122	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats talk a lot about the need for more money for municipalities and how important municipalities are for welfare. In fact, their policy is something quite different. In the JÖK budget, as we call it, the local government sector had to stand back in favour of other things. We Moderates do the opposite and add the local government sector 50% more in new money than the government does in its budget. How can we afford this? Well, thanks to the fact that we're giving priority to other things. We streamline and close down government agencies. We are adjusting aid down to the UN's recommended targets. We are abolishing pointless building subsidies, inefficient climate policies, pointless labour market policies, free years, family week and e-bike premiums. We are tightening up migration and integration policies and introducing grant ceilings, qualification for new arrivals in benefit systems and conditions in supply support. We are doing a lot of things that free up money, and it gives us room to invest much more in the welfare and municipalities, and in the police and the judiciary, which are also very important for our rural areas. We can reduce taxes on both wage earners and pensioners and reduce the tax on petrol, which benefits people in rural areas. At the same time, we have more surpluses in public finances than the government and support parties. We can see that with our moderate policy there will be more money for welfare, and with the policies of the Social Democrats the municipalities and the welfare will stand back. I would like to ask Ingemar Nilsson a question. I can buy a lot of the rhetoric and arguments in his speech, but how does Ingemar Nilsson envisage that the Social Democrats will be able to bring more money to the local government sector when one clearly prioritises quite different things in his own budget?
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-128	Madam President, I would like I have to say that it is impressive to hear Jan Ericson appear to be the giver of all good gifts. It is impressive if you try to see at least a little bit of the history that Jan Ericson and the party he represents in the Swedish Parliament have to answer for. During the last term of office, i.e. the period 2014– 2018, the Social Democratically led government added 35 billion in new money to Swedish welfare in the form of an increase in general state grants. Now we are increasing general state subsidies by another EUR 5 billion. They are sometimes noted as already promised. Yes, they were. It is a strength if you can deliver what you promise and start from in an election movement. It is interesting what Jan Ericson says that the Moderates are doing to deliver more. The abolition of building subsidies and unnecessary labour market policies and the introduction of subsidy ceilings. What Jan Ericson and Moderate's policies lead to is a massive overwhelming of costs at Sweden's municipalities. Sweden's municipalities are allowed to take responsibility for a housing market that operates extremely differently around Sweden. They're gonna make it. The responsibility for labour market policy is also passed on to local authorities. It announces the reintroduction of the pre-stock in health insurance – another way to pass on costs to municipalities. The Social Democrats and the government take responsibility for the whole. We make sure to have systems that work in our municipalities and regions. This is why efforts to correct the cost compensation system are an important part of the whole process. That's not the whole solution. But I am pleased, Jan Ericson, that there will apparently be very broad parliamentary support for increased resources for Sweden's municipalities.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-133	Madam President, I would like The givers of all good gifts, yes, you might think so. I call it priorities. We have a certain amount of money. If we prioritise right and use the money for the right things, we can add more money to municipalities and welfare. We have proved it in our budget. I think it is clear; just read inside. As for whether it is gifts or what it should be called, I do not think it is a gift to use tax money wisely. It is money that people have worked together and paid into our system, and then they should also be used for the right things. Ingemar Nilsson boasts of all the new initiatives that the Social Democrats have made. Now it is true that many of these investments were partly in the alliance budget 2015 and partly in the M-KD budget most recently. That is much of the money that you continue to cherish. I think that is a good thing, but it was actually us who added them and made room for them. If we talk about housing subsidies, we know that they had very little effect, so saving on them is not a major concern for the local government sector. To suggest that our somewhat downgraded labour market measures in a boom would pass on concerns to the municipalities, I think is a bit meagre, given that you yourself are basically engaged in the panic slaughter of the whole of Arbetsförmedlingen. It's a matter of concern to the municipalities. Reducing the measures in a boom is not a concern for municipalities. I can only say that it is a fact that the Social Democrats invest less in municipalities and welfare than the Moderates do. It's just to read inside. We invest 50 percent more in new money, 7 1⁄2 billion compared to the government's 5 billion – and the 5 billion is also largely money that was already in the M-KD budget. That truth is certainly an unpleasant truth for the Social Democrats, but it is nevertheless a truth.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-138	Madam President, I would like We can discuss who did what, Jan Ericson, but we can note that, for example, the building of housing during the government period when the Alliance ruled was the lowest in modern times. As a result, when we took over the government power in 2014, we had a situation around Sweden's municipalities where the housing shortage was alarming. Views can be made on whether new production subsidies, support for building new housing, are optimal. But in the situation that was, with the extreme housing shortage in many of Sweden's municipalities, this was the only means available. We stand up for that every day, and we intend to continue that development. One can think about what is overwhelming the municipalities. But it is quite clear that Jan Ericson confuses the concepts, and that is of course no coincidence. What is going on with reforming an authority called Arbetsförmedlingen is one thing. What Jan Ericson and the M-KD budget did with surgical precision was to slaughter the content of labour market policy, that is to say, the opportunity to provide people with training and skills development so that they can take the jobs that actually exist. That is the seriousness of the M-KD budget. This is what Sweden's municipalities overwhelm to take responsibility for. Responsible policy? Well, now I don't know exactly in detail what Jan Ericson means by introducing a grant cap. My question – rhetorical because Jan Ericson has no right to reply, Madam President – is whether the premium ceiling is what should ensure that deductions are distributed more fairly or are reduced across Sweden. For where are the RUT and ROT deductions maximum? Well, it is in the municipalities with the absolute highest income where you have the absolute greatest opportunity to pay it yourself. That is where we have the problem of moderate fiscal policy and the moderate view of economic distribution. Madam President, I would like I would welcome a proposal for such a restriction from Jan Ericson and the Moderates.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-144	Madam President, I would like The municipalities and regions will be in the absolute front line in the coming years when it comes to the struggle to maintain and maintain Swedish welfare. This is where we see demographic change, where it will have to be built, both new preschools and retirement homes, and it is above all there that the struggle to offer safe, secure and accessible care throughout the country is taking place. From this House, we can do a number of things to facilitate that work. An important part is, of course, money in the form of increased general government subsidies. The budget currently under discussion, which will be decided and then put into effect at the turn of the year, contains important reinforcements to the local government sector. However, it is clear now that these will not be enough. The stairway we are laying out in the budget, which is now under discussion, if an additional EUR 5 billion a year during the term of office is a good first step. But we will have to follow up on this in future budgetary processes, because it simply needs national support for our municipalities and regions. However, increased national contributions will not solve the entire welfare situation in the Swedish welfare society at municipal and regional level. We will also have to work hard with priorities. It is about increasing productivity development, getting more well-being for each tax chandelier and thinking through at all levels – local, regional and national – whether what is being done today in the public sphere is really as important as the absolute core of welfare. I do not think so, but I believe that in the coming years we will have to work with increased public subsidies to the local government sector. We will need to work with priorities and really protect the welfare services that we hold closest to our hearts, while at the same time trying to bring up efficiency and productivity and deliver the best possible welfare for our tax crowns. This is how we need to meet both the demographic and the economic developments that the forecasts are giving rise to. The study that forms the basis for the adjustments in the cost adjustment is called A little more equal. It is easy to agree with the approach in the heading A little more similar. If you want to have a point of view, it is probably on the first word, because the question is whether a little more is enough. It is likely that in the coming years we will have to take steps to make it much more equal, because it is not an equal local government sector and equal relations between the different regions of the country at present. We see unacceptable differences in municipal tax rates between the municipalities that are forced to have the highest tax rates in the country and the municipalities that have the lowest tax rates. In part, we are trying to meet this in the budget that will take effect at the turn of the year through a targeted tax reduction in the areas where the municipalities have the highest tax rates. It is a good first step, but we must also work long-term. We must work structurally and ensure that the country's municipalities have better opportunities than today to deliver acceptable welfare for about the same tax charges on the municipal side. It is not good enough that there is a difference between the municipality with the highest and the municipality with the lowest tax in our country. In addition, the municipalities that pay the highest municipal tax use less of the public commitment. It is less infrastructure, and I think we are all fully aware that there is much less government cultural policy in a municipality like Sorsele than in Sundsvall or Stockholm. It suggests that the unfairness of paying more tax for the same welfare offer is rather greater, since much of the public commitment is not available at all in the places where the highest tax is paid. The differences are therefore unacceptable. Efforts to secure and safeguard the ability of municipalities and regions to deliver well-being for a reasonable tax contribution must continue. Nevertheless, the bill, which came into place after the investigation A little more alike, contains some steps in the right direction. We believe that these are wise considerations that underpin the new bases of calculation in terms of sparseness and certain socio-economic factors. On the whole, we have a somewhat more balanced system. Generally speaking, the big winners of this system are smaller municipalities in somewhat more sparsely populated areas of the country. We have discussed here both the content of the bill and the timetable, and I think that both are important to have with us. As far as the content itself is concerned, we believe that the system is fundamentally somewhat better balanced in the new proposal. We can see that only one party in Parliament will vote against the proposal under paragraph 1 of the report. However, the timetable is not insignificant, because the municipalities benefiting from this proposal are municipalities that are in an extremely vulnerable position at the moment. It is being discussed that introducing it now or in a year's time does not matter so much. But the difference if this is not introduced at the turn of the year but at some point in the future is that the municipalities in question will have to cut out small schools, retirement homes and welfare services if they do not receive the supplement that the bill entails. I and the Center Party therefore support both the content and the timetable, because the negative consequences if we say no to or postpone the introduction are so great that I am not willing to have them on my conscience. Does this mean that there are no problems whatsoever with the proposal? Absolutely not. A smoothing is just a balance and a zero-sum game; if someone wins, someone else loses. And of course some municipalities and regions experience problems with changing conditions. These are legitimate points of view, and we must take them with us. But I think that the whole of the new proposal is better than nothing happening. Several speakers have already discussed the problem of the fact that this is only about one element, the cost adjustment, and that there are other parts of the system. They have asked whether it is not time for a major review. In fact, I think these debaters are right. This case concerns a number of adjustments to the cost adjustment. I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. But this issue will continue to live. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the system and concluded that further adjustments need to be made. It will be dealt with in the Committee on Finance and in this House in the near future. I think it is time to make a more fundamental review. The Center Party will contribute to such a fundamental review. Although it is difficult, we need to find a new balance between the legitimate demands of growth municipalities to be able to deliver welfare in a growth phase, while at the same time being able to accommodate rural municipalities and smaller, more sparsely populated municipalities' legitimate wishes and the need to be able to deliver welfare even in that kind of situation. This is in many ways a zero-sum game. It is not easy to find a balance. But we need to make an effort, because a new and better system can be found than what we are today in many pieces and pieces of legislation. We are therefore taking a step in the right direction with this proposal. That is why the Center Party is in favour of the proposal as a whole. But it is time to take a holistic approach, and we will push this forward in processes in the near future.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-160	Madam President, I would like Keeping a country together is one of the most important tasks for a parliament. We have the task of holding a country together with great distances and great differences, a country that is also undergoing major changes. Our population is changing, and we live longer, which puts our well-being and our common security systems under great pressure. The population will increase in the future, and therefore it is an important task for all of us to protect and maintain the quality of the welfare of everyone living in Sweden, wherever you live and regardless of the conditions under which you live. Sweden also has a strong urbanisation, just like the whole Western world. This creates major changes for municipalities and regions' ability to deliver welfare – school, home care, care etc. – around the country. This is the background to the fact that we are now reviewing the cost adjustment. However, as has been said in the speaker's chair, this is one of the many steps that Parliament needs to take to maintain welfare throughout Sweden. It is an important and necessary step based on actual changes. When we discuss the cost adjustment, it is important to have certain basic facts clear to us, facts that often disappear in the debate. The system is about creating similar conditions for municipalities and regions to deliver welfare to their citizens. It takes into account factors that municipalities cannot influence, such as distance, sparseness and density, and the composition of the population. Although there are those who are starting to lean towards wanting it, we in Sweden, thank God, do not have a system in which the municipalities are allowed to choose their citizens, but they have a lot of citizens to be provided with welfare. As the population ages, it affects different municipalities differently. We see a clear tendency to increase the number of older people related to people of working age, especially in sparsely populated areas. Since this group has a great need for strong welfare, it is important that we ensure that these municipalities have the right conditions to deliver it. Today's bill and decision are a step towards this. In order to maintain welfare, we will need to make further efforts in the future. But it is also important that we ensure that it is invested throughout the country, that the state invests in the whole country and that the municipalities are given the opportunity to invest. This is another part of the important work. Madam President, I would like Let me comment on what is said about growth engines and the contribution of different municipalities to the Swedish economy. I'll try to destroy a myth, too. Building a municipality with a large working-age population that pays taxes is not difficult. Nor is it necessarily growth-creating. In Sweden you estimate where you live and not where you work. Building villas to bring in a strong middle class is not difficult for a municipal politician. I know that, because I've been a construction council. What is difficult is to build a belief in the future and make investments forward and create jobs. But there is something else, and there is no direct connection between hours worked and this system. Therefore, it has been repeatedly established in evaluations that neither the system of cost equalisation nor income equalisation hampers growth in Sweden. On the contrary, well-being and people's trust in society is a basis for creating growth and economic development in Sweden. Therefore, cost equalisation is one of the important tools to keep Sweden and our economic development together. I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-172	Madam President, I would like When I listen to Karolina Skog, I am struck by the fact that the Green Party is now a party that has a total focus on placard politics and is completely deaf to the reality of people in the Swedish countryside. Although Karolina Skog is passionate about how important it is for the whole of Sweden to live – that it is a concern with great distances in the countryside and so on – and for the green industries, the forest, food production and local energy supply, and so on, she forgets that her own policy effectively knocks away the bones of those who actually try to live in the Swedish countryside, drive the green industries and counteract the urbanisation that Karolina Skog talks about in her speech. The Environment Party's own Environment and Climate Minister flies most foreign of all ministers, including the Prime Minister. In addition, she often has expensive tickets in business class. At the same time, the Green Party blames the people who are completely dependent on domestic aviation, those who have to take the car to everything because public transport is missing and those who run activities in our countryside and who are completely dependent on truck transport. Added to this are rising fuel taxes, increased electricity taxes and network costs, poor capacity in electricity supply and threats of closure of small local airports. I can also add things that the Green Party is pushing about restrictions on forestry, restrictions on construction, hunting rules, arms laws and a lot of other things. Does Karolina Skog not realise that the policy of the Green Party, in addition to hypocrisy, seriously harms the possibility of living and living in the Swedish countryside and, above all, the possibility of running the green industries for which the Green Party speaks so warmly?
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-177	I would like to remind you that this is a debate on cost compensation.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-178	Madam President, I would like I am going to reply to this reply with a comment on the cost adjustment, although I did not hear anything in the line and the question to me about it. Rather, it was unusually far away. The Green Party and the Government have a broad policy for the ability to run industries, including green industries, throughout Sweden. We work actively to support the opportunity to live and work throughout Sweden. One thing we do in our budget is to reduce the tax in the municipalities with the highest municipal tax, because we believe that the big difference is a major problem. Another thing we do is update the cost compensation when Sweden changes. This opposes the Moderates and makes politics out of it, which I regret. Of course, we must have a policy that is connected. The cost compensation in itself does not create good conditions throughout Sweden, but it is an important tool. However, as I said in my speech, it is just as important that it be invested in the whole country. One method is our environmental and climate policy, which creates investments throughout Sweden. The possibility of refuelling fossil-free throughout Sweden is an important prerequisite for companies and people to be able to participate in the transition to a fossil-free society. Gas prices in the world will increase, and we can stand passively and wait or create the opportunity to transport people and goods fossil-free throughout Sweden. We have an active policy for this.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-184	Madam President, I would like Let me say that the cost compensation is a piece and that its purpose is to strengthen the finances of municipalities and to smooth out the differences across the country. To point out, in a parliamentary debate, that other policies that counteract this are being pursued, I think, are entirely appropriate. My point is that the environmental party's policy in general, which impoverishes rural and rural areas, can never be compensated by the cost compensation between Sweden's municipalities. A completely different policy is needed. As the Green Party is behind the government's budget, it is also behind much less investment in the local government sector than we Moderates represent, as I explained in a previous shift in line. The environmental party's policy is a manslaughter battle against the Swedish countryside, and as I said, it can never be compensated by cost compensation. You need to understand that the whole policy has to be connected. Karolina Skog talks about the whole policy being connected, but the problem is that it does not.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-187	Madam President, I would like We have a large number of municipalities and regions in Sweden where you really fight with the economic conditions and where the situation is very serious. They need rapid and clear information that they will have better opportunities from the end of the year. With today's decision, we are giving them such a message. We are quickly introducing this, and it is an updated, modern cost compensation system. I find it very difficult to see what is the problem with us adapting the system to reality. At the same time, we have a government that ensures that we invest in the whole of Sweden. The policy that is claimed to impoverish Sweden's sparsely populated areas is thus reduced tax in those municipalities that have the highest municipal tax in sparsely populated areas. This also means that we get biogas stations in Ronneby, Sölvesborg and Mark. They call this a problem and a policy that impoverishes Sweden. I see a policy that invests in the whole of Sweden, where we change together.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-189	Madam President, I would like In her speech, Member Skog spoke about how much experience she has as a municipal councillor. I would like to ask a question to Mr Skog, who has been Mayor of Malmö. In my introduction, I talked about how suburbs have big problems. You can see similar problems in Malmö as we had in Rinkeby-Kista when I sat in the district council there. It sounded in Mrs Skog's speech that she does not think it is possible to influence the possibilities of one's municipality, Madam President, but when I sat on the Rinkeby-Kista district council, we made sure to reduce dependency on subsidies, increase the vitality of the business community and get more people to work. What happened at the same time, however, was that the government in which Mr Skog then sat as a minister failed to ensure that we were safe and had police officers and that the justice system worked, so in my municipality we ourselves, with our money, had to pay for our own security guards when the state failed. Madam President, I would like I wonder: Is the former municipal councillor from Malmö – the former minister in the government responsible for the fact that in my part of Sweden we did not receive the support we needed from the state but had to finance it ourselves – but that it is not possible to influence the viability of the business community at its own municipal level? In addition, does Forest maintain that the levelling-up system also adequately takes into account urban challenges?
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-193	Madam President, I would like I talked about the fact that there are factors that a municipality cannot influence, and these are included in the cost compensation. These are factors like distance– I have children's books at home about those shrinking machines, but they don't exist – and demography. It is important that we remember that this is what the cost compensation is all about. Contrary to what the honourable Member said, I spoke in my speech about factors that municipalities can really influence and about the possibility of running businesses and creating jobs. It is also possible to influence to some extent who move in through settlement planning. We have a number of municipalities that make this very effective. If you make sure that most villas are built, you get a tax-rich group of people. This has nothing to do with growth, and this applies not least to commuting municipalities. There you often commute to another municipality that has created the jobs for them. This situation is very clear in the region around Malmö that I can. The growth does not take place in Vellinge or Staffanstorp, but in Malmö. That's where the jobs are created. Yet the conditions in Malmö are tougher, for socio-economic reasons. These are exactly the factors raised by the honourable Member. Another point with the cost compensation is that it also takes this in, to create corresponding conditions for different municipalities. The system is complex. I'll never say it's perfect, but it's an important tool. What we are doing now is updating it when reality has changed, so that we take better account, for example, of the demographic differences that exist in different parts of the country.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-196	Madam President, I would like I want all of Sweden to live. I want it to be possible to live a good life throughout Sweden and that there should be basic welfare, security and a judiciary that is present throughout the country. I think that municipalities should be given a great deal of autonomy, but I also realise that municipal decisions affect what opportunities you have and how it works for the municipality. It affected my neighborhood, where I sat on the district board, when we made decisions and when the government failed – the government that Member Skog sat in – by not giving us the police and guaranteeing us security. Then we took our own money and hired security guards. I understand that it was our decisions, where we took business seriously, which ensured that we were able to lift people out of welfare dependency and break much of the negative trend that existed in my area in Rinkeby-Kista during that term of office. Madam President, I would like It still sounds to Mr Skog that municipalities themselves cannot influence the business community, the vitality of the business sector or the economic conditions they have, because that is exactly what this is all about. I mean that the whole of Sweden should be a country of opportunity where it is possible to live, where it is possible to operate, where we get a thriving business and where all parts of the country are good places to live. Then, Madam President, a system of equalisation cannot be found in the way that this government has now done. The system does not take into account the fact that there are similar challenges in suburbs and mills or in mountain and archipelago municipalities, and it ignores the fact that there are problems throughout the country that need to be solved with more government funding in the system.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-200	Madam President, I would like This will be absurd. I can repeat once again, for the third time, that as a municipal politician – I know all about this – you can have a great deal of influence on the municipality's conditions for economic development. You can also influence the community, the population and the demographics that move. It is easy to build villas and get a lot of tax power in that way, but we do not have the opportunity to reduce the older population and force them out of the municipality. These are costs incurred by municipalities. This system is about giving them the opportunity to meet the challenges we have when the population changes and we have a strong urbanisation in Sweden. This is very clear. I can sum up the debate by saying that we actually seem to agree that we need to do more to strengthen the ability of municipalities and regions to deliver high quality welfare to their citizens throughout Sweden. I look forward to this discussion in the future here in Parliament.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-202	Madam President, I would like Cost equalisation and tax equalisation is a matter of concern to the Center Party because we are passionate about the whole of Sweden living. It's kind of in our DNA. The investigation that is the basis of the bill is called a bit more alike. It's actually a very apt name, because perfect equality and justice will never be given. A little more alike is exactly what it's all about. Cost equalisation is the small part of tax equalisation and accounts for about 10%, as we have heard in the debate. It needs to be pointed out that all countries have a balance between different parts of the country. This is not unique to Sweden but actually something quite normal, but it is not always heard in the debate. It is also important, I think, to state that these are structural factors that cannot be influenced. When you hear the debate, you think it is levels of ambition, efficiency, good or bad, right or left politicians, but that is not really the case. These are structural factors we are talking about in this part, and this is important to have with you. Two major changes are sparse and social factors, which have been upgraded, plus an update of basic data, which is quite reasonable. There is a discussion in the debate that the state would take more of these costs. In fact, I believe that this idea leads to a great deal of error, because this is an equalisation between the municipalities. If the state were to go in and take this cost, what would happen? Well, that means that the government spends money on us continuing to have a large difference between the highest and the lowest tax rates in the country. So you would spend government money to keep a large tax gap. I think that's the wrong idea. I will bring up a real case to show what this means. I'm always talking about Gotland, as you know. It's my role in life. Gotland is like Gud's gift to mankind in terms of place of residence. Everyone understands that. Everyone wants to live on Gotland. This means that we have very many young people, and the number of families with young people has increased sharply. When our young Gotlanders reach the age of 20-25, we lend them to Stockholm so that they can work there during their working age. Sometimes it feels like we are doing it so that Stockholm politicians can say that Stockholm is a growth engine. We lend these Gotlanders when they are about 20 to 55 years old. When these people are getting older and want to take it a little calmer, they move back to Gotland and settle there again. This means that Gotland has very many young people and very many old but relatively few of working age. This must, of course, be adjusted for. The alternative to a cost equalisation system, which equalises between municipalities, is a transitional system – a transfer system – just as you have in hockey, for example. Then we'll charge you for every educated Gotlander we lend to the Stockholmers. When we take back the lent-out Gotlander, who comes back from Stockholm after 30 years, we will withdraw a transitional amount. Everyone realizes that this probably doesn't work. That is why we need this system. We also think that the outcome of this system is a little better. It is with great pleasure that Gotland notes that this outcome gives healthcare 92 million more annually to Region Gotland. It's very necessary. Finally, I will say that I agree with what Emil Källström said about the need for a major overhaul of the whole system. What we are discussing is only a small part. If I talk about Gotland again, we need a new factor to cope with our health care in the future. This is a bit along the way, but more effects will definitely be needed in the future. I think that the proposal before us is excellent.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-213	Madam President, I would like We are now going to deal with the report of the Committee on Justice on breaches of elected representatives. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report. Madam President, I would like One night in September 2016, the then municipal chairman of Skurup, Pierre Esbjörnsson, wakes up from the fact that his car is on fire. The car is connected to the home, and there is a risk that the fire will spread to the house. Pierre's two children are also in the house. Fortunately, the fire did not spread to the house, but on the wall of the house was found Nazi scribbles. The time after the fire Pierre gets sheltered accommodation and gets to carry alarms. In December 2016, Pierre announced that he was leaving his assignments, despite the fact that it was a heavy decision to make, although he was happy with the mission and despite the fact that he was burning for his mission. Pierre left his assignments because of threats to him and his family. He chose to put the family first. I have full respect and understanding for Pierre's decision. However, I have no respect or understanding for those behind this. The events behind Pierre's resignation may be an example of the threats that may affect elected representatives, for Pierre is by no means alone. Only last week we could read about threats to Uppsala politician Ylva Stadell. And hanging dolls were found outside three municipalities in southern Sweden. Madam President, I would like The political security survey 2017 revealed that one in four elected representatives was subjected to harassment, threats or violence in connection with their political positions of trust in 2016. Almost one in four elected representatives has been influenced in their mandate, either to considerations or to actual actions, due to vulnerability or concerns about exposure. The most common consequence is that the elected councillor has avoided getting involved or speaking on a specific issue. From my perspective as chairman of the Social Democrats in Malmö, it is clear that some elected representatives are hit harder than others. Women elected representatives are affected more often than their male colleagues. Elected people with foreign background are affected more often than those with no foreign background. And elected representatives of Muslim faith are affected more often than those of other faiths. Madam President, I would like There are now violations of elected representatives to such an extent that they may be considered a threat to representative democracy. It is also worrying that the vulnerability of elected representatives is increasing. The general measures taken are not sufficient to counteract these developments. There is therefore a need for enhanced criminal law protection for elected representatives. Against this background, it is now proposed to include in the Code a special penalty for offences committed against a person because he, she or someone close to him has held an office as elected representative in the State, municipality, county council, Sametinget or the European Parliament. I am pleased that we in this House are in agreement on this issue and that we stand together for representative democracy. Madam President, I would like The committee also proposes an announcement to the government in response to the motion for a resolution. The committee believes that the issue of enhanced criminal law protection should also be examined for other particularly important professions of the democratic system, such as journalists. On Monday, for example, we could read in Evening Post about Spegeln, a local newspaper in Staffanstorp. They state that staff are exposed to threats as soon as they ask critical questions to the municipal management. According to the newspaper's editor-in-chief Stefan Svensson, who has worked at the locality for 22 years, he has never experienced anything like this before. Researching journalism is a prerequisite for a living democracy, but journalism is now hard hit. According to a survey at Gothenburg University, almost six out of ten journalists in the country have been subjected to harassment, threats or violence in connection with their professional activities. Furthermore, many threatened journalists report that their work has been affected and that they have chosen not to monitor sensitive subjects, persons and issues. Madam President, I would like Against this background, it is a strength that we agree with the committee's announcement. But, Madam President, I believe that our position today is binding. It is said that the pen is more powerful than the sword. And some pens are more powerful than other pens. Then it is also a matter of taking responsibility for what you write. Because your pen may very well be the sword of your hattail. In this area, some elected representatives have a longer journey than others.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-228	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. In the bill we are now debating, Offences against elected representatives, a new special penalty is proposed in the Criminal Code for crimes committed against elected representatives or relatives of an elected representative. Crimes against elected representatives, precisely because they are elected representatives, are also a crime against democracy. Politicians' security survey, carried out by Brå, shows that every third politician reports that they were subjected to threats, violence or harassment last year. Our parliamentary governance is based on people running – and want to run – in general elections to assume positions of trust. The purpose of this penalty is therefore to protect democracy and to highlight the seriousness of society's view of crimes aimed at silencing voices in the democratic system. However, it is very important to stress that this penalty only applies when it is clear that crimes have been committed against a person precisely because he has had a position of trust. It may be threatening a elected representative to silence, to leave his mission or to make a different decision. The grounds for enforcement should therefore not be the basis if an elected representative has his or her bike stolen or is subjected to crimes that have nothing to do with his or her trust. Madam President, I would like In addition to the category of elected representatives, there are other categories of persons that are important for our parliamentary and democratic governance. This can be about people who are not elected today but who run for office to be elected, for example to the Riksdag. If a person moves a candidate to withdraw his candidacy through threats and violence, he has indeed committed a crime, not only against the vulnerable but also against democracy. Another important group that is subjected to violence and hatred are journalists and editorial staff. As mentioned earlier, a study carried out at the University of Gothenburg shows that almost six out of ten journalists in the country have been subjected to harassment, threats or violence in connection with their professional practice. In order to highlight how seriously society views crimes with the motive to silence voices in the democratic system, Parliament announces to the government with today's vote that the government will investigate the conditions for protection also for other professions that are important for the democratic system, such as journalists.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-234	Madam President, I would like We are not really debating this report, because there is a great deal of agreement in committee that these are important issues that should be highlighted with broad consensus. There are many of us in this congregation who are or have been subjected to hatred and threats. We know what it feels like when, as an elected representative, you do your duty and represent your constituents, but as a consequence you are exposed to very unpleasant threats and hate. Since we are not debating this report, I would like to take this opportunity to call on all people in this country who are politically interested to stay away from hating and threatening elected politicians. It is unworthy of our country, which is a great democracy in essence. We all have the opportunity to influence by having a good tone in the debate. Take that opportunity! It deserves our country. In this report, we have helped to broaden the scope of criminal protection by proposing a declaration that protection should include, for example, journalists. I do not think it is unknown to anyone in this House that journalists are also exposed to organised hatred and to threats. Sometimes you may even refrain from doing an important investigative work because you know the consequences. Many in the political debate tend to say that stricter penalties do not help. I can say, however, that only the introductory text of this report makes me even exhale a little extra, because by reading it I know that I have the support of society in my back when, as elected politicians, I exercise my office. It helps me to feel a little more secure to know this particular thing. In this case, I would therefore like to say that, from my personal point of view, it helps with more stringent penalties. It helps people who are exposed. This may involve, for example, systematically being subjected to crimes with basically fairly low penalties but where the systematic nature of it makes it too difficult to continue to be elected. It costs a recurring meeting with letters from the Police Authority where you can read that crime cannot be proved because it is difficult to prove. Today, we are issuing an announcement on the strengthening of criminal law protection for other professions as well as taking decisions to see breaches of elected representatives as a special basis for punishment, and I hope that this will send a signal to the police and law enforcement authorities that they will look more seriously at each individual threat and every individual case of hatred of elected representatives. They will hopefully show the support needed for more elected representatives to continue to perform their duties. I support the proposal in the report.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-241	Madam President, I would like When I was elected politically in Nora about 25 years ago, I did not think I would stand here today to debate a bill with such meaning as what we have before us today. In fact, I did not think that after a debate in the newspapers on rape I would have letters sent to me, with the message: If you want your girls in peace, ask them to dress properly and cover their bodies! Yes, you do understand that the wording was not exactly that way, but it was much coarser words that were used – and gender words. The letter was signed by a Peter. I'm thinking, should I have to take this? Should elected politicians have to take this? I just want to tell Peter that he shouldn't care about five cents how my girls dress. Unfortunately, similar letters have been sent to elected representatives across the country. Sometimes they contain threats to family and friends, where the meaning is roughly: You are an injury to the municipality, and I will harm your family if you continue. Unfortunately, we can see that women are more affected than men and that the meaning of the threats to them is quite different, as is language. Family members are also affected. I have experienced that relatives of women in leading positions received letters with so-called truths that this talented woman does not hold her leading position because she has qualities and has earned it, but she holds it because she has been lying around. I also did not think that after having lunch with my political opponents after a municipal board meeting, I would get comments like: What, do you eat lunch together? Oh, I didn't think so! Madam President, I would like This reflects how the climate of debate has changed in general – and above all in social media. The political debate today is different than it was when I joined 25 years ago. Today it runs around the clock in social media. It's available. In the past, apart from discussing politics with friends, when they certainly did not use this language and this tone, they had to go to the council hall and the council meeting to listen. Then you saw that the language is not really like that in reality. That is the difference: today the debate takes place in long lines on social media, and I – we – are able, able and unable to respond to everything. As a result, people think that the debate is so real and that we cannot distinguish between the thing and the person. Madam President, I would like Can this be remedied by a new legislative proposal? Me and the Center Party are absolutely convinced of that. Sometimes, the debate in social media on the web tilts over and turns into pure threats. Should we sit outside the courthouse's entrance and wait for the politicians when they come and settle? ..................................................... Sometimes the threats aren't even anonymous. Such threats are, of course, punishable even today, but had this basis of enforcement existed, it would have been even easier to convict a person who speaks that way. One in three has been exposed – it is clear that this penalty is needed. The Center Party has been in charge of more than 200 municipalities since the last election, and unfortunately we have already had several drop-outs in a year. It's not about us being indispensable – new people can come to – but if you're going to stop politics, you shouldn't stop because of threats and harassment. Political stability and democracy require this change. The issue of non-politicians and their relatives is also extremely important. Here we can give a thought to pre-school staff, school staff and social services, who are also subjected to threats and harassment because of decisions they make to carry out what we politicians have decided. This also applies to journalists. We already have a backward media coverage in the countryside today. If it is the case that threats and harassment are another way of getting journalists and newspapers not to write about certain things, democracy is in danger. In these words, I support the committee's proposal and I am very pleased that it is also being announced that the government should come back with a tightening up of categories other than politicians and their relatives.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-256	Madam President, I would like I hope someone kills you and gets a very short sentence. That would be wonderful. Weakly gifted idiots like you shouldn't rule Sweden. ..................................................... It was the first email in my inbox when after the weekend leave I sat in front of the computer on Monday. I hope someone kills you. I began to wonder – killing is about the same as killing. But it's not a threat to me from the e-mail printer, because someone else is going to kill me. That's how my mind turned. It wasn't about fear of getting an email like that-- it's more of a habit-- it's about thinking about whether the police will perceive it as a threat or not. Is the e-mail rough enough? This is how common it is to receive e-mails like this. I am not alone; I am convinced that everyone in this House has received something similar. Sweden's democracy is based on hundreds of thousands of leisure politicians sitting on municipal councils, regional councils and boards. These are people with a common job, who in their free time engage in politics and to make difficult decisions, to take responsibility and to pursue their policies. Sweden does not have a system where politicians are full-time employees and earn a lot of money. Some of us do, of course, – gladly lower our salaries and place higher demands on us. But most of them are burning heroes who fight for socialism, liberalism or conservatism. That is precisely why hatred, threats and harassment against politicians make – and have always done – me so upset and committed. This has been the case since I received my first municipal assignment in 2007 in Linköping municipality until today. What's constant is all the evening meetings, the coffee drinking and the hate. I'm refined. I've got people convicted in court. But it's them in Young Left I'm thinking of, or those in M uf, Green Youth or L uf. I am thinking of all the young people who are burning, who think, who think, who want to shape another society and who are met with adult hatred, threats, harassment or even worse things. This is a threat to the democratic fabric of Sweden and to all that we in this House are fighting for. That is why this issue is so important. We must put an end to the threats to elected representatives, regardless of their position. I'm ready to take this fight, along with everyone else. Let's do it! That is why the government proposal is good. The Left Party supports the proposal for a new penalty base. However, I support it not primarily for us MPs – after all, we have relatively good protection – but for all Luf: are, M uf: are, C uf: are, Young Left members and Green radicals as in a few years' time to stand in this speaker's own chair.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-265	Madam President, I would like In today's society, there are groups that try to influence democracy through threats and violence against various functions in society. Today's debate – or rather the cross-party consensus that exists – concerns the government's proposal for a law enforcement, which strengthens criminal law protection in cases of breaches of elected representatives on the basis of their mandate. Our society is based on people engaging politically in various missions at different levels. It is important that our society gives a clear signal that violence to influence democracy is not acceptable. It is serious that the democratic and representative system is being threatened by crimes committed by elected representatives when they have a political mission in which, on the basis of the values and commitment that they have, they are trying to change and improve society. We Christian Democrats share the view that there is a need for enhanced criminal protection in order to protect democracy and that such protection should be achieved by means of a new penalty base. We share the view that elected representatives, as the political representatives of the people, are worthy of protection in a democracy and that crimes against them can be harmful to democracy. Violent political groups, as well as individuals, can exercise violence and threats to political profits and to try to influence political decisions for their own benefit. What is problematic, however, is that there are a number of other categories of people who are also worthy of protection. The Christian Democrats agree with the criticism of the referral bodies that the bill identifies certain groups as more protective than others. While the bill mentions journalists and debaters, health professionals and other categories of persons are not included in the protection against violence and threats to officials. These groups are also very important and need greater protection in our eyes. Madam President, I would like The elected representatives are a very important part of the democratic and political process, but there are many others that are also important. Journalists and editors, for example, have been exposed to threats, violence and sabotage in recent years. It is therefore regrettable that it may appear that elected representatives only make laws that lift elected representatives as extra-protected with a special penalty base. Of course, we support the bill. We are also pleased that a united committee in an announcement to the government shares our view that the government should return as soon as possible with proposals that address the issue in a more comprehensive way, where systemic and democratic crime is also covered against other socially important functions to a greater extent than in the current proposal. Against this background, I therefore call for approval of the committee's decision to endorse the government's legislative proposals and the committee's announcement to the government.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-273	Madam President, I would like It is easy for the Liberals to call for approval of the committee's proposal in the report and, not least, for the important addition made by the committee to a declaration to the government on the return of the protection of journalists. Our democracy is perhaps our most important infrastructure to ensure. We can debate for a long time in this House on boundaries in all directions in terms of distribution, what we should invest in in order to create growth, and so on. But nothing is so important for the citizens of Sweden as a stable and sustainable democracy. We know that democracy cannot be taken for granted. It's been abolished before. The threats are significant in the global arena. It is a rather sad development with the victory of left-wing populism or right-wing populism here and there and with dictatorships who have the ambition to do everything to counteract open liberal democracy. We also have what is the subject of this debate: the pure hatred of people, of which my colleagues in the committee have given fine testimony. I do not go into the t, m an it hunts everyone who gets exposed and thus risks to tire out and leave his mission. But the effect is that it also scares away others. Democracy works a little like people doing military service. The point is not that we should be elected to Parliament, to the Council of Hällefors or to Region Skåne. The important thing is that there are many who contribute and that you can switch. The threat and hatred chase away and lead to apathy and fatigue. So this proposal is welcome to give us strength. It is also a message from society that we are aware that democracy is perhaps our most important infrastructure and that we want to protect it. For the Liberals, it has always been clear, and we have pushed this issue, that officials who, in the exercise of their authority, are to take difficult decisions should also be given extra protection. Not least local decisions on different permits and so on affect. We know that there are problems with growing threats there. But there is also greater protection of criminal law, which is important. Now it is we who make the decisions about the laws themselves that must be protected. There is a logic in that it should be unassailable. In the latest report from Brå, which the Liberals have taken note of, it is clear that the threats are increasing. The proportion of very strange or, for that matter, disturbed people who are involved in writing or sending strange packages to elected representatives or who perhaps even more seriously show up and physically harasses are increasing. We also know that the propensity to notify is very low, because we do not have confidence that we will move forward with it legally. It also leads to a risk of self-censorship, so that elected representatives do not dare to raise sensitive and uncomfortable issues because they are afraid that it may lead to increased threats or hatred. Mr President, I would like to It is easy to support the proposal in this report, not least the addition that journalists must also be protected. They are also part of our democratic infrastructure.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-282	Mr President, I would like to Having a political position of trust is a favor. It provides the opportunity to influence and change society in the small and the large. If you are a bit philosophical, you can say that it is an important part of the purpose of life to influence the world we live in. It is also something that, for many of us who are involved, gives something personal back. We make connections, sometimes for life. And we learn things. When I meet young people who visit the Parliament House or elsewhere, I always say that if you are interested in social issues, you should try joining a youth association. It doesn't cost anything, but it can bring back an incredible amount. Mr President, I would like to The Green Party has a vision that everyone will at some point try to hold a political position of trust. It is not certain that everyone will be interested in it, but I think it is right to have such a vision, such a view of participation in society. We will do what we can to make policy accessible and enable as many as possible to have such a mission at some point. If more people can hold positions of trust, more will also learn about the difficulty of making political priorities and see that it is not always as easy to make decisions as it might first appear. We have serious conflicts of interests in the municipal council or parliament that we have to confront each other. It's complex. Mr President, I would like to We have elected representatives who support democracy in 290 municipalities, in 20 regions and in the Riksdag. It's in boards, in the council and on company boards. Some do it full - time or part - time. But most people do it in their spare time. With all the opportunities it offers, there will also be a cost. It is a favor, but it can also be an anxiety. To some extent it comes with a price tag that you get to take; you spend time on evenings and weekends. But it can also come with a cost that must never be accepted and which I am pleased that there is a broad consensus that we must fight. This is when threats, hatred or even violence come against elected representatives. The closeness of democracy is a strength. But it can also bring the threats closer. It is particularly common when decisions are made that are unpopular, which are boring but sometimes need to be taken. This is particularly the case in the case of reductions or closures of activities. And it is not least health politicians, school politicians or elected representatives in social welfare boards around the country who are exposed. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-288	Mr President, I would like to A safer society and a stronger Sweden should include and apply to everyone everywhere. You should feel safe no matter which street you happen to walk and which area you happen to live in, no matter where you move in the community in the evenings, weekends or other times. No one should have to be subjected to threats, hatred and violence because one's job is to protect other people or maintain security and security. We Social Democrats support the government proposal. The Bluelight investigation, which presented its interim report in January 2018, concluded that there is a need for enhanced criminal protection through further criminalisation of attacks on the police, civil protection and ambulance services. Enhanced criminal law protection for these activities helps them to fulfil their important social mission and also increases the security and respect of those who work in these activities. We clearly show that society is united against crime and behind these people and important social functions. The main reasons for strengthening the protection of these particular activities are that they are in a special position where it is ultimately a matter of protecting people's lives and health. These are activities that are per minute operating and performed mobilely. Together with enhanced criminal protection for blue light activities, the scale of penalties for aggravated violence or threats to officials is also tightened. The proposal is based on the fact that there is a risk of undue influence on public authorities' decision-making and that this danger needs to be taken very seriously. However, Mr President, the investigation also noted that the problem of attacks on blue light activities is such that it cannot be solved solely or even largely through criminal proceedings. In particular, the situation in the vulnerable areas needs to be met with efforts from many sectors of society, such as breaking exclusion, strengthening trust in public authorities and creating real opportunities to enter the labour market. Criminal law is therefore only one tool among many to ensure social security. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to touch briefly on the reservations we have regarding the announcements by the committee. Several of these announcements are already in place and are the subject of work within the Government Office, which is why we do not see reasons to make further announcements. There are, of course, other social functions and professions that are also subjected to violence, threats and harassment. The new penalty for attacks on blue light activities therefore includes criminal liability involving violence or threats of violence against persons assisting blue light operations. The social functions involved in the exercise of public authority are to a large extent covered by the enhanced protection of criminal law. However, other professions do not do so, such as health care staff, which may, of course, be regarded as belonging to the circle of important social functions. It is not easy to make boundaries for what and what social functions should be covered by new categories of offences or penalties. The moment we point out a few voices are raised because there should also be more. It is therefore important that the work on how we proceed is investigated and prepared so that we can get legislation and protection that both clarifies society's attitude and becomes applicable in practice. With regard to the issue of own criminal code for violence against officials, the issue is prepared on the basis of previous announcements. Furthermore, with the proposed increase in the minimum penalty for gross violence against officials, there is room for stricter penalties for offences of the standard level. Police violations are dealt with in the Final Report of the Bluelight Investigation and are also being prepared. Hospital staff, health centres and other health institutions face threats and violence in their daily lives. Work is now under way to review the need for further legislative measures to strengthen the protection of societal functions, in particular in relation to health professionals, is therefore urgent. This is also in line with the announcement that we have previously supported. Mr President, I would like to Finally, in order to create greater security and security in society, especially for those whose task is to save and protect, there is a need not only for one solution but for several. We need to increase and tighten up criminal protection. One of the most important factors in reducing the vulnerability of police officers is to increase the number of police officers. The new police officers will also be present locally throughout the country in people's everyday lives. It is about police officers in external service who build relationships with citizens in order to create security and security. Society as a whole must contribute to further work. This was borne out by the police in the mapping work that was included in the b låbljusutningen. Last but perhaps most of all, we need to increase equality and reduce poverty and segregation, which create social unrest. It is the best way to reduce the influx of new criminals.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-303	Mr President, I would like to This debate has come about because, unfortunately, in recent years we have seen a great many threats to police and civil protection workers and to health care workers. We have also been able to see how this has taken on new forms, for example in the case of gang conflicts that took place inside the emergency departments of our hospitals. Criminals simply pose a threat to both patients and employees there. This is something we have had to get used to in recent years. We can never accept this development. It must never be a new normal state. We must do everything in our power to break this. It is both a matter of protecting people who have important social tasks and of safeguarding respect for the rule of law and the most fundamental functions of society. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, for many of these professions, threats, harassment and violence have become the closest thing to everyday life. Any attack on blue-light personnel and other members of the judiciary and other central social institutions constitutes an attack on our legal system. This must be reflected in a much clearer way than it is today in our legislation, with stricter penalties for threats and violence against blue light personnel, but also against people working in health care and customs. These are issues that we Moderates have been pushing for years. This is probably also the area where the most announcements have been made over the years. It continues in this report. It is positive that new legislation on enhanced protection for blow-light personnel will enter into force at the turn of the year. It is important, and it will make a difference. There are a couple of welcome changes that mean more severe penalties for aggravated violence or threats against civil servants and a new criminal classification for so-called blue light abotage. At the same time, we in the Moderates believe that the bill lacks important components. Among other things, it overlooks the fact that customs officials and Coast Guard officials often carry out purely operational operations together with the police. It is therefore a little strange that the police are given more comprehensive and comprehensive criminal protection compared with customs officials in such situations. It is therefore appropriate that the enhanced criminal protection now granted to bluelight personnel should also include customs and Coast Guard officials in their law enforcement work. In strengthening the role of the Customs Agency as a law enforcement authority, it is justified to provide customs officials with the same criminal protection as police officers. It also calls for the penalties for all forms of violent attacks on officials to be tightened up. Unfortunately, the government has chosen not to even investigate the Moderates' proposal, which a majority in the Riksdag has supported, about increased penalties for violence against health care personnel, among other things. It is regrettable that civil protection and health workers in particular will therefore have to wait even longer for stronger criminal protection in their important professional activities. Mr President, I would like to In order to capture the seriousness of a violent attack on, for example, a police officer or a customs official, we Moderates want to break out the rule of violence against officials, which is now regulated in the same provision as threats against officials, and make it a personal offence with a scale of penalties starting with six months' imprisonment. In practice, this would mean, for example, that a fist punch on the face of a police officer or a customs officer would receive a penalty of at least six months' imprisonment, compared with today's approximately one to two months' imprisonment. This is therefore a penalty which would lead to a much longer prison sentence for those who have the exceptionally poor judgment to attack officials who carry out their important work. Mr President, I would like to We want the compensation to be paid in more cases than today when police officers are victims of crime. With the Comitology Directive for the Bluelight Investigation, the Government decided that the investigation should map out various court decisions concerning the right of police officers to compensation in the event of serious violations. But it was not able to present a proposal. However, we believe that such a change of law is highly justified and should not be allowed to delay. Today, more demands are made for damages in the form of violation compensation when it is to be paid to, for example, police officers who are victims of crime. Indeed, in practice, there are relatively high claims for compensation in these cases. We therefore believe that a new investigation should be set up with the aim of proposing appropriate legislative changes aimed at ensuring that the compensation for violations can be paid in more cases than at present when police officers are victims of crime. For example, spitting a cop in the face should always lead to damages. The same should apply when policemen are subjected to violence that is comparable to assault of the normal level. Society's reactions to this type of attack must be very clear. It is both a matter of protecting people who have important social tasks and of safeguarding respect for our rule of law. Everyone should be able to feel safe at work, and crimes should always punish themselves. The report proposes six different announcements. I suppose that also says something about where the political initiative is on these issues, as in many other matters, perhaps even the vast majority of matters that we are dealing with in the Committee on Justice. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but I choose to endorse only reservation No 8.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-315	Mr President, I would like to There has long been political agreement that opening borders and promoting cultural segregation would lead to harmonious cultural exchanges and prosperous growth. The Swedish Democrats were long alone in realizing that this policy would put serious strain on our society and on the Swedish police. The Swedish Democrats were the first to propose more trained police officers in the autumn of 2015. We have put forward proposals for, among other things, a targeted wage and paid police training in order to make it possible to achieve the goal of more police officers. But the police profession suffers from much more than a historically poor wage development. This is particularly true when it comes to police security. The Police Association has recently conducted a study showing that threats and violence have become more common in the last two years. 63 percent of police officers feel that threats and violence against police officers have increased. Violence is more subtle, and nearly one in ten police officers report that their profession has been the cause of threats to loved ones. Among police officers, 42% have indicated that they themselves have been subjected to threats, violence or harassment. In the intervention activities, the figure is as much as 74%. The security of police officers needs to be placed at least as high on the political agenda as the goal of more police officers. Today, gang crime is a major and increasing threat to society and to those responsible for prosecuting criminals. Then it is the duty of politicians to protect those whom we expect to stand at the front and do the job. The Swedish Democrats have previously proposed a series of measures to strengthen the security of individual police officers and clearly indicate that an attack on a police officer is also an attack on society. The proposals include a substantial increase in salaries, the right of police officers to carry weapons out of service, easier protection of police data, anonymity in reports for police officers working against organised crime and a strengthening of the right to compensation for violations. In addition to all these proposals, which we have highlighted in our police programme, we are now dealing in Parliament with the issue of strengthening criminal law protection for bluelight personnel, which we have been advocating since 2016. The proposal imposes criminal liability on the person who attacks or otherwise interferes with the police, rescue services or ambulance services, if the act is liable to seriously impede or impede emergency or law enforcement activities. It is very welcome that this is now being discussed in Parliament, but there are groups doing such jobs that, according to the Government's proposal, will not enjoy the same protection. This applies, among other things, to Customs and Coast Guard staff, but also to security guards and security guards. In practice, increased organised crime, widespread crime and insecurity, which the police do not have the resources to deal with, force operators to buy security services from private companies. This means that those who enter and strengthen society and the judiciary also have a legitimate claim for more protection. In February, a security guard was attacked and robbed in Sigtuna. In April it happened in Härnösand, in July in Eskilstuna and in October in Rinkeby. The list can be done much longer. Guardians and other personnel contributing to order and security are exposed to threats and violence on a regular and catastrophic basis. Unfortunately, the government is turning a deaf ear. The government lacks the capacity to act in the fight against crime and insecurity. With the social effort and the work of security guards and others, it is very remarkable that the government does not intend to include these professions in the reinforced blue light protection. We see that security guards and others who step in and take responsibility for security in areas that the police do not have time to deal with are affected by the violence that the ordinary police do not manage to fight. As a result of the current police shortage, others cover that shortage when needed. This is done precisely by security guards and guards. It is security guards and security guards who are to a large extent allowed to take the security-building tasks that are traditionally the responsibility of the police. All our heroes who move out there and have a mission to protect ordinary honest people should feel that they have our full support. Their families should know that there is a shield of security and that we as politicians have taken all the steps we can to ensure that they can carry out their tasks in the safest possible way. Orderkeepers are an extension of the police, and they often work alone in vulnerable situations. The intention is not that security guards should replace police officers. In an ideal world, they should serve as a complement. But that is not how it works at present, and then they must be given the protection they need and deserve. We have a direct moral responsibility to stand up for our safety carriers, no matter what color they wear on the uniform, what their rank or title is and what area or context they move in. The Swedish Democrats have previously highlighted this problem: that professionals with order and security as their focus are not covered by the enhanced protection. Now other parties join us and intend to give other professional groups full protection. It is to be welcomed that a majority in the Committee on Justice is now once again pushing the government forward in the field of criminal policy. The Swedish Democrats have been involved in producing six announcements. They concern, for example, the extension of criminal law protection for socially important professional functions and the extension of the right to compensation for offences against police officers. Even with regard to the proposed penalty, there is reason to question how the government has reasoned. The government proposes two weeks of imprisonment as the lowest penalty for crimes of the standard grade. However, a statement on the inviolability of the judiciary and the police forces must be clear and have a real consequence for those who commit a crime against our police and other law enforcement personnel. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose a minimum sentence of one year's imprisonment and imprisonment of up to four years for offences of the standard grade and at least four years and up to life for serious crime. With this, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 2.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-332	Mr President, I would like to The bluelight staff will pull out when we need it most. It is part of the heroes of welfare who devote their daily lives to situations of crisis, panic and helplessness. It is, as in all other jobs, a matter of having a good working environment. It is a question of not being subjected to crime or to situations that make one's work difficult. But the bluelight personnel have been exposed. It has ranged from stoning to attack. That, of course, is totally unacceptable. This is why work environment work is so important in all workplaces. On this issue, it is also a question of neo-criminalisation and the introduction of a new crime. Sabotage against bluelight personnel will now be in the penal code, and that is good. It will be prohibited to attack or otherwise prevent police, rescue and ambulance services. Attacks on bluelight personnel can lead to a kind of discrimination in such a way that residents in vulnerable areas have less access to society's functions of protection, rescue and care than residents in other areas. The Left Party supports the government's proposal. Indeed, many of the documents covered by the new crime are already criminalised. But the government has a preference for criminalising what is already forbidden, so it must continue to do so. The new offence is important in order to show the seriousness of the crime, but we do not believe that it will have a particular preventive effect. Social problems are not solved by new crimes. Conflicts with blue light personnel, mainly the police, are based on completely different phenomena. There are five risk factors that are central to such forms of conflict. These are living conditions, social and territorial stigmatisation, population composition, alienation in relation to society and various forms of violence. This is not about a small number of people throwing stones and misbehaving. It is a symptom of a society that is being pulled apart economically and socially, where the elite are being pitted against the working class. We must have a Sweden for everyone, not just for the rich. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the important consultation of the trade union Kommunal, where it highlights the fundamental problem that today fewer staff are involved in expressions than before. It is a question of resources in welfare and of strengthening long-term security with better staffing and increased resources instead of tax cuts for the rich. The biggest criticism the Left Party has about the proposal is the design of the punishment, that serious crime should lead to life imprisonment. The Left Party wants to abolish the life sentence. It is a well-known opinion that I debated last week's debate on the life sentence for murder, among other things. I am not going to repeat myself and extend the debate, Mr President, but am content to ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-339	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Government's proposed legislative amendments to strengthen the criminal law protection of central bluelight operations and the exercise of authority. For more than a decade, a new type of crime has established itself in Sweden. There are crimes against emergency vehicles like fire brigades, police and ambulances. These are attacks on public transport, and they are attacks on social services and hospitals. In their report, the police write out areas that are vulnerable – social order, criminal structure and challenges for the police that, for example, domestic and social services are subjected to harassment. This applies both to threats to individual administrators and damage to buildings. Examples can be found from all over our country, for example from Mönsterås, Salem and Örnsköldsvik. According to a report from the Police Federation, seven out of ten police officers experience increased exposure to threats and violence in the last two years. Criminals arrested threaten the police by telling them that they know where they live and know their family members. This is something that society must react sharply to. When a police officer is threatened, the rule of law is threatened. The police must be protected. However, attacks on vital social functions do not stop at social services or police. Threats to healthcare professionals are increasing in hospitals in several major cities around Sweden. A study shows that it is not only in the three major cities of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö that the threatening situations are increasing. The problems also increase in hospitals in Norrköping, Borås, Västerås and Uppsala. Threats and violence in healthcare and long-term care lead to psychological, physical and economic consequences for the victim, the workplace and society. Both care recipients and employees may experience concerns about being subjected to violence in healthcare. What is happening in Sweden today is unfortunately a continuation of what has been going on for a long time. It has started with vandalisation, then continued with stone stones against public transport and police and then continued with attacks against fire brigades and health professionals. That spiral of violence has now entered the hospital as well. Mr President, I would like to Overall, all of this contributes to a concerted attack on vital social functions that seriously break down basic norms in society. If a social services office or hospital cannot be protected from attack, there will soon be no places in the community that are. It is particularly serious that attacks befall those who try to save lives, which is a fundamental task for the state. In the case of attacks on persons employed in vital functions, penalties should be increased, especially if the attacks are organised. Offences against vital functions of society should be a special penalty. Strong action is needed to address the problems. Of course, health professionals have experience in dealing with complicated patients. But it's one thing to have a troublesome patient and another to deal with large groups of people who want to hurt either the patient or the staff. Therefore, more measures are needed that strengthen the safety of patients and staff and that the police have the conditions to prevent disorder. Unauthorised people who enter hospitals and who disrupt order, threaten staff and make care difficult must be able to be more easily rejected from the site. Mr President, I would like to In its proposal, the Government has chosen to ignore the clear will of the Riksdag not only to tighten the penalties for attacks on bluelight personnel but also to tighten the penalties for attacks on vital social functions and to tighten the safety of hospitals. This has been announced in several reports. But the government has chosen not to act after the Riksdag's decision. This is particularly serious given the situation that has arisen in Sweden in recent years. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats support the proposed legislative changes that strengthen the protection of the important functions of the police, fire brigade and ambulance. However, since the draft law is, in our opinion, without vital elements, it is positive that a majority of the committee, like in previous years, makes an announcement to the government to act. It is a matter of focusing on the necessary changes in criminal law protection for more areas than this proposal states. That's six announcements. Among other things, the Customs and Coast Guard staff must have the same criminal protection as police officers have, the penalties for crimes related to attacks against important social functions be tightened, there must be an extended right for police officers to receive compensation for violations and there is a review of what further measures can be taken to increase the safety of hospitals. We Christian Democrats are in favour of the legislative proposal and of the declarations made by the committee.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-350	Mr President, I would like to In the best of worlds, this report would be completely unnecessary. In the very best of worlds, violence and threats would not exist, either against alarm staff or against anyone else. In the second best of worlds, new laws would not be needed because violence and threats are already regulated by law and are subject to criminal liability. Anyone who threatens, sabotages and prevents the heroes of these societies who are trying to save lives is already committing criminal acts in force. Unfortunately, however, we have seen too many examples of the law not being able to curb a worrying development on this point. We need new laws that clarify the seriousness with which society views this type of crime. There is now a broad consensus here in Parliament – well so. Perhaps it is a sign of a lack of trust in society that even the one who pulls out to save a person's life is considered by some to represent a central power that they do not trust. Perhaps it is a brutal example of how bad it can be when we do not allow people to use their full potential to participate in society. Perhaps some may feel that they have so little to lose that even what we others consider to be the most basic is of no value to them. Maybe some people don't understand the seriousness. Perhaps others are driven by a desire to destroy and create chaos. Mr President, I would like to It can really be how it wants to be with that thing. Let's put our foot down for this kind of ups and downs. Anyone who is guilty of the kind of crime that we address here has to expect to spend a long time behind bars. So for the good of all, don't! One issue that I and the Center Party have been working on for a long time is that even police officers should be protected from serious violations when they do their important job. We are several parties that have paid attention and worked on this. In a noted sentence that came a few years ago, it was established that a police officer should withstand a fist punch in the face. No, Mr President, no one should have to tolerate a fist in the face or elsewhere in his professional practice! Sure, cops are the tip that faces the danger when the rest of us want to pull the other way. But they, like everyone else, are protected by the law and should also be entitled to compensation, just like everyone else, when they are subjected to an unacceptable violation. This is something that we have had an announcement of before, but there is every reason to underline it in this report. No one should think we've changed our minds. Mr President, I would like to It is not just police and civil protection personnel who are affected, and the criminal protection that we are now establishing for them must also include other socially important functions. Customs staff is one of the groups addressed in an announcement. I would like to mention them in particular because they have an extremely important role to play in our efforts to increase security throughout the country. Their role will be strengthened, their powers increased, and the resources they have to work with will be increased. The flow of weapons and illegal drugs into Sweden creates enormous insecurity through gun violence and organised crime. Traveling theft gangs that ravage mainly in places where the nearest police are far away try to take the stolen goods out of the country. Customs plays an important role in combating both these flows and, as well as more socially important functions, must also reasonably benefit from increased criminal law protection. We are also announcing today that violence against civil servants should be introduced. In preparing this, the investigator should also look at the professional categories to be covered by the protection of officials. There is reason to look at whether, for example, the firefighters should have this protection. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have contributed valuable input from their professional day-to-day work in my work on the report. I know that some firefighters from Farsta fire station are listening to the debate right now... if they haven't responded to any alarm, of course. Many thanks both for the work you do and for the literally vital work you do every day!
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-362	Mr President, I would like to There are two debates today that are connected a little bit. We were just talking about the importance of having relevant levels of punishment for people who go after elected representatives, and we have ordered new proposals from the government that will also include journalists. Now it is the people who apply the laws that we are supposed to protect. So it is people who are engaged in maintaining law and order in the front line. It can be understood somewhere that conflicts sometimes arise and that serious criminal gangs do not always think like the police. They feel that they should be allowed to continue their criminal activities and that the police can go somewhere else. But, Mr President, it is even more bizarre that people go after, throw stones and in other ways attack fire brigades or ambulances. It makes no sense to any normal human being. For the Liberals, it is easy to support the report. We welcome this, we have talked about it for a long time and asked for it. There have been previous announcements to the government, but we would like to point out that we would like to see protection also being taken forward. Customs and coastguards were mentioned. I share that view, and we believe that other socially important functions should be given the enhanced protection set out in six different announcements to the government that it must continue to work on. This applies not least to the fact that there may be security guards and others who protect people who come badly shot from the street into the emergency room. Then there are staff there to sustain and save lives on these people, and they are attacked for this. Mr President, I would like to This leads me to support the committee's proposals in the report and the announcements that are there. The Liberals are very clear about that. But we also need to move on with this and ask ourselves, How can it be like this? There are two major trends that need to be tackled at the same time. On the one hand, we must make enormous efforts which are very much about prevention. It's about extremely broken environments with severely confused, at best, young people. The young people who are in our most vulnerable areas and are engaged in attacking the police, fire brigade or ambulance hopefully do not know their own best. They can be controlled, and they can be under the influence of drugs. We'll make sure they get something else to do so that they don't think about doing this. Prevention is therefore important here. The people who, on the other hand, are engaged in attacking and threatening the police or other authorities for quite different reasons, i.e. serious organised crime, must face something else. If the former group, the young, is to meet with a solid latticcante in the neck skin, the others must meet with a steel glove where only incapacitation and long rehabilitation are counted. It is a reflection on this. I think we can make these laws now. We are going to press the buttons this afternoon, and this is from the turn of the year. But we also need to do other things, because these are only symptoms of the rather serious developments we can see in the country and of which we Liberals are warning. We have had a so-called meeting or Parliamentary Session – a country meeting as it is called in the Liberals – this weekend where we talked a lot about the importance of lifting our most vulnerable suburbs. This is not just a question of police operations and security guards, it is a lot of focus on everything from the living environment to making interventions of a social nature for the young people who do this. You live in a mental ice age if you throw stones at the fire department. Something is simply seriously wrong. I shall make a reflection after very good contributions from the members of the committee. It is borne in mind that we must constantly make such detailed changes. But it should be clear, Mr President, that you are not throwing stones at any human being. Actually, you don't throw stones at any other living creature. But the legal tradition that we have in this country – we are based on continental European and Nordic law, where the principle of legality requires us to show exactly every prop in a sharpening direction – means that we have to make the legislative product that we are working on now. It is, therefore, this report and what we talked about earlier today. But basically we should consider having a form in which it becomes quite obvious that a court can see this. Nevertheless, it is a weakness in our legal system, I would say, that it is much more serious why things are done – what the background is, what the purpose is to commit a crime. Then this would solve itself. Now we come back to serious crimes, they are extremely serious crimes, they are minor crimes, they are middle crimes, and so there are different scales of penalties, all because we want to tighten this up all the time. You get upset – I was saying crazy, Mr President, but it is a bad word – when you take note of how slowly it is possible to move forward. Now, however, we have the legal tradition we have and get to like the situation. But we need to have a broad debate on what the future Swedish criminal law should look like, not least in a context where we are increasingly integrated into the Nordic countries and throughout Europe. There our legal tradition will be constantly changing. It has been for 2 000 years, and it will be for a few thousand more years. This will then be resolved in other ways, of which I am absolutely convinced. With the small philosophical statement on continental European law, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal, not least with regard to the announcements.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-377	Mr President, I would like to Economic crime is a serious social problem, ranging from accidental crimes to planned schemes for profit. Annually, huge sums of money disappear from society in taxes and charges, money is paid to people and businesses on the wrong grounds and serious companies are forced to compete in a distorted market. Simple and clear rules for companies are important, especially when it comes to procurement. That's where the doors are closed for tax evasion, mispayments and undeclared work. Too many companies have been used as a crime tool and faked procurements that are then never delivered. Order and order, collective agreements and fair terms are the basis for companies that do the right thing. According to the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency, it is becoming increasingly common for serious criminals to start companies whose only business idea is to commit financial crime. The border between the criminal world and established business is beginning to blur. Stock companies are the most favorable form of crime. Out of 100 new companies set up in Sweden, 7 are used solely to commit crimes. It is important to stop criminal companies. That is why these crimes must be given higher priority. The requirement for share capital must be increased and audit obligations imposed on smaller limited liability companies must be introduced. We must also have an updated strategy against economic crime. In this matter, the Left Party largely supports the government proposal, but we have submitted a specific opinion on how we want to stop violations of our common welfare and tax system.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-382	Mr President, I would like to This report may be unanimous, but it is not always entirely self-evident that the criminality that hides behind the façade of limited companies should be pursued with great clarity in order to drain our society on our common resources, gain advantages, compete with other good entrepreneurs and collect plenty of money instead of engaging in honest work. I would just like to emphasise here that the Liberals are very pleased that we have reached this level of punishment. For financial institutions engaged in money laundering for Russian oligarchs and arms dealers – yes, they can do most – the penalty fee is now rising in an overall assessment from 10 million to 500 million. That, I would like to stress, is a penalty that marks the seriousness. It is gratifying that the whole Parliament has been alert in 2019 and realises that we can only pursue financial crime by targeting the companies themselves. It's supposed to sting when you're dealing with serious crime.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-386	Mr President, I would like to It may seem almost self-evident that what has been called regions for years in practice should now finally be able to be legislated as the same. At the same time, in a historical perspective, it is an important event for Swedish society. Landstingen has been a concept for generations. They were introduced in the 1862 municipal reform as a then rather extensive decentralisation reform. Already in the Middle Ages there were county councils, then as the name of the highest decision-making bodies in the provinces – not to be confused with the counties. The proposal that has now been developed during a very detailed process and discussion, not least on the basis of local and regional initiatives along the way, is based on the current conditions and challenges for the future based on what is required in terms of communications, the labour market and accumulated resources for healthcare and services. According to the Government's proposal which we have today to adopt a position on, the former name county council is changed to a region. This means, Mr President, a series of changes in a number of areas. The documents contain proposals for 161 different legislative amendments to this change. In many cases, the changes are of an editorial nature. However, they also include amendments to the Freedom of the Press Regulation, which is why it is proposed, as a constitutional issue, as a suspension. Two legal technical co-ordinations have also taken place with the Education Committee and the Defence Committee in relation to the Government's proposals for amendments to the Act on Responsibility for Good Research Practice and Examination of Unfairness in Research and in the Protection Act. The report proposes an announcement. For my part, Mr President, I would like to support the reservation put forward by the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party. With reference to the Government's proposal, I would like to point out that specific reasons should be required for a decision on a change in the classification of county councils or regions against the will of a region concerned. With regard to the other amendments, too, I agree with the considerations and proposals of the Government. The motion by the Swedish Democrats, which now seems to be supported by several, emphasises that the regional demarcation is not only about effective administration but also about democratic legitimacy. Therefore, according to the exercise, special, not special, reasons should be required to change this division. There is what I see no reason to put these two concepts, efficiency and democracy, against each other in this case. Specific reasons, as I see it, are sufficiently strong. It goes without saying that democratic support is of great importance and is provided for in the current proposal. As can be emphasised in this context, the state has overall responsibility for the country and needs to take a broad perspective. So, too, to refer to the exercise, it has been in a historical perspective. In the long term, it is about access to well-functioning care and services, jointly funded by all residents and with strong cooperation with the municipalities in the region. The division that is now being carried out must have a durability over time. There are, as I see it, reasons for having different rules on the views of the population in the case of changes in the regional classification in relation to changes in the classification of municipalities. The regional classification is dependent on the regional classification, as is clear from the Local Government Act, which states that each region should include a county unless something else is prescribed. The perspective should be that the whole of Sweden, which is often emphasised, should live and develop. Health care, health care, public transport and regional development should be available and work in the best possible way. Regardless of which country or municipality it is based, this is a responsibility to emphasise in this context. The regions are the largest individual employers in Sweden, and that in itself also means a responsibility to take into account when we look at the long-term perspective. In this context, there are also discussions conducted by various parties regarding the headship of both health care and school in the future. There are also questions that can be put to the fore in this discussion. Mr President, I would like to It has been over 20 years since the first region was formed in Sweden. For my part, I was then, in a different role, the promoters of this change. It was then that Skåne's three county councils became Region Skåne. At the same time, the state also decided to merge the county boards of Kristianstad County and Malmöhus County into a joint county. It was the first initiative for regional formation in Sweden, and since then all county councils have taken the same steps. Some have been merged with other neighbouring county councils, others have chosen to call themselves regions but have remained the same boundaries as the county councils. We now have, for example, the Västra Götaland region – a merger of several – Region Gotland, Region Dalarna and Region Halland and others. When the regions have taken shape, this has been done on the basis of the commitment and interest of local and local authorities. Limits that have been perceived as obstacles for people in everyday life in terms of jobs, schools and trade have been adapted to new conditions. Regional development has been emphasised. Public transport and cooperation between municipalities, industry and academia have perhaps been the most tangible change. Cooperation and cooperation with the County Administrative Board are also of great importance and can be highlighted. We can also note from a European perspective that the Europe of the regions has become a reality. Here, Swedish regions can further participate in development and growth efforts. It can be about industry start-ups, tourism, academia and research. We can also consider opportunities for cross-border cooperation agencies – where the regions have been the driving force – with, for example, Swedish-Danish, Swedish-Norwegian or Swedish-Finnish perspectives. Mr President, I would like to The overall view is of great importance. The power and development potential of each locality, municipality or part of the country must be realised in the best way. The reservation to which I have called for approval here will provide this perspective with long-term sustainable development as the guiding principle.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-404	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, for an interesting speech with a lot of information but where we might not agree entirely! I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved as it is on the table of the House today. The reason is that I believe, and we believe, that it is important that the local selfgovernment that we have in this country through municipalities and regions is also based on initiatives that come from below. The colleague from the Social Democrats highlights the concepts of specific reasons versus exceptional reasons as to whether one can go against a region's willingness to merge with a neighbouring region. At the same time, it is important to highlight the point that this is not about preventing local initiatives from below that want to create synergies and synergies with neighbouring regions, but about creating essential and important obstacles to a state's ability to enter into regions and from above impose on them to join forces despite the fact that the people of the area concerned do not want this. The concept of special reasons sounds like a rather harsh formulation. I think special reasons in everyday speech are perceived as quite clear. At the same time, however, we know that specific reasons do not even come close to the concept of exceptional reasons. That is why the Constitutional Committee also decided to present a proposal for a declaration to the government in this report. It is true that the Constitutional Committee has made an announcement in the past on something similar and that the government now considers to be satisfied, not only handled or met but met. The reason why it is considered to be satisfied, I would argue, is that the Constitutional Committee uses in its work a moderate and versed language describing in a factual way what is the wish. However, it requires that the government that reads it and will take it to heart and then return to the House and Parliament with proposals that satisfy an announcement also sees the language as a moderate language and that it also reads the descriptive text about the background to an announcement to understand the intentions. Here it becomes clear, Mr President, that the government has read the announcement text and made the most sparse interpretation of what it might mean and yet returns to Parliament with a proposal that does not satisfy the intentions of the announcement, albeit perhaps the exact wording. That is why it is important, Mr President, for Parliament to make it clear to the government at this stage that, although the Constitutional Committee has a moderate language, it is not a language that can be taken lightly. That is why we are now proposing a clearer announcement that the legislation for the merger of regions should essentially be the same as for municipalities. The reasons for this are obvious. A state power should not have the ability to coerce municipalities-- that is already the case at present-- unless there are exceptional reasons. The same should apply to regions. The importance of referendums must be emphasised at this particular stage. In this context, referendums are an important way for the local population to express how they believe that the local self-government should be expressed and how it should be designed. Brave examples of ideas from the central government and the government have been marketed earlier in this process, such as Region Norrland where leisure politicians in Kiruna are expected to travel to evening meetings in Sundsvall in order to be able to exercise their role as representatives of the population in the local constituency and ideas where one would have to make further major changes to the local will in order to satisfy the government's own desire for how one would like to organise oneself. Mr President, I would like to I think it is more convenient if you want to reorganise the state that you start by looking at how the state can do this without running over local people's will about how to organise local self-government. It is an important part of our governance that there are prerequisites for the local people's willingness to have an impact in the work on how our local welfare will develop through municipalities and regions. Many important improvements, synergies and collaborations have been created from a bottom-up perspective. The previous speaker described how he himself has been a promoter of this, and I would say that, in my role as a municipal representative in a previous political life, I have also been a promoter of cooperation and cohesion. I come from a municipality, Huddinge, where the discussion about sharing the municipality is constantly alive and where we have had several referendums on the subject. Some believe that this would lead to better local government. I have personally been of a different opinion, and so have the people of Huddinge. The people do not want to break organizational structures to smaller parts at any given time. If you have convincing arguments and can convince the local population that it is right to merge and cooperate more across a larger geographical area, there should of course be no major obstacles to this. However, a government should not be able to force the merger of regions lightly or even for special reasons. That, Mr President, should be possible for exceptional reasons. Finally, I think there is reason to consider the way in which this has come to Parliament's table. If one was more suspicious than myself, one might assume that there have been attempts to hide this rather substantial change with fine formulations in a thick bill for it to slide through the Riksdag unnoticed. I can say that if you try to dribble away the Riksdag in this way, you have to expect that the Riksdag will finish the kitchen road, like Peter Forsberg.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-419	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to be adopted3. Much has already been said on this subject, and the previous speaker was eloquent and also expressed our views in a good way. Mr President, I would like to The report concerns a large number of laws, but I also intend, as the previous speaker has done to a large extent, to dwell on the laws of division for a moment. Sweden's regional and municipal divisions are often about historical boundaries and communities that have been created over hundreds of years and therefore have a strong popular base. The restrictions are therefore not only about effective management but also largely about democratic legitimacy. It is therefore important that the changes in classification are as widely accepted as possible by the population affected by them. Unfortunately, in the Government's proposal, the influence of residents and regions is smaller in the case of changes in regional classifications than in the case of changes in local government divisions. We are therefore very pleased that a majority of committees have been able to land in a joint text that the amendments to the classification law proposed by the government are a step in the right direction in terms of taking into account the views of the population but that they are not quite enough. Although changes in the regional classification can affect people's everyday lives as much as changes in the local government classification, there are still significant differences between the provisions to collect and take into account the views of the population in the Government's proposals. Among other things, special consideration should be given to the wishes and views of the population when changing the classification of municipalities, which we believe should be the case even when changes in the classification of regions are relevant. When there are reasons, a special study on the population's attitude to the change shall be carried out in connection with the examination of a divisional change for municipalities. The investigation may be carried out by means of a vote, an opinion poll or a similar procedure. Changes in the classification of municipalities must also take particular account of the wishes and views of the municipality(s) most closely affected by the change. If these municipalities are opposed to the modified classification, there are particular reasons for the change to be decided and implemented. In the event of a change in regionalisation, however, specific reasons should be sufficient, as proposed by the Government, thus a much more gentle wording. The Swedish democrats believe that it should be required particularly and not only for special reasons to change the classification of regions against the will of a region. Mr President, I would like to The committee believes that the government should return to the Riksdag with proposals for provisions to collect and take into account different views when changing the regional classification so that they essentially correspond to the provisions that apply to changes in the municipal classification. It is a view that we share, and we are very pleased that a majority of committees has reached that conclusion. This will ensure that future changes in regional classification will have greater popular support.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-428	Mr President, I would like to Today, as you know, we are debating the ratification of the controversial EU – the Cuba Agreement. This is happening at a time when we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall and the 70-year cooperation of the Council of Europe to promote democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Mr President, I would like to It is therefore somewhat strange to stand here at the same time with the knowledge that a parliamentary majority, contrary to what many of the perhaps most prominent human rights defenders from Cuba want to see, wishes to approve the agreement with Cuba's deeply undemocratic communist regime. It is an agreement in which the political opposition has been actively kept out of it. Rather, should we not remember why we stand here in the service of democracy? Should we not stand firm to fight for the democracy that is so obvious to us but which is far from obvious to many people around the world, including the Cubans? I rarely use the words of political opponents and quote them from the speaker's seat, but I thought it was time. Our pro-democracy offensive will be felt in all our foreign policy. It is about providing support and nutrition wherever democracy can grow and be critical when it is impoverished. I'm sure you'll recognize the words. They come from Margot Wallström and are part of the Government's foreign policy declaration in 2019. Those are fine words, but on a day like this they obviously mean nothing. The government is choosing, together with the Left Party and, surprisingly, even the Moderates, to ignore the warnings we have heard from exile Cubans and human rights defenders. It chooses to ratify an agreement which does not require change, and at the same time legitimises the repression of the Cuban Communist regime. In addition, the political opposition has, as has been said, been kept outside this agreement. Yet you choose to move on. Mr President, I would like to Cuban journalists, opposition leaders and others who have used the freedom of expression that is self-evident in our part of the world will find themselves in exactly the same conditions as before. And we have not yet seen any sign that the dictatorship will release all the political prisoners of the country. Moreover, the openly critical voices can only operate outside Cuba, precisely because of the censorship that prevails in the country. With the opening of the negotiations, we also saw the silence of the EU's criticism of Cuba in many cases. This silence hardly means that the Cuban people or various human rights defenders have been freed from state-sanctioned Cuban repression. On the contrary, the Cuban secret service has escalated this repression. Cuba's citizens, as a result of the country's censorship, are still referring to the Cuban media, governed by the Communist Party, for information. As you know, the Cuban National Assembly has adopted a new constitution. It could have been expected that this would involve radical changes, inter alia, in order to approve the EU agreement and to promote democratic development. But that was not the case. Instead, we see that it is not significantly different from the previous Constitution. We see how it confirms the one-party rule in Cuba. In other words, there is no sign of democratic development, and the hope of a positive development in the near future that many had a few years ago can be seen as blown away. Thus, approving this agreement also means giving legitimacy to the Communist one-party state, while at the same time failing to guarantee Cuba's democrats. How this is in line with the government's foreign declaration this year is something I have been asking myself for a long time before this debate. How can this be reconciled with the statements in the foreign declaration? We therefore know that the restrictions imposed by the Cuban Communist Party on freedom of expression, press and organisation can simply continue. This just happens to be the best way for them to prevent Cuban democracy activists from fighting for change. It will continue. We know that. They have shown no sign that it will change. For this reason, I am proud that the Swedish Democrats, together with some members of the Christian Democrats, opposed the proposal already in the European Parliament. Therefore, it is also with pleasure that I, in this Parliament, call for the reservation to be approved and therefore for ratification to be rejected. This is a callless and hollow agreement.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-439	Mr President, I would like to The agreement we are now discussing has been aching for a long time. Since 2014, when discussions began between the EU and the Cuban leadership on a new agreement, a great deal has happened. The basis for initiating this process was that we all saw that a change seemed to happen. An opening seemed to be underway. We could hear that during the 2010s they would suddenly be allowed to use mobile phones. Was it maybe 2014 that you got permission? They also had the opportunity to call beyond their own country. It was opened up to local economic activities. It was possible at least within certain frameworks to set up their own businesses. There was hope for a new development in Cuba too. Mr President, I would like to We had seen that Europe changed after the fall of the Berlin Wall. We thought, of course, that we would see a continuation here. But instead, we have seen something else. We have seen how the Cuban Communist leadership has confirmed its power and put it in the Constitution as non-reversible, that is, something that cannot be changed. A fairly short process has been developed which also makes it clear that all agreements in the multilateral system only apply in so far as they are consistent with the Cuban interpretation. Otherwise, contracts do not apply. The interpretation or reinterpretation that we now see going on in many countries and regimes and in many leaders of the increasingly authoritarian world in which we live is something we must be vigilant about and watch out for. We must not create a Potemkinism for actors and regimes that intend to reinterpret and change the multilateral systems that we have endorsed and signed. We know that they have been crucial to the development of the world in the post-war period. When I read in the Government's proposal that there are provisions on the basis of relations such as respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law, I do not see, Mr President, where to draw the basis for such wording. It cannot be in the new Cuban Constitution, adopted this year. The Government also considers that the agreement strengthens the EU's and Sweden's opportunities to promote democratic development and safeguard human rights in Cuba. From our point of view, political dialogue is important, Mr President. But one should be clear about what the political dialogue is about. You can't create a Potemkinskuliss for something that doesn't exist. Against this background, we would have liked the Parliament not to ratify this agreement, which a majority now seems to want to do. Instead, you should have let it rest. Together with two other countries, we have not yet ratified the agreement in the EU. We know that the EU is still acting as if the agreement is in principle in force. However, as long as it is not ratified, it may be a signal from a small country in the far north that claims human rights, democracy and the rule of law that we want to see another development here. This should be a line for the Swedish Government, unless we ratify this today, but also for the European Union and the European Commission. We need to show that we stand up for what we say about democracy, the rule of law and human rights according to the universal interpretations that we have believed apply to everyone. In all debates, we say that they apply to everyone. Obviously, however, other countries and regimes are disfellowshipping from them. When 391 Cuban human rights defenders wrote letters in which they stated that they did not think we should proceed with this, we hear in the Center Party their signals. We think that the government needs to show that it not only speaks beautifully about, in this case, human rights, but takes advantage of the opportunity to press the Cuban regime and also the European Commission. We would have liked this not to have been dealt with now, but that it could have been left in the office of the Foreign Affairs Committee during this term of office. The majority did not want this, which I regret. Against this background, I would like to express my support for the request for rejection contained in the report. It is not the right signal either for Cuban democracy and human rights fighters or for the region's fight for democracy and human rights to approve the agreement now.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-449	Mrs. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the joint reservation that the Parliament should reject the government's proposal on the EU – Cuba agreement. It is, of course, to be welcomed when steps are taken to strengthen political dialogue, but these steps must not be taken within the framework of the Cuban dictatorship's definition of human rights. Organisations working for freedom and respect for human rights have long been banned. They are regarded by the Communist Party as a threat to Cuban society. In spite of this, the picture in some places is that Cuba wants to open up to the outside world and develop in a more democratic direction. It is a picture that the Cuban regime has an interest in spreading and as left-wing and socialist parties around the world uncritically goes on. It is often pointed out that Cubans have become easier to travel abroad and that access to the internet has improved within the country. But it's an incomplete picture. The reality shows that, unfortunately, developments are moving in a completely different direction. Let me give you a few examples. Continuously, Cuban organisations testify to arbitrary arrests, harassment and imprisonments of people who gather to form opinion on various issues. Leading opponents even feel that repression has increased since the opening of negotiations on the Cuba Agreement a few years ago. Free and fair elections still shine with their absence. The municipal elections in November 2017 were held only after all forms of opposition had been banned. The new constitution that entered into force during the year states that the Communist Party continues to be the chief political force of society. Cuba as a one-party state remains. Here is another example: the country's new President, Díaz-Canel-Canel, was appointed in a closed process. The shift in the presidential post, which would be the end of Castro's rule, does not prevent it from continuing to be Raúl Castro who governs the Communist Party, the party that forbids political opposition. Mrs. Old President! The Christian Democrats will vote against the EU – the Cuba agreement, partly because there are no clear demands on the Cuban regime in terms of human rights and democratic reforms, and partly because the political opposition has been kept completely out of the negotiation process. To this shall be added Cuba's foreign policy action, not least in relation to Venezuela. In the socialist experiment under Nicolá Maduro, which led to a major humanitarian disaster and forced 4 million Venezuelans into flight, Cuba plays a very active role. The links between the two socialist dictatorships of Latin America are strong. This applies not least to military and intelligence services. Even under Hugo Chávez, Venezuela, with the help of Cuban military advisors, was able to build a notorious intelligence service, spying on its own armed forces and oppressing dissidents. There are reports from several quarters that the intelligence service is using abuse, including torture. In view of this, it is a bad thing that the bill on the Cuba Agreement does not mention the Cubans' responsibility for the human suffering in the breakdown of Venezuela. These countries are described in the bill as allies, but unfortunately the government does not choose to impose any demands on the Cuban regime in terms of support for Venezuela. The Swedish left, like the Social Democracy, has been criticised over the years for having an almost appreciative attitude towards the regime in Havana. The former Minister of Development Pierre Schori, known for his homage to have described Fidel Castro as a Renaissance prince, belongs to those who have possibly been dazzled most. As late as 2015, the government just sent him to Havana to collect Cuban support for the Swedish candidacy for the UN Security Council. At the same time, it was celebrated that it was then 40 years since Olof Palme celebrated the Communist regime during a visit to Cuba that was as famous as a visit to Cuba. Mrs. Old President! It is high time to settle this. It is time to make demands for real change and reforms that benefit the whole of the Cuban people. Trade and foreign investment are of great importance but are not synonymous with democracy and freedom. Cuba is an example of this, and it is against that background that the clear position of the political opposition should be seen. Only a month ago, as we heard, Cuban human rights activists appealed to all of us in this House not to approve the EU's Cuba agreements. The Christian Democrats heed this. Unfortunately, however, the Red-Green Government and the Left-wing Party seem to be able to gather a majority behind the proposal to approve the agreement. It will be done with the help of the Moderates. That is, to put it diplomatically, deeply regrettable. I am not going to polemize today against the representatives of the Moderates in this debate. Our parties are close on many issues. At the same time, I am convinced that several bourgeois voters, including us in the Christian Democrats, are disappointed by the Moderate position. In fact, it means that Sweden is missing a historic opportunity to firmly influence the communist one-party system which has plagued the Cuban people for 60 years and which has killed innocent people and locked up at least 20 000 political prisoners in the dark prisons of the dictatorship.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-465	Mrs. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the reservation to be approved and for the proposal to be rejected. In March 2003, I went to Havana for the second time to meet a number of people who worked for democracy in Cuba. They were all blacklisted by the Communist dictatorship. Their organizations were banned, their homes monitored and their phones bugged. Many of them were regularly interrogated. There were free librarians who lent books to the public in their living rooms, such as the Communists forbidden Cubans to read. There were independent journalists reporting on such news and events as the Communists wanted the people never to see. The articles were sent out of the country and then read into the free Cuban Miami radio, which could be boarded by short wave in Cuba. There were politicians in democratic parties – Liberals, Conservatives and Social Democrats – who were banned. There were trade union activists, whose organisations were not allowed either, because the Communists do not allow free trade unions. And there were activists who, with the help of petitions, tried to call the Cuban power apparatus into dialogue. They tried to convince Cubans to defy fear and dare put their signature on a list, even though it could mean that they had neither work nor housing afterwards. The Cuban democracy movement consisted of those who chose to remain on the island and work for democratic change, despite the fact that the prospects for success looked almost useless. Mrs. Old President! Just these days in 2003 in March, when I was in Havana, the Iraq war began. The world's spotlight was directed against the American invasion and Baghdad. The Cuban regime quickly took the opportunity to arrest the entire leadership of the Cuban democracy movement. Several of the people I was going to meet were arrested shortly before or shortly after our meetings. In no time, 75 leading dissidents in summary trials were sentenced to a total of 1,456 years in prison. These 75 persons were the party friends of the Liberals, Christian Democrats, Moderates and Social Democrats. If Cuba had been a free country, the same people would have visited the EPP Congress, the S Congress and the Liberal International. Most of the 75 political prisoners arrested in March 2003 were forced by the authorities to go into exile after their release. Some ten people refused exile. They wanted to remain in their homeland, so they had to spend another year in prison and then serve the rest of the sentence under house arrest. Mrs. Old President! One of the 75 Cuban dissidents arrested in 2003 was José Daniel Ferrer. He refused to leave the country after his release and has since been arrested by the police countless times. In the cooperation agreement that we are debating today, several speakers will refer to the so-called human rights dialogue that is to be held two days a year between the EU and Cuba. This dialogue was held on 2 October this year. The day before the dialogue, José Daniel Ferrer was arrested in Cuba. He has been imprisoned since then without knowing what he is being accused of. When his wife met him last week, he was bruised by the beatings in prison and had lost a lot of pounds in weight. There is a word for this. It's called torture. The so-called human rights dialogue is the European Union's pretext for claiming that there is a human rights perspective in the cooperation agreement with Cuba. This is something to which one can refer when criticising the fact that the agreement is a surrender to the one-party dictatorship in Havana. But this human rights declaration is a joke. It has zero relevance and is an affront to the Cuban democracy movement. The fact is that the Cuban democracy movement is also extremely critical of the agreement and wants to lift it, not least because they have not been allowed to participate in the drafting of the agreement themselves. The meeting of civil society organisations in Cuba and the EU held on 2 October was attended by three Cuban organisations. They are all dependent on the Cuban regime. No organisations that want to see change in Cuba were allowed to participate. It may be added that Civil Rights Defenders and several other European NGOs working on the Cuba issue had applied to join the dialogue, but they were not allowed to participate. The conclusion is very clear: the Cuban Government is completely uninterested in dialogue between Cuban and European societies. The Cuban Government is only interested in two things: to retain power and to abuse power. The Liberals will vote against the EU-Cuba cooperation agreement. The explanation is very simple: we do not believe that we are fighting totalitarian states through cooperation agreements, especially the Cuban regime. Cuba has been a Communist one-party state since the early 1960s. The country's political leadership has never been interested in democracy since Fidel Castro built up his power apparatus, nor will the current leadership be. The clearest example of this is the new constitution adopted by Cuba at the beginning of this year. It states that the socialist system that this Constitution approves is a irreversible one. In the following paragraph you can read that the Cuban Communist Party is a leading political force in society and in the state. The meaning of this is that Cuba should be a one-party state. To demand something else is a violation of the Constitution.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-482	All the words about the cooperation agreement contributing to change in Cuba are therefore completely empty. They have no value. It's nonsense. The Cuban regime, through the adoption of the new Constitution, has said exactly what they think of the cooperation agreement, namely that they would like to see European hotel chains in Varadero, but absolutely no political change that would threaten Communist power. Mrs. Old President! I am not particularly surprised, I would say, that the Social Democrats and the Left Party support this cooperation agreement with Cuba. For the Left Party, it is obvious because for decades the party has been in arms with one-party rule in Cuba. Nor have the Social Democrats shown much solidarity with the people of Cuba. Representatives such as Olof Palme and Pierre Schori have over the years left their mark on the thinking of the Swedish Social Democracy, where Cuba has been depicted as some sort of progressive force despite the fact that the country's regime is one of the most brutal in the world. What really surprises me and many others, however, is that the Moderate Coalition Party can support this agreement. The whole aim of the cooperation agreement with Cuba is for the European Union to put aside demands for democratic reforms in exchange for opening up the Cuban market to certain European companies. For 100 years, the Moderates have been fighting Communism. Now, instead, they want to approach the Communist leaders. What we are going to see at the vote this afternoon is actually a historic shift. This does not mean that the Moderates have become Communists. That's not where the galosh squeezes. Rather, it is about finding it difficult to get yelled at by Social Democrats at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and European Hotel Magnates. The Moderates have always stood up to Communism in Eastern Europe. There is even a monument at Norrmalmstorg in memory of the struggle for Baltic liberation, a struggle that was conducted mainly in Sweden by Swedish bourgeoisie. To tone down demands for democracy to unrecognizability would never be accepted by the Moderates if it were Eastern Europe. This is exactly what the Social Democrats and Sten Andersson were doing in the 1980s. Now it is about Cuba, and obviously other standards apply, Madam President-in-Office. I am very concerned about which other dictatorial states one might imagine a rapprochement to the future, which has previously been unthinkable for the overall Swedish bourgeoisie. Finally, Parliament has now had the opportunity to stop this agreement. Unfortunately, it seems that this opportunity is being missed and that this agreement is being made today. The most happy of all are the Communist leaders in Havana.
i-AydutjJfHK7sxnTJk6kWZ4	Mrs. Old President! First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservation. Mrs. Old President! Cuba is a one-party state without free and democratic elections. Civil and political rights are still being curtailed. Following the accession of Raúl Castros as President in 2008, an economic reform process began. However, this has been slow and has not yet improved the standard of living of the majority of Cubans. Disparities are often subjected to arbitrary detention and harassment of police and security services. Most printed media and all ether media are state media. The dissemination of so-called counter-revolutionary information is punishable. Membership of independent and state-owned organisations, trade unions and political parties is prohibited. There are times when meetings and gatherings among opponents are prevented by the secret services. Independent civil society organisations are often forced to operate in legal limbo because they are not allowed to register. In practice, the judiciary is subject to executive power, and criminal law contains sweeping crimes that are often used to arrest and sometimes condemn dissidents. As violations of the civil and political rights of individuals occur to a large extent in accordance with national law, the state routinely denies this type of crime and fails to investigate them. The conditions in prisons regarding hygiene, nutrition and space and access to medicines are poor. The death penalty has not been abolished, but there has been a de facto moratorium since 2003. Mrs. Old President! At the same time, all Cubans are guaranteed access to education and health care. Life expectancy is among the highest in the region, and the proportion of literacy is close to 100 per cent. In recent years, independent civil society has been created to some extent, and the information monopoly has been broken as the public has gained more access to the internet. Freedom of religion and LGBTQ people's rights have been strengthened, and legislation against discrimination against LGBTQ people has been introduced. Cuba has also opened up the possibility of approving same-sex marriages. Today, 25 per cent of the population in the private sector are working, and the number of sole entrepreneurs is about 500 000 – despite bureaucratic obstacles. Mrs. Old President! We shouldn't be naive and duck. Cuba and the Cubans continue to face major challenges, and a great deal of strength and courage is needed to bring about greater democratisation, increased prosperity, economic reform and, of course, the rule of law reforms in order to see a clear positive trend for the Cubans. That is why this agreement between the European Union and Cuba is important. The aim of the agreement is to consolidate existing relations with Cuba and to create an instrument to facilitate the EU's support for reform processes in the country and to promote European values and interests. The agreement provides for cooperation and dialogue in a wide range of areas. It concerns democracy, human rights, which has been mentioned, good governance, development cooperation, equality and trade. In the agreement, the parties stress in particular the importance of respecting human rights. It's clearly marked. It concerns fundamental freedoms, democratic principles and the rule of law. They shall also cooperate and comply with international rules on disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Mrs. Old President! Over the past decade, the EU has strengthened its foreign policy narrative and has become an essential player in the global sphere where cockfights between the traditional major powers are of an almost daily nature, and the geopolitical, security and trade policy agenda is under unprecedented change. It is therefore important for the EU to make a real contribution to the strengthening and follow-up of countries where there is a reasonable or real chance of democratic and economic change. As I said, we are not naive, and we should not duck for the challenges. However, the option of giving up or, as some would like, putting the agreement in the drawer is a passive response to a population's desire for greater freedom and prosperity. With the current President, the United States is helping to create negative pressure in many countries. For example, with the help of the European Union and also thanks to the interest of President Obamas, nuclear agreements with Iran, the Paris agreements and rapprochement with Cuba gave some hope for a slightly better world. There the United States, now for conservative political reasons, has chosen to both block and leave ongoing agreements. This is a sad development that has turned the clock increasingly back into a cold-war world order, which we had all hoped was over since the fall of the wall but which has now reappeared in a new form in which the United States withdraws and China increases its influence. Mrs. Old President! That is why the agreement is important. The EU has expanded, and should expand, the talks and dialogue with Cuba in order to create pressure in all respects for change economically, democratically and for the rule of law. The Cuban people's desire for freedom and openness must be encouraged at all times, and now that the powerful neighbour has increased the pressure on the country with sanctions, it is the EU's opportunity, and to some extent the duty, to Cubans to show courage and patience and follow-up, to make demands on the regime and to demand that absolutely necessary reform processes take on, decide and be carried out. That is also why the agreement is important. We understand the challenges. But standing outside and watching gives no, or few, opportunities for influence and development of democracy. To date, stigmatising and isolation has not been a successful method for the Cuban people's pursuit of freedom and increased prosperity. I would also like to thank the Moderates, the Left Party and the Green Party for a constructive and forward-looking look and discussion on the report. Once again, I support the committee's proposal.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-504	Mrs. Old President! I have listened to Mr Niemis' speech by the Social Democrat. There are many good words about democracy and the Cuban people's desire for freedom and openness. The truth is that a Cuban who wants to live in freedom and openness today has two options. One option is to become a dissident. You lose your job. Then you are subjected to constant harassment of your neighborhood, abuse, blacklisting from your workplace, interception, constant police raids, interrogations and so on. You might not get your medication if you're sick, and so on. The second option is to go into exile. Hundreds of thousands of Cubans have crossed the shark - rich waters of the Gulf of Mexico to get to freedom in the United States. They've risked their lives to do this. Then they have been stigmatized by the left around the world, who have claimed to be terrorists even though they are refugees. These are the two options that exist. Note then that none of the two groups, those who are dissidents in Cuba, the democracy movement, or the Cubans who have fled their homeland and built a new life in another country, have been involved in the process of developing the cooperation agreement. Not once has Pyry Niemi and the others who support the agreement and those who have negotiated the agreement asked what the Cuban democracy movement thinks and what they want. How will Pyry Niemi ensure that opinions come out, if even when negotiating the agreement you are not prepared to listen to the Cuban democrats and they are not even allowed to participate in the dialogue? That doesn't make any sense, Pyry Niemi.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-509	Mrs. Old President! I share Fredrik Malm's view that the situation of the Cuban population since the 1960s has been incredibly harsh, sometimes totally fruitless and often terrible. The situation in Cuba is such that human rights are still, again and again, being violated and not being followed up. Above all, there are many processes that keep the population in check. I am the first to regret that civil society actors have not been allowed to participate in the discussions, debates and the drafting of the agreement. I cannot give a concrete answer to why, because, as Fredrik Malm will understand, I myself have not taken part in the discussions or debates. However, the Commission has been involved. But I will, of course, express the view to the government that it is a requirement from the Riksdag that it should be so. It is absolutely fundamental for the process to be able to operate in a good and positive extension that all actors participate in the talks. Otherwise, there will be no real workshop in the long term, and then the Cuban people's desire for freedom will not be able to get a good foothold. I share this view, and I regret that this has not happened.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-513	Mrs. Old President! At Pyry Niemi it sounds like it's kind of like when a person has come to a board meeting and hasn't been able to see the business plan until some day before the meeting and that one regrets this and says that one should be better at sending out information. This isn't about that. This is about the Cuban Government not concluding an agreement if their critics at home had been allowed to participate in the process. Then there would have been no deal. This in itself is proof that the Cuban regime is completely uninterested in contributing to some kind of change and completely uninterested in dialogue between Cuban and European societies. This is a fact. It is easy to come after the agreement has entered into force and say that the shortcomings should then be pointed out. It would have been nice to pick them up from the beginning. The European Union has half a billion inhabitants. It's a huge power apparatus. But they have chosen to surrender to the Cuban regime and make no demands. In addition, I must note, Madam President, that the Social Democrats want more business with a country where trade union rights are banned, where free trade unions are banned and where there is no freedom of expression. In other countries with this kind of climate for the labour movement, I believe that trade unions and the Social Democrats would be rather sceptical about concluding trade agreements and other things. Instead, it would work to secure workers' rights. I cannot imagine how Mr Niemi can ensure that the workers who will build the hotels that European chains will build in Cuba will receive their wages and rights and not be harmed in their workplaces. Pyry Niemi will be happy to respond to this as well.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-517	Mrs. Old President! I note that Fredrik Malm has very good insights into the contacts with the Cuban regime, as he expresses and interprets how the regime thinks and has interpreted the texts of the agreements. But it's another story. When it comes to workers' rights, we are always behind trade union rights, and Fredrik Malm knows this very well. We would never back up to stand up for trade union rights in Cuba too. My principle is that one should not stigmatise or isolate a country. As has been done with many other one-party or authoritarian states, it is better to have entry, supervision and transparency in these countries and have good, functioning agreements to really clarify how democratic values work. Free trade, which I am sure Fredrik Malm is behind, is a foundation and a basis for opening up and enabling prosperity development and democratic reforms in different countries. If the EU were to remain out of this context in the same spirit as when the US withdraws or imposes sanctions on Cuba, the Cuban people would only be isolated and stigmatised even more. I regret the view that it is better to stand by passively and do nothing than try to do anything at all. That's where we stand today. I will make the point that it is unfortunate that civil society actors have not been allowed to participate in the process. This I promise Fredrik Malm here and now. But it's better to have the deal than not have it at all.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-522	Mrs. Old President! When I listen to Pyry Niemi, it sounds like there would be nothing without this agreement, but that is not the case. In 1996, the EU adopted a common position with the task of encouraging democratic development and respect for human rights. In 2003, when it had been operating for a while, relations were frozen on the basis that a large group of opponents had been arrested and imprisoned. In 2008, the Council decided to resume the dialogue with Cuba, and this has continued. In 2016, this agreement was signed, Madam President of the Age, and it seems that, as we have heard, there were human rights dialogues and other activities together. This is not a free trade agreement. However, it is an agreement that claims to reflect the principles and conditions on which future cooperation between the EU and Cuba will be based. These principles, Madam President of the Age, are interpreted by Cuba in accordance with the recently adopted Constitution, which confirms the primacy of the Communist Party, the one-party state and the system that is operating today. Everything else is criminal and may even be fought with weapons if someone rebels. Against this background, I ask: how is it that the Social Democrats want the work for human rights and democracy to be based on the one-party system? How do you think you're gonna get on that ground, Pyry Niemi? Put the deal to rest! Don't vote for it! And make sure to take the discussion before you go forward and give a present in the form of a united Europe that confirms their view!
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-526	Mrs. Old President! If Kerstin Lundgren claims that we would stand behind the one-party state as a form of a democratic or non-democratic state, that is definitely wrong. Of course we do not, and this is what Kerstin Lundgren knows. We, like the Center Party and other parties, would like to see free and independent elections in Cuba. It is a sine qua non for the Cuban people to be able to achieve both democratic reform and prosperity. What I remember – I may be wrong, but I think that was the case – was actually the alliance government that started signing the agreement in 2014 during the talks within the EU. It is possible that I am wrong in my view of time, but I believe that the talks began when it was a bourgeois government and that it was Carl Bildt who was Foreign Minister at the time. Either way, we signed the preliminary agreement that now operates and works. The agreement is absolutely not optimal – I buy it – because there are still things that are completely wrong in Cuba. It is a one-party state, as I said in my speech, and human rights are being violated. But the fact remains: should the EU stand by and not act at all on these issues? The United States has imposed new sanctions on the Cuban people. It'll be a tougher location for them. I will not mention it, but I can at least simply mention what is happening in Iran now that sanctions have been imposed and petrol prices go up. The US has withdrawn from the nuclear agreement. It was exactly the same thing there. The EU stands firm and tries to act in some kind of foreign policy sphere to slow down even more negative developments. The same can also happen in Cuba if the EU withdraws and puts the agreement in the drawer. Then there will be even more isolation and stigmatisation and less control and opportunities to work to get the one-party state to act for better reforms for the Cuban people.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-531	Mrs. Old President! When I listen to Mr Niemi, I hear a person who sees that, without this agreement on political dialogue and cooperation, there is nothing and that there is then an outsider or even a sanction. But where does that picture come from? Of course, we continue to engage in dialogue, as we have done throughout this journey. We continue to act as we have done so far. The only thing we do by ratifying the agreement now is to give a present to those who, during the process, from the beginning of the work on the agreement, have stepped back and confirmed the policy of the Communist leadership in a new constitution, developed during one month, from June to July 2018, when it was presented. It has now come to a decision-making constitution. Why should we give a present to the Communist regime? Shouldn't we instead try to influence and say, ‘No, we're not ratifying' – we want to see you're serious when we talk about human rights'? And it is not a Cuban interpretation of human rights that we should confirm, nor a Cuban interpretation of democracy with a one-party state. But that's what the deal does. It confirms the foundations on which the agreement rests. I cannot understand how one could wish to do that in 2019, Madam President of the Age.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-534	Mrs. Old President! I'm a little surprised that Kerstin Lundgren calls the agreement a present. It has been preceded by heavy negotiations for years. Discussions, debates, views, positions and, finally, agreement on an agreement have been held. How can you call it a present? I am deeply surprised at the way in which we can express ourselves on such an urgent agreement. I am not saying that the world will stop or stand still, but it may be a half-stop if the agreement is not ratified. It may even be removed. So what's the alternative? How will the EU shape itself in the future after years of trying to bring about activities in Cuba through active dialogue? This isn't gonna happen in a year. Maybe it'll take ten years. Maybe it'll take five years. But now we have really tried to come up with an agreement that will promote transparency between the European Union and Cuba in proper terms. Then it would be strange if we were to take it back, put it in the drawer and pretend like nothing. It feels rather unserious, especially to call it a present. I certainly can't sign that.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-537	Mrs. Old President! Mr Niemi said on a number of occasions that we should not be naive. I firmly believe that this is exactly what the Social Democrats and also the government are. The situation of democracy activists and human rights defenders, as I mentioned earlier in the speaker's chair, has worsened since the start of the agreement negotiations. For this reason, I was not going to be so tedious, but I was just going to ask a simple question: why are the Social Democrats ignoring all human rights activists and democrats who warned against this? Don't you trust them? Doesn't their words mean anything? I guess they're the ones who understand the situation in Cuba best.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-540	Mrs. Old President! As I said in the reply to Fredrik Malm, we will present that point to the government, which will in turn discuss at EU level and demand that civil society actors be given the opportunity to participate actively in the further process. That is my answer to that question.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-541	Mrs. Old President! Of course, it is good if the Social Democrats put pressure on their government to act differently on this issue. However, the fact remains that it is the Social Democrats who will be sitting in this House today, pushing the button to push this callless agreement through. The agreement is substandard and, as I said, unconditional. This does not mean any improvement for the democrats, whose situation we have extensive evidence of. We have seen it in newspapers and debate articles. Several exile Cubans have gone out with it. Yet, today, Socialist Members will vote in favour of the agreement. Mrs. Old President! I am, of course, pleased that attempts are being made to influence the government in the right direction, but the responsibility lies with the Social Democratic MPs together with the Left Party, the Green Party and unfortunately also the Moderates.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-544	Mrs. Old President! I say as I said in my last speech that this would be a present. To call the agreement unconditional is indeed to undermine the tough and tough negotiations that have been going on for a long time. It is also a rather comprehensive agreement that calls for follow-up of democratisation and respect for human rights, so I do not share the views of the Swedish Democrats on this issue.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-545	Mrs. Old President! About six months ago, last spring, I was on the border between Venezuela and Colombia. I was in a town called Cúcuta. Across the border bridge that goes there, Simón Bolívar, I saw the flow of refugees from Venezuela into Colombia. I met the refugees and talked to them about their existence and why they had been forced to flee. They told us how their existence had been torn apart by a dysfunctional regime, by a situation that led to a humanitarian disaster of enormous proportions. There are a total of 4 million people so far who have been forced to leave Venezuela. An instrumental role in what is happening in Venezuela is played by the Cuban regime. Cuba stands for thousands of military advisors. You're a part of maintaining a secret service that puts fear in the population. Cuba also has a direct and active role in many other areas in what is Latin America's worst humanitarian crisis so far. There is no mention of this in the government bill. I would like to ask Mr Niemi how it is that, when such a comprehensive agreement is negotiated, it does not require the Cuban regime to withdraw from Venezuela, leave the population alone and refrain from contributing to what, as I have said, is Latin America's worst humanitarian crisis so far.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-549	Mrs. Old President! I thought we were talking about the EU and Cuba and not Venezuela in this context. But for the sake of the matter, I'll answer the question. This is mentioned – not as a demand for Cuba, but it says that the countries are allies. However, if we were to start making various specific demands on Cuba's foreign policy, we would have to show a number of countries with which it has had contact or not, then this is, of course, a discussion that needs to be addressed throughout the text of the agreement. That's what it's all about. In this bill, we reflect on the relationship between the EU and Cuba. That's where it says. I find it difficult to imagine that the government, and also the EU, would set specific regulations in such an agreement vis-à-vis Cuba's whole foreign policy agenda. The greatest focus has been on how to democratize, create human rights within Cuba, create economic prosperity and so on. I am a little surprised that Venezuela comes up as an aspect of the text of the agreement from the Christian Democrats at the moment. Why did the then bourgeois government not rule on it once it started to discuss it? It happened in 2014. Should this have been included in the contractual discussions under the EU flag at the time? They didn't. Obviously, we have followed that tradition in the texts of the agreements which are now on the table for ratification.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-553	Mrs. Old President! I am concerned that the Social Democrats do not see the whole picture. Clearly, it matters how a country behaves if it is to have trade relations and cooperate with the European Union. It is not possible to decouple foreign policy and foreign policy action which must be strongly condemned from the assessment of a regime and a country. We know from the past that the Social Democrats have had a permissive policy towards Cuba. I had hoped that that time was over and that Olof Palme and Pierre Schoris's legacy were added to the documents. I am worried when I hear Mr Niemi, because in the speech we have just heard, he was constantly talking about one-party states. Why don't you tell me the truth? It is a dictatorship, a Communist dictatorship, which has plagued the people of its country for 60 years. Why don't you speak out? Leave the old Social Democratic legacy behind, Pyry Niemi! Tell us about the real situation and what it looks like in Cuba! Talk about dictatorship, because that's what it's all about!
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-556	Mrs. Old President! I didn't quite understand the question. I can only say that the parliament existed even before Lars Adaktusson became a member, and we have often condemned the dictatorship or the one-party state of Cuba with harsh words. We have also had strong views on Venezuela on several occasions. The EU has been a strong force to condemn. Lars Adaktusson is well aware of this and that the EU has facilitated a kind of democratic process in Venezuela as well. We have a strong heritage in foreign policy, and we always stand up for human rights. We will never back off people's aspirations for freedom, economic prosperity and democratic reforms. It applies to all countries. Democracy is at the top of the agenda for the foreign policy of the Social Democrats. Lars Adaktusson knows that as well. We're not hugging any one-party states, we're making demands. In this respect, we are calling for an agreement to be reached which will give us insight into what is happening in Cuba. We make demands to ensure that people gain better economic prosperity. We are also calling for the democratic reform process, despite the fact that Cuba is a one-party state, to be brought under way. It is the EU's transparency in this process. The EU has signed agreements to help create the conditions so that the Cuban people gradually gain better, greater freedom and more access to the outside world. Anything else would be strange, and it seems only passive to stand by and observe instead of acting. That is why the European Union has signed this agreement, and we will ratify it.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-562	Mrs. Old President! Communism is one of the greatest plagues of the 20th century. Communism, along with Nazism, should rightly be combated at all stages, and it should be done with the best methods. They include knowledge and awareness of the crimes of totalitarian ideologies. This is precisely what the Living History Forum has been tasked with spreading for more than two decades. However, there are still Communist outposts in the world. One of them is Cuba. No, Cuba is not just any dictatorship. Cuba has been an authoritarian communist dictatorship for 60 years, with few positive changes in terms of democracy and human rights. The Communist regime of Cuba is one of the last remaining rubble of the Cold War, when Western democracy stood in sharp contrast to the totalitarian Soviet domination of the Eastern Hemisphere. Cuba Communism is in many ways an asphalt flower which, despite blockades, boycotts and all sorts of diplomatic sanctions, still bursts into new buds, not the most beautiful but still buds. Unfortunately, the efforts of the free and democratic world towards Cuba to bring about change have not worked so far. One thing is quite clear: the Moderates have nothing to do with totalitarian communist regimes. But we have never believed in isolation as a method either. Perhaps it is time, after 60 years, to try another strategy. That is why we want to give the agreement on political dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Cuba, on the other, a chance to work. But we Moderates make additional demands. Mrs. Old President! It is the opinion of the Moderates that Sweden's foreign policy should be based on Swedish interests. Our common values of human rights and freedoms, democracy, the liberal rule of law and the market economy must always guide us. These values do not require individual strategies. They stand as bright lights on otherwise November dark and troubled seas. These starting points should permeate all Swedish foreign policy. After all, political dialogue and trade offer more effective means of influence than isolation and boycotts. The way out of poverty is best through economic growth and trade. The agreement now before us gives the EU an opportunity to have a common and structured approach to Cuba's hopefully future democratic development – a development that has been moderately said to have been extremely limited so far and which has gone backwards rather than forwards. Through the agreement, Sweden can also be an active partner in the human rights dialogue and in a way contribute to a democratisation process in Cuba. However, we Moderates want to see more targeted efforts in support of oppositionists and in relation to the regime of dissidents. It is in order to give them a better chance of being part of Cuba's necessary change work. Most of the EU-Cuba Agreement has been provisionally applied since November 2017. If Sweden votes against the agreement, it will fall, and we will remain where we were before. One can rightly have views and doubts as to whether this agreement will make a significant difference. I agree with almost all the previous speakers. But to say no now and not present any other constructive way forward is nothing but irresponsible to the oppressed people of Cuba. For this reason, the agreement between the EU and Cuba is an instrument that is too valuable to go away. Without this agreement, there are no other formal preconditions for the EU to be a driving force in Cuba's democratic development. The alternative will then be to continue to isolate Cuba for further decades, which affects Cuba's population and citizens in a worse way. Mrs. Old President! While the Moderates are courteous and willing to approve the committee's proposal, that is to say, that Sweden should ratify the agreement, it is of the utmost importance to pay attention and closely monitor compliance with the agreement. An ambitious control and transparent follow-up are urgently needed. The points set out in the agreement are far too sparse to work in practice. We want to see more points of view than those set out in the agreement so that the EU can monitor the development of human rights in Cuba, among other things, without preconditions and on an ongoing basis. That is to give this agreement an opportunity – not to hug any Cuba regime but well to give the people of Cuba an opportunity to see more of the rare freedom it craves. There must therefore be a clear list of measures, a clear timetable for the same. If there are too obvious discrepancies in Cuba's compliance, the EU shall also reserve the right to terminate this agreement without delay. We therefore believe that a reconciliation and an evaluation of the agreement should be made no later than five years from its full entry into force. If substantial progress and improvements have not been achieved on human rights and how civil society and opposition are involved in the democratisation process, then it is time for the Swedish Government to ensure that the agreement is terminated by the EU. Mrs. Old President! It is with this hopeful attitude and at the same time realistic clear reservations that the Moderates support the approval of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States on the one hand and the Republic of Cuba on the other. We want to give the dialogue with Cuba a chance. Then it will be up to Cuba's ruling regime to show whether it is serious in giving Cuba's oppressed population the opportunity to taste the sweetness of freedom and democracy after just over half a century of oppression on their own land. May they taste the Cuba Libre they are so well worth.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-580	Mrs. Old President! I would like to begin by reading a quote which I think is very good: a day when there is reason to report from Havana is when it is announced that the dictatorship ends, the opposition is allowed and the practiced socialism is replaced by diversity and a rule of law. Until then, the love for Cuba is nothing more than the expression of communism nostalgia! ..................................................... This whole blog post can be read at Hanswallmark.blogspot.com, and it was written in 2011. What we now note is a shift in moderate foreign policy and approach to totalitarian Communist dictatorships. These words feel like coming from a bygone era, but it is only a few years since they were written. What the Moderates are writing today is that the agreement between the EU and Cuba is an instrument that is too valuable to be removed. The question is why the Moderates choose to break abruptly with the attitude they have had for decades to oppose communist regimes. The only thing that has happened since the Moderates hesitated to approve this Cuba agreement until they decided to do so is that Cuba has adopted a constitution that has established that Communism is irreversible. The only thing that has happened from the previous Moderate attitude to the present is that developments have gone backwards in Cuba, and then the Moderates choose to approach the Cuban Communist dictatorship. It seems strange to say the least, Madam President.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-585	Mrs. Old President! I assume that Fredrik Malm listened to what I said in my speech. It was probably the longest speech in a long time here that raised communism and its crimes. It was far more than Fredrik Malm said in his previous post. It was mostly that one was annoyed with the Moderates who, as I said, want to give this agreement an opportunity. Fredrik Malm takes on as if the Moderates had entered into a January agreement. Yes, if that had been the case, I would have had a great deal of sympathy for Malm's outrage. But in this context, it is about something quite different. There's a deal on the table. It's weak, it's weak. That is why we have a special opinion in which we want to tighten up and include what is missing in the agreement. But we don't want to throw the baby out with the bath water. I am a little surprised that Fredrik Malm as a classic liberal and representative of a party that has always stood up for constructive solutions now comes to this House and focuses more on those who actually want to do something constructive to change the situation in Cuba, to give it a chance, than to make some proposals themselves. There have been trade boycotts for 50 years. All sorts of boycotts have been happening for a long time. There is no country that has suffered so much boycott, and rightly so. But when it has not worked for 60 years, I would like to hear what is the Liberals' proposal to break the Communist regime in Cuba. You don't think this is a good deal. But what is it that suits you? It is here and now that you become that answer guilty.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-590	Mrs. Old President! The Moderates have not entered into a January agreement with the Left Party, but rather a November agreement, as it reflects the twilight of the season, one might say. Then, Mrs Rothenberg, Hans Rothenberg is wrong! He describes it as the whole world has isolated and boycotted Cuba. That's not true. Sweden has never really isolated or boycotted Cuba. The European Union has not, I would argue, fought against any communist dictatorship. Only the United States, and the United States alone, have fought against the dictatorship of Cuba, no one else. Then the United States eased its rules, and Barack Obama removed the restrictions on Cuba that were not part of the legislation. As a result, a number of U.S. diplomats and civil servants suffered serious brain damage as a result of some kind of sound waves, which meant that the relationship between the U.S. and Cuba began to hack again and that Donald Trump imposed new sanctions. I could imagine that Sweden would also do so if we had diplomats abroad who got that kind of mysterious disease because they operated in a dictatorship. Mrs. Old President! When the Moderates say they want a checkpoint in five years' time, the question will be whether they want to add some kind of additional annex to the agreement. The agreement exists and is negotiated. The Moderates can present a special opinion in the Riksdag and say: We also want this and this to be included in the agreement. But the deal is fixed. What the Moderates are now voting in favour of is the agreement that lies, not to any control station if five are. With the attitude that the Moderates are now taking, to always promote trade, the question will be what the Moderates' position will be against, for example, Belarus, against which the European Union has restrictive measures. Should the Moderates now act to tear up sanctions against Belarus and instead conclude cooperation agreements?
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-595	Mrs. Old President! This debate may seem strange to the audience. It is not the Moderates who have sanctioned Communism in Cuba. The Moderates want to push the Swedish government, regardless of which government it is within five years. If this agreement does not show any progress, the EU should step out of the same – I do not think the Cuban population is squeaking about it as much. It is with this reservation that we say that we want to give this a chance. It is about our having different views on how, after six decades, it will be possible to achieve any improvement for democracy and human rights in Cuba. The joint reservation from Fredrik Malm and the Liberals and other parties is perhaps one of this year's most interesting. The Liberals and other parties who were not prepared to support the government base have now signed up in an unholy reservation. It does not contain very many suggestions or substance in terms of what you really want. I do not think anyone here has to worry that there is any shift in Moderate view of Cuba and Communism. To paraphrase a former Prime Minister: Don't come and tell us Moderates what Cuba Communism means! We have seen it, we have grown up with it, we hate it, and we want to do something about it.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-599	Mrs. Old President! Once again, it sounds as if we have only to take a stand for a yes or a no. What surprised me was that we were not able to meet in the Foreign Affairs Committee this year, as we were able to do in the past, to let the agreement rest and to put pressure on both the government and the European Commission to try to get something to happen in the right direction in Cuba after the Cuban Constitution had become a reality. That's the new one. We started negotiating when the situation changed in a positive direction, and we hoped. However, as we have seen in other contexts, we have also seen that developments are going in the wrong direction. That's where we think there's a reason to hit the back. Mrs. Old President! When I read this agreement and the Constitution, I do not really understand how to vote in favour and say that this is the basis for changing the Cuban system. This agreement recognises the Cuban system – it is respected – and the Cuban Constitution. The Parties shall agree on an agenda for each dialogue meeting to reflect their respective interests and address in a balanced manner civil and political rights and economic, social and cultural rights. There's the basics. Moreover, Article 12 clearly states that agreements which do not comply with the Constitution adopted are not in force. Mrs. Old President! Therefore, I would like to ask: how is it that the Moderates now want to release this agreement?
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-603	Mrs. Old President! I think that Kerstin Lundgren and the Center Party are landing in an attempt at a constructive approach in this. Then we land – the Moderates and the Center Party – in a little different methods and different approaches. I can respect that one method may be to put this aside for a few years. But what happens then? It is in this way that 25 of the current 28 EU countries have ratified this agreement. There are three countries that have not done so, and that is Sweden, Lithuania and the Netherlands. As long as someone does not say no, this agreement runs on, that is, if we put this aside, nothing will happen. There will be no signal whatsoever to Havana. It won't even be a smoke signal from a blackout of Cuba cigars. It doesn't change anything. That is where we believe we want to make extra demands on Sweden's acceptance of this. We want points of reference, we want reconciliations and we want to be able to say in a future: now is the time for Europe to step out of this because it is not working. Personally, I think it is 5-10% probability that this will change the conditions in Cuba. But it would be a historical error to say no to the possibility of this 5 – 10 percent.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-607	Mrs. Old President! This Agreement may be terminated by either Party with six months' notice. I hear the Moderates seem to reason that if nothing has happened in five years, they want this to be reconsidered. But then the agreement has entered into force. Then it's much harder. Then agreement is needed to terminate the agreement and get this six-month period going. So far, the agreement has not entered into force. We have five years of experience since the start of negotiations, and progress has gone in the wrong direction. For this reason, we do not think that there is any reason now to let go, to say yes and to ratify the agreement. As long as the agreement is not signed by the EU, the dialogue and talks will continue. However, there is still a small signal that is ringing: without results that go in the democratic, rule of law human rights direction, we do not get the agreement to enter into force. Wouldn't it be better to have this entry point if we wanted to change than to vote in favour of the agreement today? It is certainly not the case that a specific opinion in this part changes anything. I believe that there is almost as little chance of believing that the whole of Europe would decide to terminate the agreement in five years' time if Cuba has not moved in the right direction. In fact, with this agreement we accept the constitution which irrevocably confers sovereignty on the Communist Party in Cuba.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-612	Mrs. Old President! How do you change a dictatorship? How did the outside world change the fall of the Soviet Union and the Eastern bloc? The most gigantic and world-dominating dictatorship that has ever existed fell by itself. Burma was also a dictatorship that rotted somewhere from within. Unfortunately, there is no recipe for breaking a dictatorship. Some people think you do it with weapons, some think you do it with guerrillas, some think you do it with trade boycotts and some think you do it with some kind of dialogue. There's no standard trick. We prefer to be pragmatic and test this agreement, but also to make demands. The Moderates have been a driving force in the Riksdag because there must be an ambitious monitoring of this agreement. We have nothing left for totalitarian communist regimes, and we will never have it. But we have not believed in isolation as a method either. If you want to isolate, you are also obliged to tell what you want to do instead. We want to give the agreement a chance, and no later than five years after it has entered into full force, a reconciliation and an evaluation will be made. If no real progress and improvements have been made, Sweden will press for the agreement to be terminated by the EU. This can be done at six months intervals – absolutely. In fact, it is now up to Cuba to show that it is serious about this. It is not up to the Moderates, it is not up to the Center Party; it is up to the Cuban regime to show this. This is a responsibility that we have today. Communism is something that the world feels very bad about, and communism is something that the people of Cuba have been feeling far too bad about for far too long.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-617	Mrs. Old President! The tone before and during today's debate on the EU's political dialogue agreement with Cuba has been very high. No country arouses such strong feelings in the Swedish bourgeoisie as Cuba. Probably it is because of the country's long-standing resistance to join the capitalist system. At the same time, Cuba is far from being a model country. Developments in Cuba are not clear. Major social progress has been achieved, while human rights violations are very extensive. The negative effect and significance of the US blockade on Cuba cannot be overestimated. Today, there are signs of reform when it comes to economic policy. But few signals, if any, are coming about fundamental changes to the country's political system. In practice, the United States has had almost the same policy against Cuba for 60 years – blockade, blockade and blockade – without democratisation in Cuba taking off. For a few years Obama softened relations between the United States and Cuba, and economic development began to take off. Barack Obamas's historic visit to Cuba in 2016 marked a milestone in the improvement of relations. Shortly afterward, a number of regular flights between the United States and Cuba were opened for the first time in 55 years. But soon developments returned with Donald Trump in the White House. In its Cuba policy, the EU should not follow the US in the tracks. Instead, we shall use dialogue and dialogue as one of our ways of pushing the Cuban regime for democratisation. Isolation has not worked and will not work. That is why we are saying yes to the EU's agreement on political dialogue with Cuba. Above all, it is only against Cuba that the bourgeoisie wants to use this isolation tactic. There is strong criticism of the Communist Party that governs the one-party state of China. But business peaks and other bourgeoisies would never agree to isolate the world's second largest economy in the same way as they want to isolate Cuba. Money talks, and in China you can make money even if it means human rights being violated. Cuba does not meet the necessary requirements for democracy, and human rights violations continue. Freedom of expression, press and assembly are severely restricted and there are no opportunities to form and organise in free, independent trade unions. The Left Party wishes to see democratisation and greater respect for human rights in Cuba. Such a process must be shaped by the Cuban people. Sweden should therefore strengthen support for civil society in Cuba and promote the democratisation of the country. The Swedish bourgeoisie has a blind eye when it comes to Cuba's social progress. We see that Cuba is living up to the economic, social and cultural rights enshrined in the UN Convention on Human Rights in several respects. Cuba is engaged in extensive social solidarity work in many Latin American countries, which is appreciated by the most vulnerable on the continent. Cuba also stands out positively in terms of sustainable development. However, the fact that Cuba has made any social progress does not in any way excuse the shortcomings in civil rights. The blockade of the United States is a strong inhibitor of progress towards democracy, and the outside world should therefore act to lift it. It also affects the ability of millions of Cubans to access medicine and medical technology and is thus crucial to their health. In addition, various UN programmes have been affected on several occasions by the suspension of supplies of vaccines, syringes and other medical equipment for use in Cuba. The Left Party shares the UN General Assembly's criticism of the US blockade against Cuba. It is totally unacceptable for a government to decide on sanctions that so clearly punish and affect a whole people. It's nothing but collective punishment. Sweden should clearly condemn the US economic blockade against Cuba and demand that it be lifted immediately. With this, Madam President-in-Office, I would like to support the report's proposal and note in particular the special opinion of the Left Party.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-628	Mrs. Old President! In Håkan Svenneling's world, the United States is the root of all evil. In his special opinion, he writes that the negative significance of the US blockade against Cuba cannot be overestimated. He also writes that the blockade hampers the development of democracy. Håkan Svenneling does not mention the dictatorship. He does not mention the absence of free elections, nor does he mention repression and political prisoners. According to Håkan Svenneling, Cuba's communist regime is a victim of the circumstances. Left partyists do not like to be reminded of their communist past. It is usually met with sneezing and overlying smiles, as if it were not relevant. However, it does not. Author Magnus Utvik recently wrote, speaking of the fall of the Berlin Wall 30 years ago, that the idea of communism is still alive for the Left Party. In the party program you can read about the abolition of capitalism and a classless society – the goal of communist idea. Add to that, Håkan Svenneling, that there are party representatives in your own parliamentary group who have described themselves as communists. Mrs. Old President! The left-wing party removed the word, and the Communists, from their party name in 1990, but the ties to the socialist and communist systems remain. Cooperation with the Communist parties of Europe in the European Parliament shows this, and the demeaning of communist misrule in Cuba shows it. It is a betrayal of the victims of dictatorship. It's sad, and it's sad.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-632	Mrs. Old President! I have no problem calling Cuba a one-party state and a dictatorship, because that is what it is. In my speech, I highlighted the human rights violations committed every day by the regime in Cuba – and I have been committing them for a long time. The interesting thing about this debate is that it was not until the shift between Hans Rothenberg and Fredrik Malm that we started talking about the US blockade and its effects. Lars Adaktusson did not mention it in a word, even though it has been going on for 60 years. It says a lot about the Swedish debate on Cuba: you do not see the role of the United States in what is happening, and you do not want to see it. You want to like US politics. The left-wing legacy is tough, and it's many times I'm not proud of it. In September, I visited the mass graves outside Petrozavodsk, where Stalin killed tens of thousands of people. It made an incredible impression on me. But with regard to our heritage in relation to Cuba, at our Congress in 2008 we chose to adopt a new Cuba policy. We chose to be clear on three points. It is a question of clear criticism of the human rights violations that are taking place, and it is a question of clearly criticising the US blockade and what it gives. At the same time, it is about seeing what the bourgeoisie of Sweden and in many other places does not see, namely the social progress actually taking place in Cuba and how Cuba often raises the climate issue better than Western countries do. Lars Adaktusson is trying to make it that there are ties to Communism left in the Left Party. I could recommend him to look at the Chinese Embassy's website and the condemnations that the Chinese Communist Party makes of me as a person. There are no such bands left, Lars Adaktusson ; you can release that point of speech. For me, it is important to realise that change can happen. That is precisely what the Berlin Wall stands for: all of a sudden changes are taking place – perhaps even in Cuba.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-637	Mrs. Old President! There are no bands left, says Håkan Svenneling. "I am a Communist," says Ali Esbati in Aftonbladet, 11 years after the party changed its name. "I'm a communist because I think we have a proud history, says Ida Gabrielsson, 15 years after the party changed its name. The Left Party has not settled with its history, and it is evident – not least in the mood of the Communist dictatorship in Cuba.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-640	Mrs. Old President! I find it very difficult to see how we have turned for the Cuban regime. I feel it incredibly hard in my heart when Fredrik Malm describes the torture that Cuban human rights activists are subjected to. That's because, no matter where, with what motives and by whom human rights violations are committed, I'm going to stand up and say that it's wrong. As a result, I do not feel any perversion at all for Cuba. What worries me, however, are the double standards of the Swedish bourgeoisie when it comes to foreign policy. It worries me how precision is always critical and wants to isolate Cuba as it is – pretend it did not exist and hide it in the Bermuda Triangle – but at the same time highlight other countries that commit human rights violations and create agreements with them. One such country, for example, is Israel, with which the EU has an association agreement to facilitate free trade. This is despite widespread and daily violations of human rights. It is these yardsticks of the Swedish bourgeoisie that I do not really understand. I don't understand how you can think it's okay in Israel and okay in Morocco, how you can have arms exports to Saudi Arabia and how you can not call what's happening in Bolivia a coup d'état – but Cuba should be on the lookout. That's what makes many in the Left feel that our inheritance may be heavy but at least we see the crimes. We hope that dialogue and dialogue can actually involve democratisation.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-644	Mr. Old President! It is positive that Håkan Svenneling is nevertheless clear that he regards Cuba as a one-party state and a dictatorship. This has not always been the case in the Left Party, as we know. The fact is that this is still not the case. There is in Sweden a cheerleader for the one-party state in Cuba. It is called the Swedish-Kubanska Föringen, and in it there are some people who are active – and who also have chair positions locally – who have run for the Left Party and in different ways are active in the party. They also hold very often meetings in the ABF building in Jönköping. ABF is a part of the Social Democracy, so there is a lot to do for the labour movement in Sweden when it comes to holding a rough run against the dictatorship in Cuba. Apart from the criticisms that have been made against Cuba's democratic shortcomings and shortcomings, Svenneling is sticking to something; he must, in the end, show somewhere that Cuba is still okay. Then we will come to this with social progress. In fact, Cuba was one of the richest countries in Latin America before Fidel Castro and his brother started their armed uprising. Today, Cuba is one of the poorest countries. Today we are being compared mainly with very poor countries, while at the time we were roughly in parity with the richest Latin American countries. A number of social indicators indicate that Cuba is now performing about as well or as badly as a number of other countries in Latin America. The difference is that these other countries do not have to be dragged by a bearded dictator in military uniform in power, but they have a free press, freedom of expression and democracy. So why highlight this social situation in Cuba as such an example?
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-649	Mr. Old President! I'll start with the Swedish-Cuban Association. I think it is important to remember, Fredrik, that we have freedom of association and freedom of opinion in Sweden, unlike Cuba. You can actually be a member of an association as long as you do not actively oppose the Left Party's views. It's okay that someone who thinks Cuba is great raises a motion to the Left Party Congress. However, in 2008 the Congress of the Left Party, which determines the party's policy and which decides what message I should convey, said that there are three things about Cuba that are important to mention. One is that Cuba is committing human rights violations. The second is the blockade of the United States, the importance and impact of which on Cuba's economy should not be underestimated. We will come back to this. The third point is social progress, to which we shall also come back. It's okay. After this debate, my email basket will be full of emails from left-wing parties who are mad at me for expressing these things about Cuba. Cuba has a bad economy, partly because of the US blockade, as we see. It is not surprising – if Norway, Finland, Germany and Denmark were to start a blockade against Sweden and stick to it for 60 years, it is clear as seventeen that it would affect our economy. In the case of Cuba, however, this has not meant democratisation. That's why we're a number of parties who think it's important to have dialogue and discussion about democracy, but you don't think so, Fredrik. Literacy is high in Cuba; we have done so before. Medical care is free of charge and available to everyone. What I think Cuba is doing well in its Latin American environment is that it is training doctors to a greater extent than many Latin American countries and ensuring that it helps other countries to have good access to healthcare. But, for example, Bolsonaro in Brazil has expelled all Cuban doctors. Who is affected by it? Not Bolsonaro himself, of course, but Brazil's poorest.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-660	Mr. Old President! It is true that literacy in Cuba is high. The question is what the Cubans have the opportunity to read. There are three permitted newspapers in Cuba. The first is Granma – it is the Communist Party newspaper. It looks like the magazine Proletären in Sweden; it is red and black. It comes out every day. The second daily newspaper is Juventud Rebelde. It is the newspaper of the Communist Party Youth League. The third is a newspaper called Trabajadores. It is the Communist Party's trade union paper. It's these three you can read. It is enough to read one of them, so to speak, because it says the same thing in all three. Granma, founded in 1965, has never, throughout her existence, posed a single critical question to a Cuban ruler, for the simple reason that it is the Communist Party's own newspaper. It is precisely the Granma newspaper that presents every year the social indicators that Cuba shovels into the international system and then spreads to Håkan Svenneling and his party friends and to other so-called progressive left-wing movements in the world to show that Cuba is a country that is making great social progress. This is, of course, to be welcomed by the regime for the fact that Håkan Svenneling repeats in his special opinion in the report we are now discussing. But the truth is that it is not possible to rely on these statistics, for the simple reason that it is completely impossible to control because there is no freedom of expression in Cuba. No Cuban ruler needs to sit in an Agenda Studio or a CNN studio and get difficult questions about these statistics. I don't know if Håkan Svenneling blindly would trust a statistic that comes from, for example, me if it couldn't be controlled. So the question is why, year after year, the Left Party repeats this mantra of social progress in Cuba when it is completely impossible to control Cuban statistics.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-670	Mr. Old President! Like Mr Fredrik, I stated in my speech that there is no freedom of the press in Cuba. It is, of course, an extreme restriction of human rights that you cannot read what you want. It goes without saying that there is certainly an interest from the Cuban regime in keeping statistics favourable to the regime. Even in democratic countries, we can see that those who govern try to adapt statistics that fit. But one cannot get away from the fact that the United Nations gets its transportation of medicine and medical equipment to Cuba blocked because of the United States blockade, because the companies that would help the United Nations take the medicine and the equipment are also being blocked for six months from operating with their ships in the United States. It is a fact, and it is still the case that statistics say that if you are exposed to a blockade, you get worse health care. I also think it is rather presumptuous for Fredrik Malm to pick up on literacy. We are in a country with 100% literacy. We have had the opportunity to have free rights, to speak and to think. Without being in Cuba, I think that a lot of Cubans still appreciate that they can read what is on a piece of paper. Then it is clear that one would like this paper to be freely written by a free thinking person. That is something we want to achieve by having a political agreement. What surprises me in this whole debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is that the policy of isolation is only directed towards Cuba and that it is not possible for Fredrik Malm to see other countries that it would like to isolate as an island or forget and say that this is the best policy for political development. I believe that there are little opportunities for positive political developments in Cuba. We have seen this – it has been 60 years, and we have not made much progress. But we must try; it is our responsibility as citizens of Sweden and the world for the future freedom of all Cubans.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-676	Mr. Old President! In this matter we have landed in some unorthodox constellations. I think it is important that we clarify where the dividing line goes, even if – this time – we happen to end up in the same half of the plane. I explained the attitude of the Moderates. We want to be tolerant, and we want to give it an opportunity. We don't believe in isolation. But we also want to contribute and give the opportunity to what has been Western happiness – a democratic stance based on liberal values, with free trade – in order also to open Cuba up in the long term. We note that the Left Party is also in favour of this agreement and that, like us Moderates, a special opinion has been given. It's there somewhere we notice the difference between our parties. In the Special Opinion of the Left Party, Cuba is mentioned twelve times on an A4 page, but with classical rhetoric the USA is mentioned six times. I find it a bit sad that when we talk about the world's most symbolic remaining Communist regime – North Korea may be the most unpleasant one, but Cuba is the most symbolic Communist regime – it is so important for the Left Party to address the negative significance of the US blockade. Håkan Svenneling talks about the economic blockade that has been kept alive by the United States for decades being excused with reference to human rights violations and that the Left Party agrees with the UN's criticism of the United States blockade. Håkan Svenneling also believes that the U.S. economic blockade against Cuba should be clearly condemned and that the U.S. should lift it immediately. Why this obsession with the United States? Why is it so difficult to say that the Cuban Communist regime alone is responsible for Cuba's repression?
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-683	Mr. Old President! The simple explanation is that it is not Cuba's individual responsibility. Through a 60-year blockade by its nearest neighbour, a much smaller country, the United States obviously bears a great responsibility for all human suffering in Cuba. Through its blockade, you stop everything that could be of benefit to the people of Cuba. You collectively punish an entire people because you don't like their leaders. I think we should reject that. It is also the political difference between the Left Party and the Moderates. I appreciate you requesting a reply, Hans Rothenberg. It is good that we are clarifying these differences. It is also a good thing that we have written each of our separate opinions in which we clarify our differences. In fact, I agree with much of what is stated in the particular opinion of the Moderates, precisely because you are clear about the demands for democratisation that need to be placed on Cuba's political leadership. I also think I mentioned that the US can play a positive role when I raised Obama. It was a very small window during a small period of the 60-year blockade when Obama tried to lighten and change it. Then, unfortunately, we got Donald Trump at the White House. And when it comes to every country we discuss in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we are talking about the influence of the United States. Whether it is the Middle East, Latin America or the European Union, we are talking about the role of the United States. Not talking about the role of the United States when we talk about Cuba is like not talking about something that affects a lot and that is actually there. That is why I think it is quite natural and that more people should talk about the role of the United States when it comes to Cuba. I still think it was a bit impressive that the role of the United States came up in your line change with Fredrik Malm and that you acknowledged that the United States is there. Before that, the United States was completely invisible in this debate.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-687	I would like to remind the honourable Member that the conversation is taking place via the President or as now the oldest President. We don't set each other up.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-688	Mr. Old President! That is right; it is good that Sweden has recognised the role of the United States. I think it is important, in a debate on Cuba, also to emphasise Cuba's responsibility for Cuba and the responsibility of the Cuban regime for the abuses suffered by its own people, which have been allowed to continue for decades. It is appropriate to ask the representative of the Left Party: Does the Left Party seriously mean that it is the United States' fault and that the United States has for 60 years prevented Cuba from developing in a democratic direction? Is it because of the United States that Fidel Castro and later his brother Raúl have oppressed their own people for decades? Is it because of the United States that Fidel Castro and his brother have spent tens of thousands of opposition Cubans in prison over the years? When we talk about the EU's agreements with Cuba, we should focus on what the EU can do. But we should also focus on what Cuba can and should do for Cuba in the name of decency, because there are other countries that use non-functioning blockades and other non-functioning activities in Cuba's neighbourhood. I want to ask you a straight question. Would the Communist regime in Cuba have been history if the United States had not interfered with blockades?
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-693	Mr. Old President! I think that the parliamentary leadership of a Rothenberg confuses Cuba and the people of Cuba. The criticism to be expressed and the responsibility to be placed in Cuba should be placed on the Cuban regime, not on the people of Cuba. The people of Cuba have not been allowed to vote, or when they vote, 98% of the votes go to Castro. All of us who are in a real democracy understand that these are not free and fair elections. This means that I think that the blockade of the United States must be mentioned on the basis that it affects everyone. Perhaps it affects even the people more than the political leadership of Havana. It makes me think it is important to see the role of the United States, and that is why we have presented the special opinion in which we make clear what the 60-year blockade of the United States has meant for the small island nation of Cuba and its peoples. Mr. Old President! Mr Rothenberg asked me a rhetorical question which is difficult to guess: should the US blockade be lifted, would that mean democratisation in Cuba? I think that what was seen during Obamas's time in terms of improving relations was a step in the right direction. I hope that Donald Trump will leave the White House and that it will be a democratic president who will pursue a completely different foreign policy so that the EU and the United States can work together to create democratisation in Cuba. That's my best hope. I have great confidence in the fact that both I and Mr Rothenberg are voting in favour of the agreement today. And if the U.S. population chooses another leader, it may have an effect on developments in Cuba. What concerns me, however, is the risk of what is known as the development of China, where we in the European Union only put trade and economic interests first and do not see the need for changes in human rights. We have seen this in China for a long time. Now the Moderates here in Sweden have in an exemplary way turned back the clock and said that human rights must be in the first place. I hope that we can be united in the future as well.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-698	Mr. Old President! I am the penultimate speaker, and most of what has been said about the EU's agreement with Cuba on political dialogue and cooperation. But I'd like to make a few points. This is an agreement that is a framework for EU-Cuba relations. The aim is to consolidate existing relations and to create an instrument to facilitate EU support for reform processes in the country and to promote European values and interests. The agreement brings the EU's relations with Cuba under a single framework. Within this framework, the EU has also been able to establish an annual human rights dialogue with Cuba together with other political dialogues. The agreement thus provides for cooperation and dialogue in a wide range of areas in terms of democracy, human rights, good governance, development cooperation, gender equality and trade. The Agreement stresses in particular the importance of respecting human rights, fundamental freedoms, democratic principles and the rule of law and of cooperating and complying with international rules on disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The agreement strengthens the EU's and Sweden's opportunities to promote democratic development and human rights in Cuba. In the bill, the government also points out that Sweden will continue to work towards safeguarding these values in the implementation of the agreement and ensuring civil society participation in the implementation. From some parties it sounds like the government and the parties behind the bill would not see the problems that exist in Cuba. That's not true at all. As far as the situation in Cuba is concerned, nobody here has questioned the fact that it is a one-party state without free and democratic elections and that civil and political rights are still being curtailed. Disparities are subject to arbitrary detention and harassment of police and security services. Activists are prevented from travelling. There are political prisoners. There are significant human rights obstacles to the freedom of expression and the organisation of civil society and many more restrictions that others here have mentioned in the past. Of all this there is nothing to say but criticism. Sweden has had relations with Cuba for a very long time, and we have a far-reaching commitment. The government clearly points out that democracy, human rights and the rule of law must be central to Sweden's and the EU's relations with Cuba, even when the agreement has been negotiated and ratified. In the further process, it is therefore extremely important that Cuba should show greater respect for human rights and that representatives of civil society organisations should be involved. Without this agreement, there are no formal conditions for the EU to be a driving force in Cuba's democratic development. The alternative to this agreement is not an agreement at all, and isolation of Cuba affects the local population in an even worse way. It may not be enough and it could have been clearer, but that is what we have. The difference today is not between how we see Cuba and the abuses of democracy and human rights that are taking place, but what is the best strategy for change: continuing to isolate as has been tried for decades or trying something new through increased political dialogue. I believe in that later. That is why I support the proposal in the report.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-707	Mr. Old President! The Green Party is a libertarian party. It has its roots in a movement that has always turned against hierarchies, not least state socialism and the kind of project that has enthused other parts of the left. In short, one could say that the Green Party does not like police states. Then the question is why this agreement is so important to the Green Party. In recent years, the European Union has negotiated a number of different agreements. To all of them, the Green Party has said no. The Green Party opposed the European Union's trade agreements with Canada by all countries. It opposed the European Union's comprehensive economic partnership with Japan, which is by the way the world's third largest economy. The Green Party also said no to the European Union's trade agreements with South Korea. It has been against TTIP and a number of other economic collaborations with democracies. The question is therefore why it is so important for the Green Party to conclude agreements with a Communist police state while saying no to a free trade agreement with Canada.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-710	Mr. Old President! Fredrik Malm refers to trade agreements that the Environmental Party has previously been critical of. We have been based on environmental and climate aspects. We have seen that there have not been sufficiently clear wordings about being able to protect it, among other things. That has been our greatest objection in these parts. As Fredrik Malm points out, we have also seen that it has not been about agreements with states where people are suffering incredibly badly and where a change of regime is needed to improve the situation. This is what this agreement is about. It is not about trade in itself, but about being able to start a dialogue in order to break the development that has existed in Cuba and that is not getting better. For decades we have tried an old policy and an old road, but it has not worked. Let's try something new. I would like to ask Fredrik Malm what the Liberals have as an alternative. What changes do the Liberals want to see towards Cuba in order to make improvements for the Cuban people?
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-713	Mr. Old President! In the best of worlds, the cooperation agreement with the Cuban regime is an agreement that contributes to democracy in Cuba. But that is not the case. This is not true. There was a so-called common position, a European position, from the 1990s which was much clearer. It required democratic reforms in Cuba before opening up investments in hotel chains and other things. The reason why this agreement has been reached is the opposite of what Janine Alm Ericson claims. It wants to tone down the demands for democracy in order instead to gain access to the Cuban market. When it comes to environmental aspects, consideration must be given to how the planned economy is good for the environment. In all countries where the planned economy has been applied, it has been shown that nature's resources have been very inefficiently managed. The Soviet Union is surely the clearest example of this. To believe somehow that Cuba would be better at environmental considerations than Canada would be very strange. Canada has a wide-ranging internal debate on how to relate to its natural resources. If Cuba had natural resources other than sugar, such as oil in Venezuela, which is a country close to Cuba, there would be no free debate, no environmental movement or environmental considerations at all. The corrupt rulers would evict themselves on these natural resources. The question remains. It will be a little strange signal that the Green Party, with its long history of promoting freedom for the individual and other things, believes it is very important that the EU has a cooperation agreement with the Communist dictatorship and the police state of Cuba. But it does not want the EU to have an agreement with Canada, South Korea and Japan. To me as a Liberal, this seems to be a completely incomprehensible attitude.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-719	Mr. Old President! It feels like Fredrik Malm interprets both my answer and this bill as a fucking interpreter of the Bible. This is about the need for change and the promotion of democracy and human rights. That is our starting point for this agreement. I note that Fredrik Malm did not answer the question as to what the alternative to continued isolation is and whether he believes that the way of acting that has not worked in recent decades would begin to work now.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-721	Mr. Old President! Janine Alm Ericson mentioned that the government should work for civil society to be included in the work to democratise Cuba and improve human rights. It feels like a very bad start when this has been completely ignored in the agreement. Democracy activists, civil society and opposition forces from Cuba have not been allowed in. It's a very bad start. This shows that the government, which has ignored this clear fact, is now once again betraying those who perhaps most need our support. I was therefore going to ask Mr Niemi the same question. How can we, as an environmental party, ignore all the human rights activists and democrats who have warned against this agreement? They have clearly declared and appealed to the Riksdag to say no to the agreement.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-723	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Markus Wiechel, for the question! I couldn't agree more. It is incredibly bad that civil society has not been allowed into these issues. But neither have they in the last few decades. The developments that we have seen have not only taken place now, although we can discuss whether it has been a deterioration or an improvement. The situation in Cuba has been extremely long in terms of democracy, human rights and the inclusion of civil society. That is why we think it is time to change our strategy. It is time to get together, get a framework for work and be able to speak with a clearer voice towards Cuba. I think we both agree on the hope that it will be a workable strategy and much better than what we have done so far.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-724	Mr. Old President! It is a fact that the security services have stepped up their repression of oppositionists in Cuba since the beginning of the work on the agreement. We also know what the situation in Cuba is like thanks to exiles and human rights activists, who have testified to it. These are the same people who now appeal to the Riksdag to say no to the agreement. They know what the situation is, and they should be listened to. In my role as a Member of Parliament, these are the people I listen to. I wish that would also be the case for the Green Party, the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Moderates. Unfortunately, that is not the case.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-726	Mr. Old President! I really didn't want to relativise that things look getting worse. These are very worrying signals that we are receiving. I didn't mean to. What is meant is that we want to see a changed strategy, a strategy that can lead to improvement. I would like to ask Markus Wiechel what the proposal is, but he has no speaking time left. We have not heard in the debate that has taken place here about any other strategy that could take us forward. We are prepared to be constructive but also to put pressure. That is what we hope for in the future with this agreement.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-728	Mr. Old President! When I hear Janine Alm Ericson from the Green Party arguing for this agreement on the basis that it will improve human rights, democracy and the rule of law, I wonder if she has read the new Constitution. Has Janine Alm Ericson read the agreement that we are now going to consider? If you read the agreement, you can see that it is on this basis that future agreements will be reached. It is an agreement that confirms the Cuban interpretation of human rights – it has emerged in the debate how it looks. The agreement confirms the Cuban interpretation of democracy – the word is even inscribed in the Constitution, but it is not the order that we see before us when we talk about democracy. The agreement also confirms the Cuban interpretation of the rule of law. On that basis, we will continue to work to move forward with new agreements. That is exactly what this agreement aims to do: to lay the foundations for further work. For my part, I would not like to give this go-ahead, this green light to move forward on this basis, but I would like to see a change. Why does the Green Party choose to add this as a basis for the continued discussion, rather than putting pressure on both the current government and the European Commission to demand a change towards the view of democracy and the view of the human rights that we thought was universal?
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-730	Mr. Old President! I am not going to say anything about the fact that the new Constitution would be good or that we would somehow be behind it. However, the Agreement stresses the importance of respecting human rights, fundamental freedoms, democratic principles and the rule of law, and of cooperating and complying with international rules on disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. There's something there. I do not think this can be interpreted as having been given some sort of carte blanche. This puts a lot of pressure on you to change. There must be a change, and we want to see it much more sooner than later. But I would like to ask Kerstin Lundgren: If this agreement is so bad and legitimises so much, how does the Center Party want to change the current situation? The old way and the old politics have not worked. How do we want to help create democracy and respect for human rights in Cuba?
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-732	Mr. Old President! It sounds like when we discuss Chinese politics. In China it is said that we stand up for human rights and democracy! For our part, we have come so far today as to say that this is a view of democracy and a view of the human rights that is not compatible with ours. In 2019 Cuba has adopted a new constitution that uses exactly the same methodology. You do the Cuban interpretation. It is not for the Swedish Parliament to confirm, as we see it. We have had the view that we should let this agreement rest, which means that we can continue to hold talks. This has been done since 2016, when the EU decided on this. It has been possible to continue to hold talks and conduct political dialogue to see if further progress has been made. But you should not proceed with new agreements on this basis. We don't want to see that, Mr. Old President. That is why we do not want to give the green light to the agreement. We think that the Swedish side should take advantage of the opportunity to let the yellow light shine. Actually, we would think it was best. Now we are going to vote no, because we do not think that the agreement should be let through. We would also like the Green Party to choose this solution. It would give a negotiating mandate both to the EU and to Cuba on the Swedish side in terms of continuing to deal with these issues.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-735	Mr. Old President! I thank Kerstin Lundgren for her reply. Then let us understand that the Center Party does not want this agreement right now. Instead, we'll float in limbo. If so, what is to happen in the next step remains to be seen. I think it is a good thing when strict demands are made on development, and I think that this agreement lives up to it. Sweden and the EU will continue to press for democracy and human rights in Cuba. I hope that this will lead to a change.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-737	Mr. Old President! In 2003, the Cuban regime struck with the iron glove which only dictatorships have access to, mercilessly, lying, oppressive and violently, in order to crush the burgeoning democracy movement in Cuba. These were some of my friends they arrested. I had come to know them the years before 2003. They fought for freedom and dignity for the Cuban people. They knew what they were risking because their lives were already marked by harassment and threats. But they did it anyway. It was Regis Iglesia and Tony Díaz. They were arrested together with José Daniel Ferrer, Óscar Espinosa Chepe, Héctor Palacios and some seventy others. They were sentenced to an average of 20 years in prison. Many of them spent many years in prison before some of them were released and forced into exile. The long-haired Regis Iglesia, whom I had found through heavy metal a special friendship with the years before, was forced to shave as part of the humiliation suffered by the Cuban regime. He was beaten and turned into unrecognizable. After a summary trial of false charges involving no media or foreign personnel, he was in prison for 18 years. He was in a minimal cell in a basement in one of Cuba's hardest prisons. He slept on a concrete bed, in periods without access to daylight and for long periods of isolation. Then what was his crime? Well, he thinks that all Cubans, like all other peoples, have the right to freedom and democracy, what we call human rights. He had been threatened, harassed, isolated and gone unemployed. His own family had been divided by the regime. When he was imprisoned in the basement, the threats to him increased. He was told every day: If there are any protests, you will die here in prison! His daughters, like his mother, had to try to travel to the distant prison to see him two hours every three months. After just under eight years, he was released and forced to leave his own homeland in order not to return. It's the same regime then as it is now. It is the same Communist dictatorship. It's the same oppression. It's the same surveillance. It's the same threat. It's the same incarceration. It's the same reprisals, ostracism, angivery and harassment. There have been no changes of value in terms of democracy and freedom of expression. Mr. Old President! There are times when you can make a little difference. Today is such an opportunity. Today, Parliament's opportunity to say no – unless Cuba makes real improvements to democracy and human rights, we should not have this agreement either. Then we should not multiply aid or offer preferential trade terms. Against this it is said that it is about dialogue and trade that will bring about change in Cuba. I agree that dialogue is often good. So how do you know whether to choose the contractual route with dialogue or the path where you make demands before giving access to the benefits? A good indicator of this, I think, is to listen to what the democratic forces want. It is always a good question to ask yourself: What do the civil society actors want? Those who do not join the leadership of the regime, those who live under oppression, those who are threatened, what do they want? That question should be asked for two reasons. Firstly, a horizontal objective for a country like Sweden should be to give moral and actual support to peaceful advocates of democracy and human rights, especially if they are under constant pressure and constantly suppressive in a often horrendous way from an authoritarian regime. Secondly, we can imagine that they know something about what helps the situation in the dictatorship, perhaps better than we do here. There is now talk from the Moderates that there should be a trial period of five years, a kind of attempt to hold up a fig leaf to cover up the fact that the Riksdag today meets a dictatorship. We're not supposed to know much about how it's going to happen. Once we have adopted this agreement, what I understand unanimity in the European Union is required to terminate it. This is where we make the deal, or we don't. In practice, we have had a probationary period for several years since the provisional entry into force of the agreement pending final approval. We know the result of the application of the agreement for several years. What is the result so far? Yes, the situation of democracy and human rights has deteriorated. The repression and reprisal of pro-democracy have increased. Let me give you an example. On 1 October, Cuban democracy activist José Daniel Ferrer was arrested by Cuban authorities in Santiago de Cuba. He was also imprisoned in Cuba in the spring of 2003, released after many years in prison and has since been arrested on and off. Since October 1, he has been imprisoned, and he has not had contact with his family for a long time. Both Amnesty International and the Civil Rights Defenders have demanded his release. For over 15 years, he has been one of Cuba's most influential democracy activists, active in the Movimiento Cristiano Liberación, which is my sister party. He was already engaged around the turn of the millennium in the Varela project, the petition where thousands of Cubans defied the regime and put their names under a call for democratic transition. He was sentenced to more than 20 years in prison and imprisoned for 8 years. And now he's been arrested and imprisoned again. What sheds particular light on this latest arrest and imprisonment is this agreement. The arrest took place the day before the EU and Cuba began their annual human rights dialogue in Brussels. The detention of José Daniel Ferrer is only one of several in the autumn. When the EU High Representative Federica Mogherini visited Cuba in September, 188 people were arrested to make protests impossible during the visit. Both of these examples show that the Cuban regime has absolutely no ambition to comply with the human rights principles enshrined as some sort of basis for the whole agreement between Cuba and the EU and does not want to allow an open dialogue on human rights within the country at all. But perhaps the EU has succeeded in other ways, someone objects, with its dialogue in the years that the agreement has lived and worked. What, for example, did the EU say when they visited Cuba? What does the EU write about Cuba in its official reports? The EU notes that Cuba is a one-party democracy – a one-party democracy, it says – holding elections to local, regional and national levels. It is not about Cuba calling itself that; it is the European Union that writes that Cuba is a one-party democracy. George Orwell could hardly have formulated it better. When the EU's foreign representative Federica Mogherini was in Havana in September, she noted that Cuba has implemented a generational shift and adopted a new constitution and can now concentrate on economic reform and environmental issues, despite the fact that nothing has fundamentally changed with regard to human rights. On the contrary, the dictatorship and the position of the Communist Party have been enshrined in the Constitution. And the turn of the generation is that the regime managed to maintain the repression after Fidel Castro died and Raúl Castro returned. The dialogue seems to have only led Cuba to influence the EU with its perverted view of democracy. That is what seems to have happened so far. Is not all this enough trial time, enough to say no to this agreement, I really do not know what it is. After the Swedish government withdrew in June the bill to approve this agreement from the Riksdag, 391 Cuban democracy activists sent a letter to the government in which they pleaded not to approve the agreement. They wrote that Sweden should not do so until the Cuban regime has stopped harassing and oppressing Cuban civil society and released all political prisoners. Is that an unreasonable requirement? Now the government proposal is back, largely unchanged. The government pleads for and wants us to approve the agreement. The Sakharov Prize Osvaldo Osvaldo Payá, who died in a car accident surrounded by strange circumstances, has a daughter named Rosa Maria, who has taken up her father's cape. She calls for Sweden to say no so that the agreement falls. We therefore know that the proponents of democracy in Cuba want us to say no. And they don't argue for boycott. I do not argue for a boycott à la USA. I myself have been very critical of the American blockade. But that is not the same as now saying yes to this agreement. That's two completely different things. You can also ask yourself who has welcomed Sweden's signature and approval of the agreement. It is the Swedish-Cuban Association, the well-documented minions of the dictatorship regime in Sweden, the same people who do not want Sweden to have any dialogue whatsoever with the democracy movement and the proponents of democracy in Cuba. They're the ones who pull out in defense of the agreement. Furthermore, when, for example, Civil Rights Defenders say that we should reject the agreement in order not to reduce the work of democracy and human rights in Cuba, we should listen and do so, unless we have extremely strong arguments against it. It does not have the government and the Left Party, and it does not have the Moderates. Parliament does not always have such a great influence on foreign policy, but today we do. It is for each of the Members of this House to adopt or reject this agreement. In my view, they also take the position of parties and Members in favour of the agreement indirectly for the Communist regime in Cuba and for the Cuban democracy movement. The agreement is designed as the Cuban regime wants, without Cuban human rights defenders ever having an opinion on its content. I think it is a misdemeanour that the Swedish Government and several parties in the Swedish Parliament cannot sort out who to support, who to hold under their arms. I think that is what is happening here today: we reject the oppressed democrats and welcome the representatives of the dictatorship. If we do, I actually think it's pitiful. We have to say no to the deal. We can do so today by voting in favour of the reservation. The Christian Democrats will do that.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-764	Mr. Old President! I want to thank you, Jakob, for your unbelievably strong commitment to the Cuban people and their desire for freedom. It was a very strong speech; it actually touched your heart when you told me about the friends you met and have constant contact with. I think that's good. I have been listening to all the speeches by those who do not want us to sign and ratify the agreement. I still have not received a single concrete answer as to what the alternative is. What is the alternative to the agreement? How will it be designed? What kind of dialogue should there be between the EU and Cuba in the future? Is it isolation and continued stigmatisation, or is it – as has been said very clearly – that the EU is now introducing a continued political dialogue in which we, now also at the invitation of the Swedish parliament, say that it is incredibly urgent that civil society actors and the opposition can also be included in the processes? Is it better, then, that we stand by in silence and silence, refrain from acting and have no dialogue with Cuba? Is it better that we continue to allow the regime to operate in silence without any kind of transparency, contacts, communication or other activities? Should the outside world keep Cuba away from the radar and instead just stand and hope that it will happen by itself? Nothing has happened in the last 60 years – nothing. It's still there. The regime has continued to oppress its population. It has acted completely against international, global human rights. We are in a position to ask ourselves: What should we do? Now there is a seed of experimentation and political dialogue. My question to you, Jakob Forssmed, is therefore: What is the alternative?
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-769	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Mr President, for the question. As I said in my speech, I think that the most important thing to do in these situations is to listen to those whom you want to support. It is those who want democracy and are struggling at the risk of their own lives to make it possible. You should listen to what they want and what they think, and they do not want us to sign the agreement. They think it's a bad idea. What we should do instead is, of course, reject the agreement and say: we will ensure that Cuba does not receive these benefits and opportunities for trade and increased aid with the EU by less than releasing all political prisoners and prisoners of conscience and that democratic reforms are being carried out properly. That is how we should use this type of contractual opportunity. We should not do what we are doing now: in a way that I understand it undemandingly. If I had been in favour of this, I would have been incredibly concerned about what the agreement has led to so far in terms of deterioration and allowing and actually conducting dialogues with the regime, even though it imprisons people for not being able to protest and demonstrate when EU representatives visit Cuba. This also applies to those who were initially in favour of the agreement. How can the honourable Member defend the fact that we are now openly approving this? Then it is better that we reject it. Then we have freedom of action to try to get a better position, involving the democracy activists. Then we can have the dialogue with them in particular and support them and invite them to our embassies. Then we can ensure that it is they with whom the EU is primarily engaged in dialogue. Give them rye in the back, give them moral support and give them help to actually keep up with the work of democracy! We can see that the agreement does not seem to succeed at all with the intentions.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-774	Mr. Old President! However, a little bit has happened in the meantime since the implementation of the agreement. The pressure has not diminished, but it has still been given, for example, more openness to the internet and other communications. Civil society has had a little more open opportunities. For example, LGBT people have been allowed greater freedom in Cuban society, as the honourable Member is well aware. But I still don't get a clear answer. What's the alternative? Should we just listen? Or should we act, and how should we act? The blockades that have existed for so many years have hit the civilian population hard. People are at an economic disadvantage. Economic prosperity has stood still for quite some time, as the honourable Member knows. If one continues to refrain from doing anything, economic prosperity or the development of democracy will not develop in a positive direction, but one may end up in a situation where it may even get worse before it may be better in 5, 10, 15, 20, 25 or 30 years' time. Is it not better, then, to have an active political dialogue, an attempt and at least a seed to influence from outside? Instead, we see civil society and those oppositionists who constantly face resistance and never have a reasonable chance of influencing society from within. It is this form of external pressure that at least as it looks today – we have no idea what it will look like in ten years' time – can create the conditions for transparency and follow-up to what is happening. Perhaps, in talks with civil society and the opposition, one can at the same time get a better picture and a deeper understanding of how development can become more democratic in Cuba.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-779	Mr. Old President! The honourable Member is talking about external pressure. I have just shown in my speech from the speaker that there is no external pressure from the European Union. Rather, it is Cuba that has affected the EU in these years. I am extremely concerned about the development of the agreement, and I think that those who advocate it should be very concerned and think again before pressing the 'yes' button today. This is not good. There's no such thing as pressure that should exist. The honourable Member asks again what the alternative is. The alternative is to ensure that this pressure is maintained and not to give Cuba these preferences in terms of trade conditions, increased aid, increased top-level visits, and so on with less than carrying out democratic reforms and not establishing the primacy of the Communist regime in its constitution. That's the alternative. The honourable Member asks the question again: what is the alternative? I have told you here what the alternative is, and it would be far better. That is also what civil society organisations in Cuba advocate, that is what democracy activists advocate, and that is what human rights organisations, like Civil Rights Defenders, advocate. That's the alternative. The alternative is not a blockade. I'm against a blockade. I'm against the American blockade. I have written articles where I have argued that it is not a good idea. But it is something quite different to write this kind of preferential agreement with a dictatorship without demanding the kind of compensation that we, as the European Union, can demand in the form of Cuba releasing political prisoners and ensuring that democratic reforms and reforms that benefit the people of the country really also in terms of freedom and democracy are implemented.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-784	Mr. Old President! The committee is today debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on housing allowance and overcrowding. I take note of the letter and the observations it has drawn up, and I ask for the reservation to be approved. It is a good report that well describes the purpose it has been given. It addresses various aspects of overcrowding and the possible impact it could have on families, their health and children's school outcomes. In the Swedish National Audit Office's review, we can read that overcrowding has increased in the last 20 years and that the increase is greatest among foreign born. It is an effect of a sharp population increase and a somewhat slower housing construction in combination with the economic conditions of families. This conclusion can also be read in the letter, which states that the population density is highest in metropolitan municipalities where the housing stock is generally lower, for obvious reasons, and among households with lower incomes. What also emerges is that there is no support for the fact that, according to norm 3, overcrowding would have any negative effects on either the health of adults or children, the absence of adults or the school results of children. I dare say that there are other factors that can have a greater impact on us, so that we feel worse and perform worse in school, than the living space. But it can be a combination where the living space, is not what affects itself, as the Swedish National Audit Office has also arrived at. Mr. Old President! The Government has already given the task of reviewing the regulations on housing allowance, maintenance and maintenance support, which we welcome. This assignment includes, among other things, looking at whether and possibly how the housing area will affect the housing allowance. It is also for this reason that we have chosen to support the Center Party's reservation to pay particular attention to the situation of single parents. We Swedish democrats in our family policy committee motion have highlighted precisely the issue and the desire to review, in particular, the maintenance and maintenance allowance, which today does not work very well in view of the parallel systems that exist, which can easily be a source of conflict for parents who are in separation. Similarly, we highlight the issue of housing allowance, where what I can follow backwards has been a somewhat motley path for single parents. The laws and regulations we have should, to the greatest extent, not to say always, be as little conflict-driven as possible and provide parents with equal opportunities regardless of whether they are cohabiting or living alone and having social relations. We Swedish democrats see that the very issue of housing allowance and the rules that exist about it, as to whether you can be eligible for housing allowance, can be a bit tangled. Mr President, I would like to The purpose of the housing allowance is to provide economically weak households with the opportunity to live in sufficiently spacious housing and provide basic financial security for families. As the law stands today, in cases where a parent has a child's place of residence at times, benefits can only be provided through the social security allowance when a dwelling is at least two rooms and kitchens. We believe that in cases where the parents are single, it is important that the housing allowance and the rules on overcrowding do not act as an obstacle in any sense to enable help with the housing rent. In the bill New special allowance within the housing allowance for children living alternately, which was discussed here in the Riksdag in 2017, the proposal for a special allowance for alternate housing was adopted. This is very positive and means that even the parent who does not have the child written to him or her has the opportunity to take part in a housing allowance. The thing is that the parent who is not a resident parent needs a living space even when the child is not in place in the dwelling. It's not like you get a rent deduction for the days the child doesn't live with you. Mr President, I would like to What is asked in the reservation is to take into account the situation of single people in the future work, mainly in view of the social security contributions available and the requirements required to participate in it. Now there was no majority in favour of the reservation in committee, but I hope that Parliament will be able to take this on board.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-796	Mr President, I would like to This debate is about the Swedish National Audit Office's report on housing allowance and overcrowding. My proposal is that the government's continued work on the design of the housing allowance and when reviewing the standard of overcrowding should pay particular attention to different family constellations and the situation of single parents. The purpose of the housing allowance is to promote a good standard of housing even for households with a weak economy. There has been a reduction in the payment of this contribution in recent years. One reason is that you have set a ceiling for how large a housing area you should be able to apply for a grant for. It should be made in relation to the decision on what is overcrowding and not. In connection with its review, the Swedish National Audit recommends that the Government review the design and application of the congestion standard, as it is not being used to a greater extent today when it comes to, for example, the assessment of financial assistance. The review, which will be presented in autumn 2020, will examine how grants will be provided for sufficiently spacious housing and how the housing area will affect the housing allowance. Mr President, I would like to I and the Center Party think it is good that this review is carried out so that we get a relevant use of the regulations. But we also want the changes that may be proposed to take into account also those parents who do not live together and have their children full-time. Today's regulations make it different how much you get in housing allowance depending on how much of the time a child lives with the parent. If the child lives with one parent for less than 12 days, which is almost half the month, the housing allowance decreases. In addition, there is today a requirement for the size of housing the parents should have. The dwelling must be at least two rooms and kitchens and 40 square metres. The corresponding requirement does not apply to the parent where the child lives for at least 12 days per month. Those rules run the risk of causing conflicts among parents who are already finding it difficult to cooperate. We know that the economy is often the driving force behind conflicts. If the child lives ten or twelve days a month with one parent, there is a risk that we will continue the conflicts. This is not to make it as good for the child as possible, but to make it work in the family economy for those who depend on housing allowance. The child must have a good housing situation whether or not he or she lives with both of his or her parents and whether he or she lives more or less than half the time with one parent. In the study on overcrowding and housing allowance, it is important to take into account also the children who live with one of their parents so that the norm or allowance does not become a reason for continuing to run an already infected situation. That is the reason for the Centre Party's follow-up motion, Mr President, and that is why I am in favour of the Centre Party's reservation.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-802	Mr President, I would like to Almost everywhere in the world, the word mambo is associated with an exotic dance with associated music. Yeah, party and fun and happy people. Almost everywhere, except here in Sweden! At home, mambo means that you live involuntarily at home with your mother until you turn 30. This is not an exotic dance but an involuntary situation that you find difficult to get out of. Yes, it may even feel quite powerless when you're at home dancing with your mother in the kitchen, a kitchen that's not big enough for both of you either. You may now also hear that the music here too is another form of music, a little more subdued perhaps. I don't mind dancing with my mother myself. But perhaps not every day, perhaps not in a housing situation that makes it difficult for me to go out fully into adulthood and create my own future and family. Mambo is a festive word in most places in the world. But at home, that word involves not being able to afford to leave home. Here, little children soon grow up, are afraid of the word mambo and dream of other things. Mr President, I would like to Of course, this must not be the case. This report deals with overcrowding and housing allowances. These words will continue to be heard many times in the debates. What's the cramping standard 3? There is a lot of mention in the national audit report. Norm 3 is a government guideline for what is considered to be the lowest acceptable space standard. The Normen says that a household should have at least one kitchen and living room and that each family member should have their own room so that the household should not be regarded as crowded. This means that a household with two children should stay in at least four rooms and kitchens. In its review, the Swedish National Audit Office has answered the following questions: Has the boytrestriction contributed to overcrowding? Has increased overcrowding contributed to reduced health and increased use of the social security system? Has the increase in overcrowding contributed to a deterioration in school performance? The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the current congestion standard to see if it is fit for purpose and calls for clarification of it. The report also states that there is no support for the fact that the increase in overcrowding has contributed to the deterioration of health and the use of social security or to the deterioration of school outcomes based on norm 3. But if you read the Swedish National Audit Office's report carefully, you can see that the Swedish National Audit Office is at the same time guarding itself by writing that it is reasonable to believe that there is a level of overcrowding that has negative consequences, which I think most people in here also understand. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that the extreme overcrowding, where more than two people share bedrooms, has doubled over the last 20 years, from approximately 2.5 per cent to 5 per cent of the population. The size of urban municipalities such as Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö is 24 to 29 per cent, and in the City of Stockholm it is almost 30 per cent. Mr President, I would like to It is important to use the political tools at hand. Overcrowding is an urgent issue for the Social Democrats and the government. We cannot have a situation where people cannot find peace in their own homes. Children also need space, partly to study, and partly to get the privacy that young people are entitled to. Therefore, Mr President, it is important to use the political tools at hand. Since 2017, the Government has allocated SEK 225 million to combat overcrowding. We're proud of that. We welcome the government's announcement to review the housing standard within the housing allowance and the commissioning of the investigation, which will investigate the objective of giving financially weak households the opportunity to stay with good and more spacious housing. That is a good thing, and we hope that the investigation will come up with concrete and sensible proposals. Mr President, I would like to The housing allowance has been in place since the mid-1930s. Initially, the objective of housing policy was emphasised. The housing allowance was then intended to stimulate increased consumption of housing. Today, the housing allowance has a family, distributional and housing policy purpose. The housing allowance is currently an important part of the economic family policy, which aims primarily to provide basic economic security for families with children during the period when they have a high dependency burden. The report from the Swedish National Audit also shows that central government expenditure on housing allowance has almost halved from 8.4 billion in 1996 to 4.6 billion in 2017. It is not because we have too few families with children who need the support, but because the political decisions made it more difficult for families with children to receive the housing allowance. The review also shows that this halving is largely due to changes in housing allowance and the introduction of maximum income-based living area. For the first time in 20 years, the income limit of housing allowance was raised in 2017. This was the first time since 1997. It has been raised from SEK 117 000 to SEK 127 000, and now it is at SEK 135 000. It will be gradually increased until 2021. That's good, but it's not enough. We also need to build more housing with reasonable rents and housing for different large families. We know that jobs and economics are linked in the lives of each individual citizen. These are two important foundations in adult life and in order to be an independent adult. Adults need to have an income and a job to go to as well as an opportunity for saving, for example to an intervention apartment. We also need to have more municipal rental apartments with reasonable rents, and therefore it is important that our municipalities around the country protect the commons. Mr President, I would like to Whatever our background, most of us have dreams of the future as we grow up. A common dream for the future is to get a place to live and a job you enjoy and to form your own family – to meet love and start the adult journey together. Few dream of living at home until they turn 40. Few parents dream of their children becoming a mambo. Yes, you want to be independent and have your own, and in it is the dream of having someone to come home to as you have chosen. In it, the home is also central – a home that every citizen can afford and get. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-821	Mr President, I would like to This year it is 19 years since the state and the Swedish Church split up in 2000. Since the change in relations between the state and church, a church antiquarian compensation has been paid from the state to the Swedish Church. It is intended to cover the additional costs arising from the culturally-historically important values that many of the Swedish Church's buildings have. Although the church receives compensation from the state to preserve and manage these, the church and its members bear the great cost of property maintenance. The churches of the Swedish Church have a lot to tell about our history, our countryside and the people who lived and worked there. Often the church is the oldest building in the area and represents a cohesive force and continuity in society. Without our churches, it is difficult to understand our history and thus our present. It is therefore important that the cultural heritage of the church is preserved and maintained. Our churches, however, are not museums. They are living buildings where people meet in faith, joy, hope and love, but also sorrow. The vast majority of Swedes have in some way a relationship with the church, and often our most important life events have taken place in just one church. It is therefore important that it should be a church in the first place and not a political pawn. Nevertheless, the government and the Minister for Culture seem to believe that we still have a state church. In the letter from the Government that the Riksdag is now to take a position on, there are several examples of attempts to point out the direction of the Church of Sweden. Among other things, the Government makes recommendations on how to use the church rooms and how to work with sustainability. We are very much opposed to this. In the letter The ecclesiastical cultural heritage gives the government recommendations on how to use the church premises of the Church of Sweden. The argument put forward is that it is important that the churches are used to make the ecclesiastical cultural heritage available. Misunderstand me quite rightly: we Moderates naturally also think it is important that the cultural heritage of the church is made available. However, we do not evaluate the activities of the Church of Sweden in its premises, whether they are services of worship, language cafés, Bible studies or concerts. It's up to the church itself to decide without pointers from politics. We protect the principle of arm's length distance, even when it comes to the Church of Sweden. Since the change in relations between the state and church, a church antiquarian compensation has been paid from the state to the Swedish Church, which I mentioned earlier. It is intended to cover the additional costs arising from the culturally-historically important values that many of the Swedish Church's buildings have. Although the church receives compensation from the state to preserve and manage these, the church and its members bear the great cost of property maintenance. Mr President, I would like to Just because a state church antiquarian compensation is paid, it is not reasonable that neither the government nor the parliament have views on the church's activities. The thousands of years of cultural heritage that the Swedish Church manages affects all of us Swedes, not just the members of the church. Although the Church of Sweden is an inalienable part of our common history and culture and is also an important part of our civil society, it is not government money that finances the church, but it is its members that do. It is therefore also important that the Church of Sweden be protected from government stakes. When it comes to the accessibility of the ecclesiastical cultural heritage, the government has views on how to meet this. It is important that the state-funded ecclesiastical cultural heritage via the church antiquarian compensation is available and that, for this reason, redundant churches are not desirable. We share that view with the government. However, how the church should see this is not a matter for either parliament or government to point out. In this context, it is therefore important to point out that since the change in relationship came into force, accessibility has not deteriorated, despite the declining membership of the Church of Sweden. Yet the government has a need to point out to the church how this is to be met, something that each congregation, pastorate and diocese most certainly decides for itself. Mr President, I would like to The fact that a left-wing government finds it difficult to protect civil society from state interference is perhaps not surprising. The Left often has difficulty making a distinction between the state and the rest of society. As a moderate, however, I always protect the society that is larger than the state, both in church and in other social spheres. People should not have to see either their spiritual residence, their sports involvement or, for that matter, their local associations are politicized by clouting governments. For this reason, we are opposed to parts of the government's letter and have therefore presented a follow-up motion which we will follow up in this House. A free civil society is the cornerstone of democratic society, and we moderates will fight for that at all times. That is why I would like to support the joint reservation of the Moderates and Christian Democrats.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-833	Mr President, I would like to It is an event that looks like an idea that I literally come straight from the Council's session in Uppsala, where we have just debated and made decisions on activities and finances for years to come. In the midst of all this, we discover, and know from before, that the Swedish Church is facing a steel bath in the coming years. Fewer members make it necessary for more and more congregations to look after their homes, and in this case it is a question of having to sell out churches that cannot be run. Sweden's ecclesiastical cultural heritage is the country's largest coherent cultural heritage, a shared asset and a shared responsibility. The heritage and the environments are appreciated by both believers and non-believers and by both local residents and visitors. The Swedish Church is by a majority of the country's citizens what you can call a folk church – no longer a state church but by far the largest religious community, one of the largest organisations in civil society and a very large employer. The church is also what you can call Sweden's largest cultural house because it manages both the country's most extensive cultural heritage and the church rooms offer a rich and vibrant music and choir tradition that reflects the intangible cultural heritage. The government expresses in the letter we have to consider that the state should continue to take responsibility for the ecclesiastical cultural heritage. At the same time, the government describes a search print indicating that the resources allocated are insufficient and that the funding for the church antiquarian compensation has remained at the same level for almost ten years. The government's situation calls for an action plan to be presented in order to be credible. The fact that the government allows its part of the financial burden on the care of the ecclesiastical cultural heritage to be reduced by the missing lists, while the church, with a declining number of members, has to contribute more and more means a reduced level of ambition in terms of responsibility for the Christian cultural heritage. The physical cultural heritage is a unique treasure that it is existentially important for us as a nation to care for and protect, much thanks to the relatively mild reformation the Swedish churches underwent in relation to other Lutheran churches. The value of government and opposition seems to agree at least in words. On the other hand, the government does not seem to pay attention to or appreciate the intangible ecclesiastical cultural heritage to the same extent. The government should, in our opinion, explain the reasons for the government's decline in ambition regarding the ecclesiastical cultural heritage, explain that the church antiquarian compensation has not been listed since 2010, while the church's economic horizon is dark and return with a clearer explanation of what the purpose of the church antiquarian compensation should be. We also want the government to explain more clearly its views on the state of the intangible cultural heritage. Account needs to be taken of the fact that many small parishes with declining population bases and thus fewer members have more difficulty in coping with their own efforts to preserve cultural heritage. Soul care and social work can be set against the preservation and accessibility of cultural heritage, and it hurts. There is a pressing need to strengthen the church antiquarian compensation with the aim of finding a model to list it over time so that it is not eroded in the long term. In a row after a row in the letter, the government points out that the church should collaborate and network, be open and accessible and function not only as a place of worship but also preferably as a homestead, dance and theatre scene, art hall and museum. In particular, the government highlights churches which, in the presentation of cultural heritage, have woven in today's social issues, such as integration. Much of this already happens on a voluntary basis, but the fact that the government identifies concrete activities is problematic. All will easily be none, as was stated yesterday during the session of the Council. The government describes how county boards tend to be more permissive to changes when churches are taken out of service. In a time of declining membership of the Church of Sweden and a declining commitment from the state, there is a risk of churches being divested to a greater extent in the long term. This underlines, on the one hand, the importance of preventive measures against the withdrawal of churches and, on the other hand, the need to develop a common national strategy to protect the cultural values of divested churches. Sweden has more than a thousand years of Christian history. Christianity has had a more profound impact on our culture than any other idea or institution. Art, philosophy, morality, traditions, architecture, crafts and music are examples of areas that have been and are strongly colored by our ecclesiastical heritage. The impact has also been mutual. Conditions, conditions and culture in our country have meant that the history of Swedish Christianity has certain characteristics in relation to other Christian countries. However, the economically strained situation in many dioceses and parishes, combined with the increased threat of organised crime specializing in stealing ecclesiastical art treasures, has also resulted in reduced openness in many of the country's churches and thus reduced access to Christian cultural heritage. Unfortunately, the shortcomings in the preservation of church buildings are even greater when it comes to the maintenance of objects and the preservation of intellectual property. We see that in the present letter the government has clear views on the use of the church rooms, challenging the church's right to self-determination over its property portfolio and its pastoral considerations. It is important and true that the church is a strong and present actor in the local community, where many arrangements and collaborations with surrounding civil society and the public can be accommodated. This is already the case today. At the same time, it is important to consider that the church is a dedicated religious building that takes great account of Christian faith and tradition. The church also points out that the church room is a living cultural heritage and has an address that is true to solemnity and seriousness. So there is cause for concern about the government's reasoning on how the church room could be used. The government should keep a clear distance and respect the Swedish Church's right to self-determination when it comes to how the churches should be used and what activities should be carried out. We also want the government to give a clearer description of the protection situation for divested churches and how protection can be strengthened.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-852	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin with the fact that I naturally support both reservations of the Centre Party, but I choose to accept only reservation No 5. Mr President, I would like to Protecting the church's cultural heritage is important. I think we can all agree on this. The government also points out in the letter that ecclesiastical cultural heritage is a matter for the whole of society. This is a view that we share on the part of the Center Party. Church cultural heritage is a matter for the whole of society, because there are traces from both the country's and the country's history. The ecclesiastical cultural heritage is therefore also everyone's concern, regardless of whether you are a member of the Swedish Church or not. At the same time, the preservation of the church's cultural heritage must be reconciled with the needs of our time. The ecclesiastical cultural heritage then needs to be made more accessible to everyone. This can be done, inter alia, by presenting information on cultural heritage in an accessible way, for example through easy-to-read text or perhaps sign language. Digital development can also provide new opportunities to further make cultural heritage available. But it is also important that cultural heritage is nurtured, used and developed. A cultural heritage in the form of an old church hall that stands unused risk otherwise decaying. If, instead, more opportunities can be found to use and exploit the premises, without, of course, distorting the cultural heritage, we will also have more opportunity to preserve and retain more of the preserved buildings. Mr President, I would like to Churches in many places also constitute a local meeting place. But then it must also be possible to operate there for both members and others interested. To this end, one may need to adapt and modernize the church room, that is, the church. Of course, this needs to be done in a sustainable way for both people and the environment. It is therefore important to find simplified procedures for this without compromising the requirements of the law on the protection of cultural heritage. When the church room is also used for other purposes, such as concerts or other public activities, which are not directly related to the church's own activities, it increases access to the church's cultural heritage. We notice this not least in these times when we are approaching Christmas. Many churches are now filled with concerts on the Christmas theme. At the same time, when renting and using for activities other than the church's own, it is important that this should of course be done in agreement with not only the church responsible for the premises, but also other associations' and civil society activities that exist in the locality in question. I am thinking, for example, of community farm associations. This is particularly important in order not to compete with state aid already established and non-profit-making activities on the ground. Mr President, I would like to The church antiquarian compensation is a fundamental prerequisite for the preservation of the ecclesiastical cultural heritage. The Government's letter shows that the level of this compensation has not been increased since 2010. At the same time, the Swedish Church's responsibility for church cultural monuments has hardly diminished during this period. In several parts it is rather the opposite. In addition, there are many small congregations with declining population bases and thus fewer members who are finding it increasingly difficult to cope with their own conservation efforts. This too is a parameter to take into account. It is important to handle this in collaboration with the Church of Sweden in order to ensure long-term sustainable preservation and development of the church cultural heritage. Mr President, I would like to Church cultural heritage is a matter for both the Swedish Church and the state. It is therefore important for both parties to remain jointly responsible for this. A continued trustful collaboration between the state and the Swedish Church will then be very important, not to say absolutely decisive. Good collaboration helps to nurture the ecclesiastical cultural heritage and make it accessible to more people. It can be said in this context that the Church of Sweden, with its rooted knowledge and commitment throughout the country, should be allowed to be the driving force in this collaboration.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-863	Mr President, I would like to I agree with John Weinerhall's speech on the material part of the ecclesiastical cultural heritage. It was excellent, and so I agree with what he said. I also support reservation No 1. Instead, I would like to say something about the intangible cultural heritage. There is a chapter in the letter that is entitled Here it is the intangible cultural heritage, that is, values and the spiritual, most important for people's well-being, even if it is all connected. The curriculum for primary school states that we are building our Western society in Western humanism and Christian tradition. Christian tradition is important to us. It is part of community building such as health care, school, you name it. Everywhere there is the foundation on which we stand. The Swedish legislation is very much based on ten commandments of Gud, for example, you shall not kill. You should protect and venerate life in all its forms. You should not steal, i.e. respect the property and rights of others. You shall not testify falsely against your neighbor, which is to be trustworthy in thought, word, and deed. This is all about what our society is built on. These are good guidelines for a good society. It is this which is a Christian tradition and an ecclesiastical intellectual cultural heritage and is an important part of the role of ecclesiastical cultural heritage in society. I am fascinated by the fact that people gather in the church building as a sacred room. Here the material and the immaterial meet. I myself usually, when visiting Copenhagen, go to Vor Fruit Frue, the spring wife church, which is the cathedral in Copenhagen, and sit down for a while before Thorvaldsen's amazing statue of Kristus. It is the statue that Thorvaldsen with great accuracy and inspiration sculpted and ingot in his studio. For the plaster to dry in the studio, the door needed to be open. His assistant promised to take care of it. But for some reason the door came to close, and the high humidity in the room did not dry the plaster. As a result, the arms of their weight slipped downwards, and so did the head. The statue then got the form you can see in Copenhagen Cathedral and in lots of churches around Sweden and actually the whole world. Thorvaldsen was horrified and angry when he entered the studio and saw his statue in this condition. But after a while he calmed down. He took a few steps back, began to look at Jesus and seemed to look in his eyes at the head facing downwards. He seemed to see the open arms in his arms. Instead of a world-renowned Kristus, Jesus was present. Mr President, I would like to The church tradition should be stone-dead, given that it has been 2,000 years. Instead, it has become the world's largest religion, and in China alone it grows with over 10,000 people every day. Here in Parliament, a group of people gathers for worship every Wednesday morning. Since the 1880s, members of parliament have gathered in this way, and the group is now increasing in number. It is Parliament's oldest group with representatives from all parties, and everyone is welcome to a moment's contemplation and singing. We all have a common ground to stand on. The ecclesiastical cultural heritage permeates our entire society. I read only yesterday that Bo Strömstedt's old tramp organ has found its way back to Expressen's editorial office. There he would sit for a while and sing reading songs. Suddenly, Expressen's chief room became a sacred place. Of course, such sacred rooms can be made where you are. The trampoline cannot be played on, it is said, but I am convinced that it can be revived again even if it has slumbered a number of years in some archive. So I think it is also with our church tradition in Sweden. It may have been slumbering for a time in a secular archive, but again it will bloom and be involved in creating trust, security and community between people.
i-L9pAZFvaY1hahUjUnBaX9u	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection is in favour of the proposal that the Government's letter on the ecclesiastical cultural heritage be included in the documents and proposes that all reservations be rejected. Mr President, I would like to On 1 January 2000, a relationship was made between the Church of Sweden and the State. In other words, the church was separated from the state, and the church became independent. In connection with this relationship for change, the Swedish State granted the Church of Sweden the right to a certain compensation for culturally-historically justified costs in connection with the care and maintenance of church cultural monuments. This includes church buildings, church plots, church furnishings and cemeteries. This came to be called church antiquarian compensation. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we have about 3,400 churches and 3,300 cemeteries. 2 942 of these churches are today covered by the church antiquarian compensation. That is 87 percent of all churches of the Swedish Church. The Government's letter sets out how the church antiquarian compensation has been used during the period 2002-2017. The letter also deals with accessibility to church cultural monuments as well as knowledge and competence issues, collaboration between the Swedish Church and authorities in the field of cultural environment and the role of church cultural heritage in Swedish society. Most of us who live here in Sweden somehow have a connection to the church. Mr President, I would like to If I am to speak for myself, I can say that I have a very strong connection with a handful of churches. The church that has meant most to me is Fällfors church in Luleå diocese, my childhood church. It was across the road from our school, so we saw it every day. It was big, beautiful and pompous, I thought at the time. Now, with a different perspective, my adult perspective, I see it as a large beautiful wooden church with windows on two floors and high gable windows. The west facade is flanked by sided towers. The north is the highest. Between the towers is a small house of arms, and in the north there is a wide - built sacristia on two floors. The altar tablet inside the church depicts Jesus'entrance into Jerusalem, the crucifixion, and the resurrection. In that church I have spent seven school graduations from the time I attended part-time preschool until I finished grade 6. I have participated in many Lucia trains, Easter celebrations and Christmas endings in that church. I've been to baptisms, confirmations, weddings and many funerals. The church is with us in joy and sorrow and has a great significance for us personally but also for our society and for our cultural heritage. The churches reflect our history. They have a unique spread in time and space, and they are a constant in a changing landscape for 1,000 years. We see a social development that leads to a more polarised social climate, where it is more often talked about us and d about. The development is not based on given identities but on the fact that different actors use our past to demonstrate and consolidate the specific nature of different groups. The guiding idea is often that different cultural expressions belong only to, interest or can be understood by limited ethnic or cultural groups. As a counterforce to this, it is important to highlight the unifying force that exists in the common cultural heritage, not least in the church antiquarian heritage, which over the centuries has shaped and influenced the development of society. This common cultural heritage is everyone's and can interest everyone regardless of background or belief. It is therefore important that cultural heritage can be passed on to future generations. The church antiquarian compensation is of great importance for the care and preservation of the ecclesiastical cultural heritage. The state, together with the Church of Sweden, should continue to take responsibility for the preservation, use and development of the ecclesiastical cultural heritage. The conditions for the church antiquarian compensation should therefore, according to the Social Democrats and the Government and the Committee on Culture, be characterized by long-termness and predictability – and an arm's length distance. In its letter, the Government has assessed that the church antiquarian compensation has been allocated and used in accordance with the principles established in connection with the change in the relationship between the state and the Church of Sweden. For effective and legally secure handling, the Government believes that it is important that the Church of Sweden ensures that the process for compensation is preceded by a permit examination according to the Cultural Environment Act. The Government further assesses that the competence within the Church of Sweden in matters relating to the management of church cultural monuments has developed positively since the previous control station. Mr President, I would like to The church antiquarian compensation is important for the care of the ecclesiastical cultural heritage. The State and the Swedish Church should continue to take responsibility for the preservation, use and development of church heritage.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-884	Mr President, I would like to A building can be so much and mean many different things to us humans. Sometimes a building is just a structure with walls and a roof. But a building can also be someone's home or a place where you feel at home, a place where you can land and be yourself. A religious building can be a place where you get support and guidance to search for yourself. For many people, the religious community is a place for meaning and fellowship. There the thought can take height, and one can reflect on the great questions of life. Today we are debating the third control post for the church antiquarian compensation since the separation of the Swedish Church from the state. It is easy to get stuck in numbers, levels and details in maintenance plans. However, we must not forget that the reason why there is a broad consensus about a special compensation to the Swedish Church for the maintenance of the church population is that these buildings are more than roofs and walls. They have played an important role in people's lives in our country for a very long time. It has not always been about positive experiences of the kind I described at the beginning. Religious edicts have contributed to a great deal of shame and guilt for those who have not conformed to the Christian standard, a standard that has prevailed throughout our society and has permeated political decisions. It's about condemning homosexuality and sex outside of marriage and the shame of so-called illegitimate children, to name a few examples. Our diverse church history is, of course, far too extensive and complex to be accurately summed up in this debate. But all of this is our cultural heritage. It needs to be preserved and illustrated in order to understand how our society has developed and why it looks as it does today. For a very long time, for good and evil, the church has been a fixed point in people's lives and an institution that has permeated people's everyday lives regardless of belief. That is why, Mr President, the Church of Sweden has acquired a special position with its own contribution to maintain and maintain its church premises for future generations as well. They manage a significant cultural heritage. Interest in being in one of the parishes of the Church of Sweden is decreasing. Without state aid, the costs associated with the maintenance and renovation of the more than 2,900 churches currently included in the concept could not be borne. It is against this background that we in the Left Party see the need to strengthen the church antiquarian compensation. Since the previous control station, working methods both within the responsible authorities and within the dioceses and parishes have changed and refined. New structures have been created within the Church of Sweden, and knowledge of cultural environment issues has been raised and secured in many parts of the organization. The transition to a stock-based distribution instead of demand seems urgent. This, combined with a common handbook for dioceses and county boards, can hopefully even out the unfair differences between the regions that exist today. Mr President, I would like to From the Left side we see that the system for working with the church antiquarian compensation has become increasingly better but that resources have become more scarce. The shrinking congregations bear an increasing share of the costs if this development is allowed to continue. I regret that so few parties have responded to the needs of the Church of Sweden and its desire to preserve, develop and use cultural heritage to a greater extent. In practice, the non-listing means that compensation has been eroded since 2010. Labour costs increase when people want higher wages than in 2010. Material costs are also increasing. In the Left Party budget, therefore, there are 40 million more than in the government's proposal. We propose that the new level should therefore be 500 million. In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the church as an important cultural actor from two aspects. One is about the church as a meeting place for own cultural practice and public cultural events. In many localities, the church's choir, art exhibitions and concerts are an essential part of the available cultural offering. The second aspect is not so often highlighted. It is about the fact that efforts to preserve the ecclesiastical cultural heritage also contribute to the preservation of handicraft traditions and, to some extent, the development of new innovative approaches within the cultural craft sector. The church's demand for action creates a labour market and therefore also a demand for education in this area. I think it is important that we continue to do so. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by making it clear that the Left Party supports the committee's proposal for a decision, that is to say to add the letter to the file, but we have a specific opinion in the report.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-896	Mr President, I would like to Man has always sought the meaning of life. The countless churches throughout the country testify to our longing to understand and find answers to the great questions of existence: Does Gud exist? How Do You Find Happiness? Is it okay to end your life if you don't want to live anymore? We have the same questions today that we had 500 years ago. But those who are seeking to join the church today may not even be a member of the Swedish Church, but go in just to light a candle or sit on a church bench to get perspective on their existence. The church rooms with their thousand-year history are today both an expression of Christianity's essence and a place for the universal human, as Archbishop Antje Antje has put it. For centuries, the church has been the natural meeting place for people in a rural area. There they met family and friends and even their intended ones. On the church hill, business was sometimes done. When a new church was to be built, it was the locals who financed the building as a whole, and they also contributed labor. The local community was responsible for the continued maintenance and decoration of the church, as well as the priest's salary and residence. Throughout our country, the churches are there, conveying continuity and something universal that puts ourselves in a wider context. In times of anxiety and crisis, the church is a natural meeting place for us even today. I particularly remember the big Backabranden in Gothenburg when so many young people lost their lives 21 years ago. Many then went to the open church rooms to find comfort and fellowship. Mr President, I would like to With its presence throughout the country, the ecclesiastical heritage provides unique opportunities for meetings between people in time and space. Here you can also meet different artistic and architectural expressions. The ecclesiastical heritage has a variety of stories that link the past to the present. When the church was separated from the state in 2000, it was preceded by a decision of principle in the Riksdag in December 1995 which stated that the change of relationship should not lead to a deterioration of the conditions for the care and maintenance of cultural historical values within the church. Church buildings, church plots, church furnishings and cemeteries should be protected so that their cultural historical value is not diminished. In fact, there are almost 3 000 churches, thousands of other buildings on church plots and over 3 000 cemeteries. The preservation of church cultural monuments is a matter for the whole of society. It is therefore reasonable for a church antiquarian compensation to be provided by the state to the Swedish Church. In the agreement concluded between the State and the Swedish Church in 2000, so-called control stations for the church antiquarian compensation will occur every five years. 2019 is such a control post, and that is why today we are dealing with the Culture Committee's report on ecclesiastical culture in this House. The church antiquarian compensation is of great importance for the care and preservation of the ecclesiastical cultural heritage. The Government considers that the church antiquarian compensation has been allocated and used in accordance with the principles established in connection with the change of relationship between the state and the Swedish Church. All in all, church cultural monuments are well preserved. The scope of the Church of Sweden's responsibility for the ecclesiastical cultural heritage has remained unchanged since the change of relationship. Meanwhile, the Swedish Church has lost many of its members. However, there is strong local commitment and proactive work to meet these challenges. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to stress once again that the ecclesiastical cultural heritage is the wealth of all and its richness such that it has the potential to interest everyone, regardless of their background or their own beliefs. It will be maintained and nurtured, not only for us today, but also for future generations to understand their history. The committee shares the government's view that the state should continue to take responsibility, together with the Church of Sweden, for the preservation, use and development of the ecclesiastical cultural heritage. The conditions for the church antiquarian compensation should be characterised by long-term and predictability. I call for the proposal in the Culture Committee's report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-908	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that some afternoons the spirit is willing but the tongue tired. I strongly support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 4.
i-15b0e4abe521ec69-910	That concludes today's vote, and here is an announcement: I called the House for a vote of confidence on Friday. To compensate the House for this, I have decided to cancel tomorrow's vote.
