i-655963132ff88907-1	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating criminal matters. Of course, it is important to deal with crime. On the other hand, we should not delude ourselves into thinking that it is enough; it is far from it. To think this would be kind of like Henrik Rydström, who trains Sirius, just focusing on his backline, and he doesn't. Sirius leads at all Swedish, I will add. We must be offensive in the fight against crime and work preventively. I worked at the jail when I was studying in Uppsala. I worked in a department where there were no restrictions, and I had pretty good opportunities to sit down and talk to the inmates. It often turned out to be creative, sensitive and fun people that I met in my job but who had at the same time been guilty of terrible crimes that had hurt many and much. In conversation, similar stories often came up about a tangled childhood and a broken up childhood. Drugs had often put their claws in these people early in their lives. The statistics show that more than half of those entering the penitentiary have a baggage of abuse. It was not uncommon to encounter mental illness, low self - esteem and self - injury behavior. These people often had ruins of life from which it was difficult to crawl up. When I was in high school, we had an addict and a former criminal who came to talk to us. He told me about his life and what he had been through. Quite disproportionate of his time was spent explaining how he had conquered a woman's heart in a duel with Owe Thörnqvist. However, this is not what we took with us from the meeting, but it was this person who openly told us about his misappropriations in life. He wanted to show that we individuals, we youths, had a responsibility to choose a path. And so it is: The individual has a responsibility. But society also has a responsibility: clearing paths so that you can choose the right path. We have mentioned before in this House that we in the committee were on a fantastic journey to the United States where we met American police officers. Then I thought of that person who came to our classroom and told me his story. But it was on a different level – we were in the USA in the role of legislator. It was another society that told us its story and warned us not to go the same way. Police after police said: Don't choose our path! Keep the community together! Go for school! The police can't do this on their own. It was a clear message that strengthened me in my ideology as a social democrat. That is why we are not just taking the fight against crime with regard to the penalties in the Committee on Justice; we are taking it in the Social Affairs Committee, in the Education Committee and in municipalities and county councils. This is where we create the conditions for the sports leader, teacher and field assistant to do their part in preventing crime. But today we are discussing penalties, and that is a good thing. Parliament's reports rarely reach the top of the pocket. To get there, you have to have a good backside text, and the reports do not. However, if the report had had a background text, I think it would have been something like: a strong government and an impatient parliament. That is how I think the report can be summed up. The Social Democratic-led government has since 2014 submitted well over 100 proposals that have gone through the Riksdag. Where the Riksdag now urges the government to act, the government is already under way. This is all the way through the report that is on the table. I think it is excellent that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has announced in the government declaration that serious sexual exploitation should be introduced as a criminal offence. There is a proposal for an announcement. I think it is excellent that the Prime Minister has announced in his government declaration that the minimum penalty for rape should be increased. There is also a proposal for an announcement from the Riksdag on the same subject. These steps are being taken while Metoo has opened up important discussions and necessary changes in attitudes. Last week the government also announced that it will propose very strong legislation to Parliament to protect blue light personnel. I must say that the first time I heard about firemen having been thrown at them when they came to put out fires, I did not understand, but I was completely bothered. I think many with me have the same reaction to something like that. It is clear that we should ensure that it is a good protection and that we should have severe penalties for anyone who tries to prevent our firefighters, ambulances and policemen from doing good and being there for people in need. I often look at floorball – I'm from the floorball world capital Uppsala. When Storvreta plays there is one thing that upsets the team hugely and that makes the whole team rush in and draw a red line, and that's if you try to go after the goalie. I like that feeling when the whole team closes. That is exactly the support we are going to give to our blue-light staff, and we are doing so with the legislation that is now on the table. To conclude, I just have to say that there is a sharp proposal, and we also have a proposal for an announcement on the table. But I think there's a reason for some self-examination here in Parliament. Is that how we should use the announcements when there is a sharp proposal? This is exactly what Parliament wants, and now we are there. Yet you have to break down the open door. I usually watch badminton, too. We are very good at badminton also in Uppsala, through the Fyris spring. It's a great sport to watch, but there's a problem. In a competition there are six games, and the winner of the most has won the competition. But anyone who can count knows that if a team wins four games in a row, the excitement is over. It feels a bit like we're there today – a badminton game where it says 4-0. It's a pretty pointless game we're doing if we're going to discuss the Bluelight investigation or that you're going to come up with one, when it's actually right around the corner. There are some other similarities with badminton: You play with a featherball, and it feels a bit like making a chicken out of a feather to hit the big drum when it comes to announcements about things where sharp concrete proposals have been announced that we will soon have the opportunity to discuss more closely in the Riksdag. Finally, I would like to express my support for all the reservations expressed by the Social Democrats in this report, reservations 16, 33 and 41, and for our specific opinion.
i-655963132ff88907-15	Mr President, I would like to I will not be so sports-focused in my speech. You will excuse me, but I was going to use my minutes to talk about what legislation I want to see to ensure that we give victims in this country the redress they actually deserve. These are important issues. We see growing insecurity around our country. A lot of people in Sweden feel that the country you may have grown up in, which you have lived in and which you have spent many years in, has changed, that you no longer dare to go out and that you may look over your shoulder when you go to the store, when you go to work or for that matter when you are in school. It is usually popular in this speaker's chair to talk about statistics, and with statistics you can show a lot of different things. But you can never take away people's experiences. We are seeing a very serious development in this area, not least in relation to sex crimes. Exposure – the proportion of victims of sexual offences – has increased from 2 to almost 7 per cent in just five years. This is an enormous increase. At the same time, according to the Crime Prevention Council's Security Survey, Swedish women say that they are more insecure than ever before. Nearly one in ten young women in Sweden reported that during the year they had been subjected to a serious sexual offence, i.e. attempted or completed rape. And almost every other young woman – 44 percent – says that today they feel insecure outdoors at night in their own residential area. This is what Sweden looks like in 2019. There are, of course, several different explanations for this and several different components. For example, we see a police officer in Sweden who is severely undersized. Unfortunately, I would like to say that recruitment work is slow to reach the target of 10 000 more police workers. We still do not see a targeted wage bet for the hard-working policemen of the country. We still do not see any paid police training either. We are now also receiving reports that sexual crimes are not prioritised in the investigation work either. I think that is very serious. Few things are so important, I would say, in the police's investigative work that the sexual crimes are mostly directed at women. Mr President, I would like to There are also light points. When the government fails to take responsibility, others may step in. When I look at this report, it is very positive that I see that there is a majority in committee which, on 12 different occasions, chooses to take precedence and mandates the government to implement different types of legislation. This majority is slightly different on various issues. But I would like to thank all the parties who have made this possible. It is important and important that we push together to get sharper legislation in place and take on the responsibility that the government, which is now in its fifth year, has not managed to take. There are several things that can be highlighted. If I'm going to pick something, it's just the sexual crimes. Since autumn 2017, the Moderates have proposed that the minimum sentence for rape of the normal grade be tightened from two to three years in prison. The large number of rape cases in court relates precisely to normal rape. In fact, the sentence has not changed since the Criminal Code was introduced. Almost a year ago, this Parliament addressed an announcement to the government that the minimum punishment for rape should be tightened up in accordance with the Moderates' proposal. The government has still not returned to Parliament on this issue, which means that we are now raising the same issue again. Mr President, I would like to A year later, I can see that there is still no investigation. I don't think a government should act so slow on such an important issue. Unfortunately, this is not an isolated incident. We see this in the area by area, on point after point. We have the terror legislation where we made an agreement in 2015 but where everything has not yet been implemented. What has been presented has kept such a poor quality in very important parts that the government has had to withdraw it. And it is very unclear whether it can come into force at all. It's about the sexual crimes. It is also about the work against honour repression, where there is an investigation from August 2018 with a proposed entry into force on 1 January 2020. But in the January agreement it is very clear that it will be re-examined and enter into force only on 1 January 2022. At the same time, tens of thousands of boys and girls in this country tell us that they live under an atrocious oppression of honour – norms from the Middle Ages that do not belong in Sweden or in any other country for that matter. Mr President, I would like to I realise, of course, that it is convenient for a government to be able to point to an opposition and say: you only complain. You're never happy. It's all wrong. But it is actually the case that area by area, legislation after legislation is delayed. It's all pulled on a long bench. For this, the government deserves criticism. If the government does not deserve criticism for this, I do not know what criticism is deserved. It is precisely as I have described. In view of the vulnerability and insecurity experienced by an increasing number of people in our country, I hope that the government will take these issues more seriously in the future than has been done so far, because this is not everything. This is the core state; it is the core of prosperity. Nothing in life matters if you cannot feel safe and secure in your everyday life. We Moderates will continue to push the government ahead of us on these important issues. Of course, I support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 48.
i-655963132ff88907-31	Regarding the requests, we note with regard to the request in the previous speech that there is a fourth reservation supported by the Social Democrats, reservation 43. The question then arises as to whether the request should also relate to this reservation. I would also like to refer to a discussion that I had with the group leaders yesterday at a group leader meeting, in which we agreed to renew the informal agreement that exists between the parties that only one reservation per party and report should be requested in order not to have endless votes. If this or that information which I have presented here leads to any change in the three requests which I have heard so far, it is good to ask for the floor again and to speak from the speaker's seat.
i-XhMTRGraxZRky6fCJX4KWM	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the motion, because it was on the agenda. I support our reservation No 34 on participation in criminal organisations. We are debating here the criminal-law motion report which returns annually in Parliament and in which we parties can show what kind of policy we want in the field of criminal law. I, too, can note that when the Social Democrats make a speech, it takes about four minutes before they get into the substance of the report itself. The other minutes are about other things that do not explicitly concern our area of responsibility. This is a little symptomatic of the criminal policy debate when it comes to socialists – and also liberals – for that matter: you are very focused on other issues than precisely criminal policy. 中 More leisure centres are usually the usual description of the most effective measures in criminal policy by socialist parties. Then I think we have a little bit of a misunderstanding of the mandate we have in the Committee on Justice. Our mission, of course, is to produce satisfactory legislation that allows the judiciary to intervene against serious crime. As we see it, we are going to give the victims proper redress, which means that the contract between the state and the citizens is being fulfilled so that citizens have confidence in the rule of law. That is the substance of the matter and what we should be discussing. Gustaf Lantz from the Social Democrats says that we have had a very powerful government and that over a hundred proposals were delivered from the government during the last parliamentary term. This should, of course, be seen in the light of the fact that the opposition proposed at least as many announcements to the government during the previous parliamentary term. Many of the proposals that the government has delivered have been based on just announcements to the government, which the opposition has stood for. So we can rightly say that the Conservative opposition has pushed on issues and forced the government to produce the necessary legislation – which the government is then very proud of. For example, Morgan Johansson, our Minister of Justice, waltzed around during the entire electoral movement, namely increased punishment for gun crimes to two years in prison. This was something that we in the Swedish Democrats, alone in the opposition, pushed for during the previous parliamentary term. We did it for three and a half years. When Sweden then had record years after record years of shootings, the government delivers exactly what the Swedish Democrats have demanded: an increase in the penalty for gross gun crime to two years in prison, so that you can arrest these individuals. This was, as it were, the flagship of the Social Democrats in the criminal debate in the electoral movement, that it has taken that particular measure. If we had had the government power, we would have been able to take it much earlier and thus get more criminals at an earlier stage. This is the relationship between the allegedly powerful government and the so-called avid opposition in parliament. This report proposes 12 announcements, and we are told that the government has a work in progress and that the announcements are completely unnecessary. Then, like the previous speaker from the Moderates, I can point to one of the announcements that we have in the report, namely what concerns sexual crimes and increased penalties for rape of the normal grade. This was something that the opposition pushed for an announcement during the previous parliamentary term, when the government chose not to tighten the penalty for rape of the normal grade. When we adopted the consent law in the last parliamentary term, the red-green parties in this House chose not to adjust the penalty for rape of the standard grade. We addressed an announcement to the government about this, and it is an announcement that is back on the table because the government has not delivered. At the same time, of course, we in the opposition can say that perhaps it will be a bit hatish when we make announcements that the government partially adapts to. Therefore, there must be a review of the scale of penalties for sexual crimes in general. We must harmonise all the scales of penalties that are adjusted due to announcements or own initiatives by the government. Such an overall effort is required, and it is also reproduced as one of the announcements. Another important point I would like to make with regard to this particular report is the measurement of penalties for multiple crime – the so-called quantity discount for crime. The Swedish Democrats were one of the parties who in opposition during the previous parliamentary term exercised on this. We have now managed to capture a majority in the committee to partially implement exactly what the Swedish Democrats have asked for, that is to say, a clearer penalty for all crimes for which an individual is charged instead of the individual being prosecuted solely for the most serious crime while other crimes are being written off. This is important, among other things, in order for society to mark for a person who commits many crimes that it is serious to commit several crimes. Even before you are prosecuted, it should of course be seen in the penalty measure if you have committed many or few crimes, and this is exactly what we are doing with this announcement to the government. It is a clear indication of exactly what we want it to be, because the risk of allowing a red-green government to shape the conditions for an increase in the so-called quantity rebate is that it will be far too little and far too late. That is why we have chosen, together with the other parties in opposition, to address an announcement to the government, which clearly states that the entire penalty should be imposed for the three gravest crimes. I have not really managed to get into the reservation I have announced that I support, but it applies to participation in a criminal organisation. It is based on the same principle as is at issue in the general debate on participation in terrorist organisations. If we are to get to the people who sit high in the hierarchy of criminal networks, we must adopt new legislation that will enable the prosecution of those who participate in criminal organisations to be prosecuted. This may, for example, apply to Nazi organisations, communist organisations or other violent – or just criminal – organisations. It is about being able to break down these structures seriously. Even those who together plan and organize and then allow others to carry out the crimes should thus be able to be prosecuted for their participation in a criminal organisation. That is why we need a new criminal code, participation in a criminal organisation, and that is what I am calling for in this debate.
i-655963132ff88907-47	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that the Centre Party is of course behind all its reservations, but in order to save time, I choose to apply only for reservation 21. The security of our country is an important and crucial issue for society. It is a complex issue with many pieces of the puzzle that are connected. Over the past few weeks, we in this House have talked a lot about legal certainty, and today we are going to debate both criminal matters and victims' issues. One is connected to the other. Social developments on certain security issues have been very worrying in recent years. One such issue is threats and violence against blue light personnel. In recent years we have seen many terrible examples of violence against police officers, civil protection and health care personnel. These are unacceptable acts that must be stopped. It is a good thing that, as recently as Thursday, the government decided to put forward proposals for stricter legislation against blue-light personnel, but I must say that I am missing a great deal in the proposal. I find it remarkable that you choose to leave both the Coast Guard and the Customs Office completely out of the proposal; in my world you are employed by the Customs Agency as much blue light staff as you can only become. Sexual harassment, sexual abuse, sexual crime and rape are terrible acts. These are crimes that must have severe and immediate consequences. There is a need for more, tougher and sharper measures and new legislation. It is good that today, hopefully, we are receiving an announcement of a review of the scale of penalties for sexual offences, increased penalties for normal rape, increased penalties for sexual abuse and a new criminal report on aggravated sexual harassment. That is very welcome. Mr President, I would like to There is much in this report that we agree on, and I think it is good that the Parliament today looks like it is making twelve announcements to the government about tougher action against heinous crime. But there are also issues where we disagree, and I intend to devote my remaining time to an issue that is very important for the Center Party. It was with despair, sadness and pure anger that earlier this spring I took part in the Gothenburg Post's review of threats and harassment against our farmers. The survey showed a series of terrible examples of what our farmers are allowed to endure and of what their children and families are subjected to. Today the issue has been raised again. In the coming weeks, cows will be arranged on farms around southern Sweden. This is a tradition to celebrate the arrival of spring, an opportunity for families with children to see where the food we eat comes from and a way for the country's farmers to showcase their fantastic activities. We have been able to read about, among other things, a dairy farmer in Blekinge who has experienced this at close range. For his part, it is about activists who have threatened that they – I apologise, Mr President – should cause hell and a little bit more. We have also been able to read about influencers comparing dairy farmers with Josef Fritzl. It's serious now. That's enough. We need to start taking threats and harassment against the country's farmers seriously. When as many as were fourth farmers are concerned about the threat and harassment of extreme animal rights activists, the situation is extremely serious. For the Center Party, this is not just an industry problem – it is a democracy problem. We must never accept non-democratic methods for political purposes. Action is needed to increase the security of rural areas, not least for our farmers. The Center Party wants to take decisive action in this area. Among other things, it is about stopping funds for violent organisations, reviewing the law on trespassing and home peace crimes and on a new code of conduct and criminal harassment in this area. Strong measures are needed to increase the security of our farmers and farmers, who are so important for us to be able to cope with food security and achieve the objectives of our food strategy. The Center Party will continue to act as a blowtorch so that threats and violence in the name of animal rights will end once and for all.
i-655963132ff88907-60	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree with what Jonny Cato finally came to in his speech on threats and violence against farmers and our farmers. In this area, there are two reservations in the report: one that the Swedish Democrats support and one that the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, I believe, jointly support. It may be that the Swedish Democrats' reservation stands as the main proposal against rejection. The reservation of the Swedish democrats addresses precisely this with threats and violence against farmers, which we consider to be very serious. In the reservation, we propose penalties for this type of crime so that they are given higher priority by the police and also provide a clearer consequence for those who engage in this type of crime, where law-abiding people who work hard are subjected to an organised crime. This is something that society must take more seriously than is the case today. My question to Jonny Cato Hansson is: When we stand in the Chamber and possibly have the Swedish Democrats' reservation as the main proposal against rejection, will the Center Party then show support with all the strength that Jonny Cato Hansson shows in the pulpit and all the commitment that Jonny Cato Hansson shows to the farmers? Will you then show support for Sweden's farmers and support the Swedish Democrats' reservation to tighten the penalties for those who commit these serious crimes against Sweden's farmers?
i-655963132ff88907-63	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party will follow the practice and vote for our proposal and reservation, and no matter which is not enough for the votes of the Swedish Democrats, Christian Democrats and the Center Party together. What I find a little distressing is that Adam Marttinen chooses to direct the questions and aggression against me and against the Center Party, which actually shares your opinion on this issue and which has a reservation. It would be far more relevant to put the question to the other parties in here, who do not have any proposals in this House today on stricter penalties and stricter measures against animal-law-related crime. I think that in the whole security debate at the moment we are putting a great deal of pressure on each other, although we are in agreement. There are sometimes rather small differences. But when we actually disagree between different parties, it is they who should get questions– not we who actually want to go very far on these issues.
i-655963132ff88907-66	Mr President, I would like to The reason I chose to take a line against the Center Party in this debate is not so strange. We agreed very much in the election movement that we needed a new government for Sweden – a government that really prioritises our responsibility. And what does the Center Party do after the election? Well, you choose a Socialist Minister of Justice, and you choose to abstain in favour of a Social Democratic budget with appropriations for our area of responsibility. It's not really weird that I chose to take a line against the Center Party at this point. The comfort that we can give to Sweden's farmers on behalf of the Center Party is that they can get a practice. Punishments are not prepared to go all the way into the tile for the Center Party to mark against these crimes, but what Sweden's farmers should receive as comfort from the Center Party is that they follow the practice. They can feel a great deal of security about that. When they are exposed to stunnings in the middle of the night or have murder threats sprayed on their cars, we can at least know that the Center Party has a practice. It feels great that the Center Party delivers so much. The Center Party is more interested in its own image building than in supporting the honest citizens of the country. If you really want to support them, you do what you need to do to bring about a change, then you go all the way out. Then you do not stand in Parliament and care more about your own image than about supporting the reservations that really make a difference for Sweden's farmers. There the Center Party clearly has a homework to do.
i-655963132ff88907-69	Mr President, I would like to If it is so important that we agree, the Swedish Democrats can vote for the Center Party's reservation. I think, once again, that the criticism is misdirected. There is no one who can seriously question where the Center Party stands on these issues. This is not about image building, it is about these being important issues for rural areas. Then comes what is now becoming classic about the formation of government, the budget and so on. I can only say that the government's spring budget contains more investment in the judiciary than the budget delivered by the M-KD and supported by the Swedish Democrats.
i-655963132ff88907-72	Mr President, I would like to We are at a time when increased punishment seems to be the solution to society's problems. The Minister of Justice usually boasts of how many sentences he has raised. The Moderates take every opportunity to recriminalise and to raise the penalties for the dinghy and the dinghy. Sossar and Moderates continue to steam. The penalty is to be removed, and smaller crimes are to be counted together and lead to incredibly long prison sentences. At the same time, both prisons and prisons are full. You're supposed to lock more people up, and they're supposed to sit for a really long time. Locking a person up for a year costs 1 million. New institutions will have to be built. Yesterday the spring budget was presented, and there was no extra money there. Congratulations on a policy with an impact assessment at the same level as my three-year-old when he refuses to put on his mittens on a cold April morning because the sun shone yesterday. But I agree with one thing: all crimes should be taken seriously. I therefore wonder why there is so much dwindling with the widespread crime of finance and economy. Out of 100 companies, 7 are set up solely for criminal purposes. The company is the new crowbar, and it is far too easy, through public procurements, to trick municipalities and county councils into huge sums of money and then just run away with the money. The bourgeois policy with relief in terms of company accounting data favours crime. Even auditing does not consider bourgeois parties to have, and it has even removed the audit obligation for smaller companies. Once again, congratulations – now a new criminal company is starting! Some others who live and thrive in a policy that wades with criminals are the banks. It is planned, taxed and hidden away. At the same time, the state must always be ready to rescue a bank from closure. Recently, there have been several revelations about tax evasion and money laundering linked to Danske Bank, Nordea and SEB. Before that, it was revelations in the form of Panama Papers, Lux Leaks and Swiss Leaks that have shown that the problems are extensive even in Sweden. We see high-income people hiding money, companies that plan their taxes and audit firms and banks that help. Now it has also become clear that Swedbank may have been used for extensive and systematic money laundering for nearly a decade. A total of at least SEK 40 billion is estimated to have been channelled between suspicious accounts in Swedbank and Danske Bank in the Baltics. Mr President, I would like to Internationally, there is a debate on the role of banks in aggressive tax planning. Banks, audit firms, tax lawyers and consultants earn a lot of money from providing advice and services that lead to tax evasion as well as aggressive tax planning. The banks are not afraid of cheating and tax planning, because the punishment is not severe enough. Then let me suggest a solution that feels: we raise the penalty – economically. Therefore, banks that commit crimes, such as tax planning, should pay really large fines. Fines shall be based on income. If you have a lot of assets, it'll be a fat fine. In 2017, the United Kingdom introduced provisions on asset-based fines for the most serious cases of tax evasion from the country. The fines start from what is the lowest of 10 percent of the value of the assets and 10 times the lack of tax revenue. We believe that Sweden should introduce a similar system to the UK with asset-based fines. It's like the only reasonable thing. If the banks don't behave, they can stop being banks. It's over with the dwindling of banks and tax evasion. The mastery of the big banks is over. We're done using companies to suck tax money out of welfare. It is time for control, audit and large fines for those who are not doing well. The penalty must be felt. I'm in favour of reservation 50.
i-655963132ff88907-83	Mr President, I would like to Precautionary efforts are, of course, important. Mr Lantz mentioned this in his speech. I could stand here and line up many different initiatives, proposals and measures of the Christian Democrats, not least in terms of supporting the family and the role of the parents in providing a safe start for the children and in order for us to have a safer society. I could talk about civil society's excellent efforts, and when it comes to floorball also of course about Mullsjö floorball club's fantastic work not only on the floorball field but also as an important player in the local community. However, this debate is about the criminal justice report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Let me first stress one of the aims of the punishment, which for us Christian Democrats is of great importance, namely to contribute to redress for the victim. The penalties shall be proportionate to the offences committed. We believe that for too long other perspectives have dominated the debate on criminal policy. Often criminal law has been on the side of the perpetrator. We want to change that. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats support the announcements contained in the report. Today there are twelve in number. The Committee on Justice is diligent with its announcements, and I would like to thank my colleagues in the committee for their good cooperation. In committee, we often find a majority in favour of good policy. That's good, because this government really needs fire. The announcements range from increased penalties for sexual offences to burglaries and penalties for people linked to criminal networks and gangs. These are important measures to tackle the growing crime. Several of the announcements we are discussing today are partial repetitions of such a decision already taken by the Riksdag. We're bringing them up again because the government hasn't acted. Other things are new, because new problems have been raised and the government is faced with these problems. Mr President, I would like to Let me take a few examples. Last year, the government beat its chest when it raised the maximum sentence for aggravated rape. But the punishment does not hit the majority, 85%, of the rapes that are being committed. These are not considered crude, but are in criminal terms normal. There, the scale of punishment stands still, while the number of victims is increasing strongly and more and more people do not even claim to be safe in their own neighbourhood. The Christian Democrats want to see increased penalties for all rapes and therefore support the Riksdag's announcement. It is a good thing that the whole committee has supported this. Now it's up to the government to deliver. My question to the Social Democrats in this debate is: when can we expect a proposal at Parliament's table? Mr President, I would like to When we discussed the criminal justice report last year, the Parliament announced that penalties for violence against bluelight personnel should be developed, but also that what we call vital social functions should be protected. Anyone who breaks up a social office or fires a school goes to the whole community and needs to be punished accordingly. We also believe that hospital staff must be protected. The other week, the government hit the big drum. Three ministers, including the Prime Minister, presented the proposals of the Bluelight investigation. There is a lack of a sharpening of normal-grade fractures. It does not include customs personnel or the Coast Guard. It requires that it is part of an ongoing call or law enforcement activity. Important buildings, such as social offices, are not protected. Nor are those nurses and doctors who face an increasing threat protected. The fact that we're going to have to keep the government in front of us here is strange. Mr President, I would like to Another clear example of when criminal law overrides the victim's perspective is the amount rebate. We Christian Democrats believe that it should be abolished in its present form and that the offender should take full punishment for his first three crimes. How does it help a victim to commit an even worse act against someone else? In addition, the abolition of a quantity discount would mean safer streets and squares, as serial offenders would be in prison longer. In this way, we will not only help victims but also make fewer victims of crime. Crimes linked to criminal settlements, the transfer of drugs and the abuse of justice are all aimed at serious organised crime. It has to be stopped. Criminal control over certain vulnerable areas must be broken. It is therefore positive that the work of the committee works well when the government does not. The Riksdag must constantly demand that the Government act in order for something to happen. The 73-point programme of the January parties is thin when it comes to law enforcement, despite the fact that law and order measures are what voters want most. The ability to prevent, combat and prosecute crime is one of the core areas of the state. Nevertheless, every time something new happens, the government acts dizzy. That's not good enough. Mr President, I would like to I would like to highlight two reservations supported by the Christian Democrats. One is animal activism, as Jonny Cato Hansson described. I read headlines in the paper that cow release is cancelled because farmers are threatened by animal rights activists. That is totally unacceptable. I would like to call for the approval of another reservation, namely reservation 27 on the strengthening of criminal law protection for hunters, which highlights a related problem. We believe that attacks on hunters engaged in hunting and protection should lead to more severe penalties because these hunters carry out an important social mission. There is also a need for targeted police work with special intervention teams focusing on this type of ideologically motivated crime. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 27.
i-655963132ff88907-98	Mr President, I would like to It's an intense deba t this. We have dealt with about 180 claims to tighten the penalties. There is a will among us elected representatives to make sure that Sweden becomes an even more amazing country to live in and that crime will disappear. The criminal law we have today is based on slightly different theories. It is based on absolute theory, pure retribution, or on more relative criminal law theories that can be either general preventive or individual preventive. The first means that people should refrain from committing crimes by punishing them. One such example is speed limits. They have punished speeding so that everyone knows that anyone who drives too fast can get there. Then, in relation to the scale of the penalty, can people choose to take a risk; should they be discovered or not? There are speed cameras and things like that, you know. Perhaps there is someone in this Chamber who has been caught for speeding. What do I know? Actually, I did. Should we have draconian penalties on speeding and draw to life because it would be perceived as perhaps not entirely proportional, but it would definitely lower the speeds on our roads. So we have a mix of these different principles on how to measure and punish. Several of them have been skilfully touched by my fellow debaters here before. Punishment scales can be said to be more absolute. We say that a certain crime is worth some punishment. Several have argued adeptly that sexual crimes are so disgusting acts that there is support for the ethically higher penalty value. But the penalties themselves may be put more out of a general preventive purpose. As far as sanctions are concerned, we still work a little more on individual prevention. After all, we make a distinction between people who commit crimes for the first and second time compared to when they start to come up in the scales of punishment, although we think it is inadequate and should be seen as even more serious. We must not forget that we have had debates in the past that have been absolutely crucial to the development of security in society. It is about what we talked about the other week: young offenders. The aim of criminal policy is, of course, that the first crime should be the last crime. People should understand that something happens if they commit a crime. That's where we have big problems, I say. However, I may refer to that debate. In particular, social policy measures or psychiatry, school or drug treatment are crucial to reducing crime. A lot of people who commit crimes are all banana. They're all broken. We can tighten the penalties as much as we can. It will never help them. It can also be people who commit crimes that have completely distorted cultural patterns – or what to call it. It's about crimes in the name of honour culture through violence and, at worst, murder. It is people who have a completely damaged perception of reality. Mr President, I would like to It is important to highlight an announcement in the Juu report11. It's about the quantity discount. We Liberals have been talking about this for a long time. I assume that the government will take this seriously, just like the other announcements, and will come back again. It is a totally unreasonable system that you should get so much discount for committing crimes. Any prosecutor or police officer can tell you what a problem it is, in addition to the fact that people may not get the increase in penalty value that exists. It is about people who find it difficult to absorb the signals of society's criminal law and commit crimes of crime, again and again. It is often people who need a longer lock-in, not least for their own rehabilitation. At the same time, however, people are protected. In this way, punishments have a clear role to play in protecting society. If people get good rehabilitation in prison care, you can after a long time come out as a better person. Above all, you don't commit any crimes in the meantime. The issue of strengthening criminal law protection for bluelight personnel has been raised. It has also been mentioned that the government presented its thoughts on the subject. Liberals would like to point out that this is not enough. It should be a stricter minimum penalty for violence against officials. We would like to see the violation compensation for police officers under attack strengthened. We believe in broader legislation so that violence against emergency service personnel and the crimes against health care personnel are also included. It looks pretty serious in many places. When you get to the hospital, clean gang arrangements go into the emergency room. And we wonder why so few people want to be nurses. This is a reason. Liberals also have reservations about violations of peace and illegal persecution. One tip for my colleagues is that we can actually make a law. That's why we're here. However, we have the order of business that we are waiting for the government to come back. Illegal persecution was a law that we largely prepared and implemented in Parliament. Liberals brought it up. There was a broad consensus, and we implemented legislation that involved the criminalisation of so-called stalking. What I'm talking about is the subtle, low-intensity but ever-present terror that people seem to wage against each other. We see that there are conditions for reviewing and strengthening that legislation. This applies to the violation of peace as a unit of its own, but also to the question of illegal persecution. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude my speech by highlighting the European perspective on this. We are facing an election to the European Parliament. In this House there have been positions movements in the near future, including those of the Social Democrats. The Prime Minister has been out saying that it would be good to have a common European prosecutor's office. The Moderates have moved forward. And the Christian Democrats have moved forward. That's good. However, the areas on which the Joint European Prosecutor is to work are severely limited. There are still areas in which serious organised crime, which operates without frontiers, must be met by a cross-border fight against crime. That is where the European level is important. We therefore call for the approval of reservation 39, which highlights environmental crime, money laundering, tax offences and others. You have no idea how much VAT is being lost in the European system because of gross criminals who live on this alone. There I can admit that the Left Party has a point in the fact that it is punitive measures that we should look at. Here the general prevention, together with a real detection risk, will have a deterrent effect, so that people ignore that activity, which is today very profitable. Mr President, I would like to For time winning, the Liberals are therefore in favour of reservation 39 only.
i-655963132ff88907-116	Mr President, I would like to I want for time winning adjust previous claims to apply only reservation 43.
i-655963132ff88907-117	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling, on behalf of the Social Democrats, for the approval of reservation 34. I have a background as a preschool teacher. From that work, I have brought with me experiences that have been useful to me in my political mission. The latter, in turn, has been of benefit to me in my work as a preschool teacher. Even in preschool and school, it is often, but not always, obvious which children and young people will have the trouble on their journey through life. Different backgrounds, economic and social conditions and more play a crucial role in how life develops for us. Early on, it can be seen which children need that little extra to travel well through life. Early action then plays a crucial role in preventing them from falling into crime and violence. The feeling of not being enough for those who need it most when you have a large group of children to be responsible for is something I carry with me from my pre-colleague life. Mr President, I would like to Resources for preschool and school are therefore important to compensate for the children's different circumstances. It is about good pupil health, good health care as well as everyone's right and opportunity to work and self-support. Therefore, it is important to strengthen the general state grants to municipalities and county councils during the term of office that the government has now presented in the spring budget. Inequality is important to combat for the sake of the individual, but also for the sake of society as a whole. For inequality seriously harms ourselves, our children and the society in which we live. Despite the fact that violent crime and other crimes can have their roots in different social and class structures, crime and violent crime exist throughout society and in all social classes. It is therefore important that the message from society is clear. Crime is to be fought with a strong judiciary and a strong society that stays together. This is a priority for the government, and major efforts have therefore been made and will be made in the future – all to increase the security of ordinary people, no matter where we live our lives. Mr President, I would like to The number of reported sex offences is increasing, and one in four women reports that they have been exposed to crimes in a close relationship at some point in their lives. Men's violence against women continues to be a major problem despite major efforts. It is also important to see and combat violence in close relationships, regardless of gender. Men's violence against women is the ultimate expression of inequality, and the fight against these crimes is about influencing boys' and men's attitudes through action throughout society. The judiciary must also give priority to sexual crimes and crimes in close relationships. More perpetrators will be prosecuted and punished. If men's violence against women is to stop, it is men who must change. The new Sex Crimes Act, which came into force last year, has so far resulted in more crimes considered rape and more severe penalties than in the past. The Consent Act contributes to the creation of a culture, a culture of consent, which indicates that sex that does not occur voluntarily is always illegal. The government has made several other important decisions in order to reduce sexual crimes and violence in close relationships. Since 2017, a strategy has been implemented, and resources have been transferred to implement it. The minimum penalty for gross rape has been increased and the funding for women's shelters has increased sharply. Mr President, I would like to Many girls and women in Sweden are subjected to oppression. They must not be as they please, dress as they please, socialize with whom they want or love whom they want. It is a form of oppression that manifests itself in persecution, violence and genital mutilation. It's about girls who are denied their own choices of life. All this oppression and violence with honorary motives as a background and explanation should not be subjected to any girl or woman, and this should be fought with even greater force. The awareness of these crimes has increased and the work against repression has been strengthened in the legal system and in society as a whole. Mr President, I would like to In this context, let me say that it is with surprise that I take note of the move that has been made today by the Moderates with regard to honour-related violence and repression. No one can doubt the Prime Minister's words or the attitude of the Social Democrats on this important issue. The issue of honour violence and all the girls and women involved is far too important to be the subject of political tactising to new minimum levels. This is an issue on which there is a broad consensus in the Riksdag on the need for increased protection and preventive work against honour violence and repression, as well as increased criminal responsibility for the perpetrators who do this or who fail to intervene. Together with the Centre Party and the Liberals, the government has established a direction for the fight against honour crimes. For those parties that have chosen to stand on the right side of history, work is being done urgently to bring new legislation into place as soon as possible. It is unfortunate that the Moderates now choose to do a job in this way on an issue on which there is, as has been said, a great deal of agreement in the Committee on Justice and the Riksdag. Mr President, I would like to The effectiveness of support for victims of violent crime and repression is often dependent on the interrelationship of many different sections of society. There are various actions over time, ranging from broad preventive work to help and support in emergency situations as well as to interventions and support afterwards, sometimes for a long time. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the fight against crime must work throughout society, where we fight both crime and the causes of crime. The best law enforcement in the long term is to build a society where the social divides are small, where everyone has the right to work, where power is shared between women and men and where children and young people have safe growing conditions. In this way welfare policy and criminal policy are linked in a Sweden that holds together in the Swedish model.
i-655963132ff88907-132	Mr President, I would like to In 2018, 13 400 assault offences were reported against a woman where the offender and the victim were in close relation to the other. On average, this is 257 assault offences per week or 36 a day. Men's violence against women is a social problem. One of the measures that is usually relevant in such cases is a restraining order. In 2018, penalties for violations of a contact ban were tightened with electronic surveillance. A corresponding penalty was not imposed for a restraining order, but for electronic surveillance. It is therefore welcome that a majority in the Committee on Justice now wants to tighten up this crime as well. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. At the same time, there are areas in Sweden where gender equality is not at all very large. It's about areas where girls can't go out, can't decide over their own body or can't marry whoever they want. No one knows exactly how great the oppression of honour is or how it has developed in recent years. Two years ago, the National Board of Health and Welfare was tasked with identifying the extent of honorary violence. Two years later, they announce that this cannot be measured. However, there are indications. In a recent report, the researchers conclude that the degree of control and limitations seems to be increasing. Last year, a survey conducted among ninth graders in the country's three largest cities showed that between 7 and 20 percent of young people live with honor-related norms and oppression. In 2014, a government investigation estimated that 100,000 boys and girls under 25 live under honor. Lifting problems with culture of honour has for several years in the public debate been associated with being called racist, xenophobic and fishing in cloudy waters. For this situation, the left parties in particular have a special responsibility. For example, out of fear of saying as it is, the Left Party ran a campaign picture of three young girls who apparently do not come close to honorary culture, and they wrote: School, play and joy – not marriage. Does anyone think it is these three women who are going to risk children's and forced marriages? It is this type of anxiety that has caused the women and girls of the suburbs to be betrayed by Swedish feminism. Gender equality in Sweden should benefit all the country's girls. Then you cannot look between your fingers when a particular group is denied its basic rights just because they are women. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have the most comprehensive reform package to combat the culture of honour. Here are 15 suggestions from us to push back the culture of honour, which is beginning to take root in parts of the country. We want honor crimes to be both their own crime classification and a penalty basis. As early as last year, the Swedish parliament announced to the government that it should turn honour crimes into its own offence. The last term of office presented an investigation with a proposal that honorary motives should be a punitive basis and that the rules should enter into force on 1 January 2020. Now the government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, says in its majority text that the legislation will be in place only in 2022. It is difficult to understand why the government is delaying for two years in getting such a necessary piece of legislation in place. We want to criminalize moral police. It shall be criminal to induce a person to comply with rules or instructions aimed at upholding the honour of a particular person or group by force or undue pressure. We also want to identify the existence of self-proclaimed moral police officers. We want an opportunity to ban moral police in public places through a ban on access. We want to increase knowledge of honour-related violence by introducing specialised police and prosecutors to support the handling of honour crimes. We want the legislation to be clarified so that the police are given the opportunity to take care of young people in an honorary context to protect them and ensure that the further investigation is not made more difficult. We want notifications to guardians when a child has been questioned to be postponed or completely avoided in cases where it is detrimental to the child. We also want in some cases to be able to hold interviews with children under the age of 15 without the guardian's consent. It must also be made easier to prevent someone from being taken out of the country involuntarily for forced marriages abroad. We therefore want to review the possibility of introducing a forced marriage unit similar to Forced Marriage Unit in the UK. In addition, in the United Kingdom courts may issue injunctions or prohibitions for the protection of those who are at risk of being married away under coercion. This may mean, for example, that an individual may not be taken abroad or that a abducted individual should be brought back. Those who violate an injunction shall receive different types of sanctions, such as fines or prison sentences. We want a similar possibility to be introduced here in Sweden. We want an opportunity for appropriate authorities to withdraw and take care of passports or prevent the issue of passports when it is suspected that guardians or other close relatives intend to take a child out of the country in order to force it to marry against its will. We want the scale of penalties for crimes related to child marriage to be reviewed. We also believe that the penalty for forced marriage and misleading marriage should be tightened up. We want to criminalise conspiracy, preparation and attempts at misleading forced marriage. Finally, we want to introduce criminal liability for guardians of genital mutilation. Genital mutilation of girls does not belong in Sweden – nor anywhere else in the world for that matter. Mr President, I would like to At the S-Congress Löfven that the Social Democrats will be the leading force in Sweden in the work against honour violence. Nevertheless, he postpones clear and well-examined legislation for two years. Which party is the leading force against honour violence, I think speaks for itself. The Moderates stand up for all of Sweden's women, whether they live in Vellinge or Rosengård. Cultural-relativist feminism must be brought to an end. Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Crime Prevention Council is launching a new research project that looks at the link between crime and descent. The last time such a study was carried out was in 2005. It showed that in the group of foreign-born men it is five times more common to be suspected of sex offences than in the group of natives who have two parents who are also Swedish-born. For a long time, the Moderates have been in favour of a new such investigation. We see a large increase in sexual crimes. To overcome the problem, we need to look at all aspects and all the facts. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates are of course behind all their reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 7.
i-655963132ff88907-147	Mr President, I would like to Instead of protecting victims, Sweden has for a long time put in a system to feel sorry for criminals. Crime is explained in terms of poverty and exclusion. The criminal justice system is characterised by low penalties, penalties and conditional release. Even if prosecutors insist on expulsion, convicted offenders often escape expulsion on the grounds that they have a strong connection with Sweden or for humanitarian reasons. It is not the criminals who should be protected, it is the criminals who are the victims of crime. A decent society must not allow this to happen. Unfortunately, however, that is exactly what is happening in Sweden today, and that is something that we Swedish democrats will never accept. Anyone who accepts this not only betrays the victim and its relatives, but also all those people who are at risk of becoming the next victim. Let me be clear. The fact that victims in the streets and squares are in danger of facing the hit and fired shortly after the act of violence has been committed is totally unacceptable. The fact that we as politicians cannot jointly formulate a clear answer to how to avoid this is completely incomprehensible. Not to side with the victims is to put the care of criminals at the heart of the concept of justice. That is completely wrong, and the Swedish Democrats will never be in favour of this. Weaknesses in the legal system are not just about violent crimes. It's about everything from bike theft, fraud and ID-jacking to murder. The person who has been the victim of burglary in his home knows that it is a huge violation of the personal sphere. A closed investigation on the grounds that crime cannot be justified reinforces the sense of insecurity, reinforces the feeling of mistrust and, in the long term, undermines confidence in the whole legal system. In order for victims to feel that they are getting some form of redress and not to damage confidence in the legal system, it is therefore important that the compensation awarded is actually paid to the victim. The Swedish Democrats have long been pushing the issue of reforming the system of damages and payment of damages. The relatively low levels of compensation need to be increased, at least in the case of offences against persons, and the payment system for victims needs to be reviewed. As things stand today, it is the victim himself who has to spend time and effort in order to have his compensation paid. Once the judgment has become final, the victim can actively inform the Swedish Enforcement Authority that they want help in obtaining the damages. But since the offender often has no means to pay, there is also nothing to collect. At this point, the victim may turn to his insurance company. If it does not help, the next step is to submit an application to the Victims' Agency. It is a painful process and an insult to the victims who have had their lives destroyed. As obvious as it is that the state takes responsibility for the enforcement of penalties, it should, of course, be that the state takes responsibility for the payment of damages. Then it is up to the state to recover the blame from the offender. Victims must always be guaranteed their compensation. Other important measures aimed at protecting victims of crime and their right to a dignified life are the strengthening of penalties for non-compliance with the prohibition of contact and the creation of a victim portal for those affected by fraud and cybercrime. Through the support of the Swedish Democrats, we have achieved two announcements on this. Victims of crime may come in different forms. Everyone has a life story. But for those born into families who, in the name of religion, justify criminal acts, there are no levels of risk. There's no choice. They are sentenced to punishment as soon as they are believed to have done something wrong according to the family. Today, some 40,000 girls are married off against their will every day. In Sweden we unfortunately lack a good map of honour-related coercion and violence. A few years ago, however, a survey was made that indicated that some 70 000 young people aged 16 to 25 have limitations in partner elections. It was estimated that up to 8,500 were in danger of being married away. In 2014, legislation was introduced to prevent forced marriages. However, so far few have been convicted of the crime, despite the fact that several preliminary investigations have been initiated. By tightening up legislation, police and other authorities at an early stage could prevent planned forced marriages from being carried out. It is today difficult for Sweden to protect those who enter forced marriages abroad under foreign law. Honorary oppression is distinguished by the fact that it is often an entire family that uses pressure and threats to an individual. Denmark already introduced a 24-year rule in 2002. This means that a person living in Denmark must have reached the age of 24 before being able to marry a person outside the EU, who is then given the right to move to Denmark and receive a residence permit. The reason for the rule is quite simple. It is more difficult to force a 24-year-old into a marriage that has had time to educate itself, get a job and perhaps even move away from home compared to an 18-year-old who is still governed by his family's rules. Experience from Denmark shows that the rule has had a rapid effect. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that a 24-year rule should also be introduced in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats also want marriages already entered into through threats, coercion or psychological abuse to be annulled. In the case of serious crimes, the penalty for foreign nationals must also be combined with expulsion. This, Mr President, is basically about the view of morality and justice. If we are serious about everyone being given the same chances of life, then we as politicians must mark stone hard against those who see it as their right to limit the chances of life of others. We must dare to stand up for those who do not have the strength or the courage to speak for themselves. That is what a human policy really looks like. We in the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations, but I only ask for the approval of reservation 41.
i-655963132ff88907-163	Mr President, I would like to Like the other parties today, we should also save some time. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but I am only in favour of reservation 33. Security is a major societal challenge. It finds itself in expressions against our democracy, against our society. But it also affects individuals in our country. Victim issues are one of the most important issues in the area of security. These are issues that we need to highlight much more in the political debate. The Center Party wants the victim perspective to be strengthened. Confidence in the rule of law and the opportunity for rehabilitation and the ability to move on is of the utmost importance for people in Sweden to feel that the justice system is there when they need it most. A fundamental principle is that crime victims should have the right and the opportunity to obtain better information from the rule of law. It may sound quite simple, but it is a very important measure. The Center Party also wants to review how victims of serious crime, and relatives of victims of violence, can receive support when a perpetrator is granted leave or released. Another important measure concerns the issue that has been raised here a couple of times about damages. Here we really need to make new legislative changes so that compensation is actually paid to victims. Mr President, I would like to A particularly important and vulnerable group are our children. According to Save the Children, some 200,000 children live in Sweden with violence as part of their everyday lives, 200,000 children. These children are also at risk of being subjected to both violence and sexual abuse themselves. Reporting on child abuse is on the increase, and the number of the dark is also very large. The Center Party wants those who expose children to crime to be punished more often and harder than today. This is important from both a child's perspective and a victim's perspective. Mr President, I would like to Victims of sexual crimes often hesitate to report. The Center Party wants to put the victim at the centre. Part of this is to upgrade the violation suffered by the victim so that this is reflected in the compensation of the victim. This is far too low today. In order to help victims of sexual crimes to get through a difficult process, we also want to make it easier for them to change counsel. Those who, in their professional role, may come into contact with people who are victims of violence in close relationships must have basic knowledge and understanding of, for example, the process of normalisation that can occur. Continuous training efforts are needed to ensure that principals, teachers, study and career counselors and other employees at schools have knowledge of and actively work against sexual harassment, gender-based violence and violations. There is also a need for more cutting-edge knowledge among healthcare professionals about sexual abuse. Despite the great efforts made voluntarily in women's and women's shelters, many of these are on their knees. The activities not only need more money, although it is very welcome in the Joint Budget Center Party and the Liberals present with the government. There is also a need for stable, long-term funding. In order for those who report violence in a close relationship to be able to feel safe, the Center Party also wants the reporter to receive victim support within 24 hours of the police report. Mr President, I would like to To live your life according to your own head and desire, to love the one you want, not to be hindered in your life choices, it is rights that must apply to everyone at all times. But that is still not the case. Young women and girls, but also some boys and young men, are subjected to oppression and crimes in the name of honor. Knowledge about honor problems in Sweden is far too low. There is a need for better statistics and knowledge of which actions work best. Here we can see that all political parties have done too little for too long. Now there is a debate about who wants what and who doesn't want what. It's kind of ridiculous. This is an issue that is far too important to score cheap political points on. I am pleased that the Center Party and the Liberals, together with the Green Party and the Social Democrats, will move swiftly with strong legislation to tackle the problems of honour. It's about time.
i-655963132ff88907-174	Mr President, I would like to Men's violence against women is the crime that basically governs the entire world's structure with men's control and women's subordination. It's about men always having the upper hand, or getting the upper hand, through threats, hatred, violence and sexual abuse. We women adapt our lives and behaviour to men's potential threats of violence. Because we can't look at you if you're a rapist or not. That's why we assume all men are rapists. That's the brutal truth. That is what a structural problem looks like. That is why men must assume their collective responsibility. All men. Because I refuse to be afraid. I refuse my sisters to be afraid. That is why the struggle of feminism is the struggle of all. Men's violence must be stopped. Mr President, I would like to In the autumn and winter of 2017, 70 000 women in Sweden witnessed sexual abuse and harassment during the call metoo. The testimony came from women in all different industries and from all levels of society. There were actresses, schoolchildren, lawyers, women in addiction, crime and prostitution and many, many more. They made their voices heard and shared their stories and experiences. After Metoo, no one can turn a blind eye to the extent of the problem. The sexual oppression directed at women and girls cuts throughout our society, and practitioners are men of all ages and with all possible backgrounds and positions. Metoo must lead to lasting social change. Men's violence against women is a serious social problem affecting many people's lives and everyday lives. Crime statistics show that women who are victims of violent crimes are often familiar with or have a close relationship with those who are identified as perpetrators. One in four women has at some point in her life been subjected to crimes in a close relationship. Men's violence against women must be solved in different ways. Much is about the efforts of social services, knowledge of the judiciary and a complete structural change in our society. But there are also some legislative changes that need to be made. The Left Party wants the crime of gross women's freedom to be designed so that more than one person can be prosecuted and held accountable for the respective crimes. Today, the law assumes that the perpetrator is an individual man. However, we know that honour-related repression, for example, is about collective control, where several people can commit the crime. They must be able to be prosecuted effectively, and so several people must be able to be prosecuted for the same crime. Today, legislation is not adapted to the reality of thousands of women and men. That has to change. Honourable oppression must be combated. That is also why more statistics on honour oppression must be collected. Knowledge today is far too low. Victims who have gone through the often long and difficult process from police report to trial and conviction should not then have to sit for hours and fill in complicated paperwork to get their crime compensation. There must be easier ways of dealing with damages and the amount of compensation must be increased. The EU directive on crime victims must also be implemented. It's time. What exactly is the government waiting for? Women who have been systematically exposed to men's violence often feel very bad. Sick leave, hospital bills and financial losses due to the inability to work are common. Women will be beaten and destitute. We can't have that. That is why there must be financial compensation for women who have been beaten, in addition to the victims' injuries themselves. The state must take greater responsibility for the deteriorating economic situation that often follows in the wake of those who have been subjected to men's violence. One way to do this is to explore the possibility of introducing a state system of financial compensation for victims of sexual and physical violence. The introduction of the kind of compensation that we propose is also a clear way of drawing attention to and making visible the economic aspect of men's violence against women. The introduction of additional financial compensation is a remedy for all those women who, behind closed doors, are subjected to violence and oppression by men on a daily basis. I'm in favour of reservation 43.
i-655963132ff88907-187	Mr President, I would like to One of the fundamental pillars of society is that crime must have consequences and that victims must have redress. A functioning judicial society requires that those who break the law be prosecuted and punished. A legal society must maintain a signal system of what is right and what is wrong, but also of those who are affected, the victims of crime. The increased investment in police officers in the current KD-M budget is a step on the road that leads to more police officers, a path that we Christian Democrats have been advocating for years and which now has great political support in our Parliament. More police officers are a prerequisite for a more secure society, but we also need to have a judicial system that leads to more conviction and redress and better support for victims. In the area we are now debating, violent crimes and victims of crime, a majority in the Committee on Justice has supported two proposals for announcements on measures to further strengthen the work. The committee supports, as several speakers have mentioned, the strengthening of penalties for non-compliance with the prohibition of contact and the initiative for a victim portal for those affected by fraud and identity creations. These measures are, in my view, important steps along the way, but I would like to highlight a few more things that should also be implemented as soon as possible. Mr President, I would like to Older people should be treated with respect and not be exposed to crime. Today we have a situation in which the elderly of Sweden are particularly vulnerable to fraud. Often it is about invoice and card fraud or bank-id hives but also about pure attempts to get into older people's homes to steal. Fraud has doubled in just a year. If we look back five years, we see that the number of reported crimes has quadrupled. There are examples from all over our country. I can take an example from my own constituency. In Borås, in the last month, March, the police have received almost 20 reports of old-age crimes, where the perpetrators have reported that they have come from the home service. The situation is serious. Many older people are hit very hard. Afterwards, it is not uncommon to feel uneasy in your own home, to go out or to face such a simple matter as answering when the phone rings. Others are ashamed to have been fooled, but the only ones to be ashamed are actually the cowardly and ruthless criminals who lie and deceive the elderly in Sweden. Treating older people with respect is a fundamental value. In Sweden we should be able to feel that we can trust our fellow human beings. We need to gain a deeper understanding of the vulnerability of older people to crime and to strengthen the preparedness of older people through information efforts. The Christian Democrats are on the side of the elderly. Measures are needed to increase security. A change of valuation is required. Everyone should be able to feel safe. Freedom must not be restricted by the fear of being subjected to crime. Older people should be treated with both dignity and respect. With this in mind, we Christian Democrats want further action to be taken against crimes against the elderly. I am in favour of reservation 2 in the report. Mr President, I would like to As many people have touched on here, honor-related violence and oppression are unfortunately a daily life for many young people in Sweden. Estimates show that over 100,000 girls and boys are limited by honorary oppression. These norms and values do not belong in a modern legal society. Honor-related crime and honour-related repression must be prevented, prevented and punished. As mentioned in previous posts here, a separate criminal classification for honour crimes should be introduced. One could use the rule of gross violation of peace as an example, but the offence should also include acts committed by several different persons by common accord. Criminal protection against forced marriages should also be strengthened. It should be easier to prevent someone being taken out of the country involuntarily for a forced marriage abroad. A very important aspect of the work against honour violence is to increase knowledge throughout the judiciary. Priority should be given to improving the competence of municipalities and authorities on honour crimes. Mr President, I would like to It is no secret that Christian refugees to Sweden suffer threats and violence. Unfortunately, it is unpleasantly quiet about this. But crime is crime, no matter who commits it. The silence surrounding threats against and persecution of Christian refugees in Sweden and converts must be broken. Freedom of religion applies to all, including Christians. Unfortunately, we are seeing a serious development in our society. The Crime Prevention Council will report on a hate crime report as of 2017. In their compilation of the development 2012 – 2016 we see an increase in the number of hate crimes of both Islamophobia and christhophobic nature. It is a development that society must act against. We need to take the figures on the Christian-Physical Hate Crimes seriously. They must stop. All refugees, including those with Christian faith, should be able to feel safe in Sweden. It is clear that Sweden must equip itself better to safeguard freedom of religion and the rule of law. Mr President, I would like to As some previous speakers have said, we need to simplify the payment of damages. Many victims testify to the difficulty of obtaining damages and that the violation after the crime is thus even greater. It's got to be easier. We Christian Democrats believe that the state should take responsibility and pay the compensation to the victim and then recover the amount from the offender. Mr President, I would like to I naturally support the declarations that the committee has endorsed, as I have mentioned before, and the reservations that the Christian Democrats have. But for time-winning, I'll settle for the approval of reservation 2.
i-655963132ff88907-209	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that I feel an enormous commitment after listening to Members who clearly highlight the need for stronger legislation on victims of honour-related violence and repression. In August 2018, the investigation was submitted to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. The investigation contains important legislative proposals. It is a specific penalty for crimes with honorary motives, the possibility of seizing passports and of imposing an exit ban and a special child marriage offence. The study also proposes other important measures to improve the efficiency of the work of the relevant authorities. The investigation is now being referred and will be processed urgently. The legislation could come into force in 2020, if we agree on it in this House. The directive for the new investigation, which will investigate the special regulation of honour-related crime, is shortly to be finalised. It is this legislation, which is not yet under investigation, which is expected to enter into force only in 2022. I promise you that no one in this House will have to convince me that a variety of additional measures need to be taken in several policy areas in the fight against honour-related violence and repression. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. Nevertheless, today many girls and women live in freedom and vulnerability. They are supervised by the family and self-proclaimed moral police. Clothes, associations, educational choices and sexuality are controlled. Children and young people live with fear of being taken out of the country for sexual mutilation, being married away, raped or subjected to attempts at conversion. Those who defy are threatened and subjected to violence. Some even pay with their lives – all of this to uphold an honour that clashes with the rights of the individual and the legislation of our secular and democratic society. No one shall be prevented from gaining access to their fundamental rights and freedoms, which shall apply equally to everyone throughout the country regardless of gender, sexuality, origin, religion or place of residence and whether you are a citizen or a newcomer. In my short time here, I have learned to understand that politics is and should be a forum where we reveal conflict areas on important societal issues. But I am equally convinced that certain policies require more of us. The work against honour-related violence and oppression is one of them. This also applies to all other forms of violence in close relationships. Our common focus must be on the conflict that arises when guardians, partners or others within the family or collective violate the law by exercising violence or depriving the individual of its rights, thereby placing the vulnerable in complete powerlessness. In 2018, telephone calls to Östergötland County Administrative Board increased the national telephone line by 60 per cent. 85% of the calls concerned girls and women. At least 54 percent of the calls concerned vulnerable children. It was serious vulnerability that came out of the phone calls. It was about physical and psychological violence, suspicions and concerns about genital mutilation, child marriages and forced marriages, and threats and fears of being killed. It has also emerged that 65 children and young people have been expelled from the country against their will, with the risk of being subjected to child marriages, forced marriages and genital mutilation. These figures speak clearly why new legislation to protect children from being taken out of the country must be put in place as a matter of urgency. Today, there is an intense debate among politicians and journalists about the children who have been removed from the country by guardians who have joined the terrorist organisation IS – it is about investigating how Sweden will deal with these children's vulnerability. That's good, but I'm surprised how little attention has been paid to all the children who have been taken out of Sweden for many years at the risk of being married away and genital mutilation. I assume that these children will continue to be made visible with this energy and returned to Sweden if this proves possible. In 2016, the Swedish Prosecution Authority was tasked with examining matters related to forced marriage, trial and preparation, as well as misleading matters related to forced marriage. 48 cases were examined. It turned out that in 37 of these preliminary investigations, the plaintiff was a child aged between 12 and 17 years. In cases involving children forced into marriage, it has been common for guardians to be under pressure. It also turned out that the children remained at home with the guardians, who were suspected of the crime. The review concludes that it may be difficult for the plaintiff, for easily discerning reasons, to provide, in interviews, burdensome information on these persons, who may be their only security. It has been shown that there are difficulties in proving that there has been unlawful coercion or exploitation of the vulnerable situation of children as regards suspicions of forced marriage with children as victims of crime. In matters concerning children there are often pressures that are not punishable. Nor is it unusual for the child, by his powerlessness, to say yes against his will. This clearly demonstrates the need to strengthen legislation against forced marriage of children by introducing a child-marriage crime, as suggested by the above-mentioned investigation, which penalises the person who is able or able to allow a child to marry. In addition, it is of great importance that the social services understand the vulnerable child's need and right to be cared for in order for the child to be able to handle a very difficult investigation at all. Recently, I attended a murder trial in which it emerged at the closing argument that there is a lack of clear legislation to substantiate honour as a motive. The trial concerned the murder of a girl who stated that she had come to Sweden as an unaccompanied minor. In May 2016, she was found murdered in Hökarängen. A woman walking saw a little hand sticking out of the ground. The girl had applied for asylum in the autumn of 2015. The girl had already been reported missing in March 2016, but this did not lead to any direct action. Unaccompanied children usually disappear, got the reporter to answer. It turned out that this girl had been brought here by a 20 - year - old man with whom she turned out to be married. The man was already married before, so this girl was his wife number two. In Sweden, she was placed in an HVB home. The girl started a relationship with a boy of her age. This came to her 20 - year - old man's knowledge, and he came to murder her. The sentence against the man came last week – 18 years of imprisonment and expulsion. This girl had lived doomed since early childhood. She was married for the first time as a 12-year-old before this man bought her from her parents. The murder was the final destruction of this girl's life. She is one of all the betrayed victims behind the statistics we often refer to. The murder of this girl has affected me strongly. The National Skills Team had since autumn 2015 brought to responsible politicians that the support phone had received several issues concerning children who were already exposed to child marriage on arrival in Sweden. The confusion in the municipalities and in politics was great. When I read about the murder of this girl, I thought that once again a young girl had to pay with her life to get politics to understand and take action, as in the case of Fadime. But this time there was no reaction, and I felt a tremendous sadness. However, the greatest despair came when I learned that the girl's funeral took place only nine months after she was murdered and that several calls were required from a tax officer to the social services who wondered how long Marzieh, as the girl's name was, would remain in the morgue. This is something for which all of us in this House are responsible, and one thing is certain: victims of crime cannot wait any longer. Action must be taken. My loyalty, like that of the Liberals, will forever be with all the unfree and vulnerable for whom we have always fought. My responsibility is that the freedom that I have taken for granted should apply to all girls and women in Sweden, whether they are Maria, Maja or Marzieh. Saying you're a feminist government is simple. But being a feminist government requires an active stance, action and a responsibility to see and act in order for all girls and women, boys and men in our society to be given equal opportunities to shape and influence their lives. Everyone should have power over their sexuality and a life free from oppression and violence, but above all be treated with dignity and respect. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservation 19 and, of course, support all the other reservations of the Liberals.
i-WuBoLRxrvj7z62iaSKhh6m	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Mikael Damberg, Minister for the Environment and Climate Policy Isabella Lövin, Minister of State Matilda Ernkrans and Minister for Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-MDu8U6djq41RwU2xx6u6S3	Madam President, I would like Mikael Damberg has presented his first budget to the police as Minister for the Interior. The result was that the government cut the appropriations by SEK 230 million. It is a quarter of the contribution to the police that was made to the Moderate and Christian Democrats budget and that the Riksdag voted for last autumn. In a country where insecurity is becoming increasingly felt by all people, I find it provocative to cut the police budget. If we are to create a Sweden that is more secure and combat crime, we need to prioritise law enforcement and reach the target of 10 000 more police workers in the coming years. The government justifies the cut by the fact that the Prison Service takes over responsibility for certain transports. But that decision was already made two years ago, and it is a small comfort when the police drop a quarter of a billion dollars this year. How can Sweden become a safer country, the Minister for the Interior, if the government withdraws SEK 230 million for the police just this year?
i-655963132ff88907-238	Madam President, I would like I note that this year the Police Authority receives SEK 1.6 billion more than last year. The budget savings were about SEK 700 million from last year. We are making the biggest effort on the Police Authority in modern times, and we will pursue it, with the aim of increasing security and for the police organisation to grow to 10 000 more employees by 2024. It is an extremely ambitious piece of work that I will follow, carry out and carry out. The police authorities have problems doing some tasks that they do not think they should give priority. One such task is transport. Correctional services have to deal with more transport, and more transport is being done today than a few years ago. However, it is also reasonable to receive compensation for the transport carried out.
i-655963132ff88907-240	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Let me repeat that nothing of what Mikael Damberg says in his reply changes the fact that the decision was taken two years ago and that it will be SEK 230 million less for the police this year than it would otherwise have been. I note that the government is now talking about major efforts on the judiciary. There is one thing to be said. With more such efforts on the police, it will be difficult to reach the target of 10,000 more police employees and to create a safer Sweden.
i-655963132ff88907-243	Madam President, I would like I simply note that we will continue to make strong efforts on the police this year, next year and the years after to achieve the ambition of 10 000 more police workers. It is a massive expansion, and there will be more police officers present all over the country. The fight against crime will be more effective, and security will increase. This also means that the police should do their job, not do transport. Then we must also resolve the issue of the cost between the Prison Service and the police.
i-655963132ff88907-245	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister for Home Affairs Mikael Damberg. The other day, April 7, was the anniversary of the tragic and disgusting attack on Drottninggatan. It was the terrorist attack that should never have taken place. Rakhmat Akilov lived illegally for several years in Sweden as part of a shadow society. It is a shadow society beyond the control of the state, which consists of people who reside illegally in Sweden. It is a shadow society where crime and radicalisation have their perfect soil to grow in.
i-655963132ff88907-249	Madam President, I would like First, I'll start on April 7th. It is a terrible date that has entered the history books, and it is important to honour both the victims and the heroes who worked then and effectively caught the terrorist in a relatively short time. This also applies to all the firefighters, ambulance staff and police officers who dealt with the issue. We have now focused on strengthening Sweden's preparedness to prevent terrorist offences and to remedy terrorist offences if they occur. Through two cross-block collaborations in the Swedish Parliament, we have strengthened resources for the Swedish Security Service and the police. We have trained the police so that they have become stronger in dealing with these issues. The police are receiving new resources in the form of equipment and equipment. That work continues. It is also about sharper legislation that allows us to deal with terrorist crimes in the past. It is clear from the word shadow society that it is not easy to get accurate statistics on something that lives in the shadow of society. However, it is a problem that parts of society do not reside legally and to a large extent also suffer from violence and crime.
i-655963132ff88907-252	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I understand the Minister doesn't know how many people are in shadow society. There is no one who knows how many people live in shadow society because the government has chosen year after year not to map it. Qualified guesses from the Red Cross and the police mention figures from 10,000 and 70 000. I don't know. The Minister may think there are even more.
i-655963132ff88907-256	Madam President, I would like I think it is more important to address the problems of shadow society rather than to consider how to map something that is not public or on which statistics are not available. We have given the Police Authority increased powers to do, for example, foreigner controls at workplaces to check that people are not being exploited there. Legislation against human exploitation has been tightened up. This is something that affects many in these groups, for example in the form of begging or in companies that do not treat people well. It is important that this work continues.
i-655963132ff88907-259	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Mikael Damberg. The Government has in recent weeks attacked a Swedish company that wants to exercise its statutory right to appeal a judgment in order to have a Swedish law reviewed. The Government has claimed that if it does not agree with the Government, it protects criminals and that the company has as its business model the protection of paedophiles. The Government has threatened to withdraw the permit of Bahnhof. It is a company that has not broken Swedish law but still got to feel the Government's anger. Does the Minister consider that Swedish companies and citizens no longer have the right to appeal judgments in order to have laws reviewed?
i-655963132ff88907-262	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. This is an incredibly important issue, because we would not have stood here and discussed the requirements for data storage legislation if the telecom companies had cooperated with the police, stored this data and provided it in an orderly manner to the police authorities and to Säpo. This is one of the tools that has disappeared for Swedish police and security services. It is a tool that they consider to be one of the most important to tackle child pornography offences, terrorism and serious organised crime in Sweden. There has also been, I believe, quite broad agreement in this House that we need this legislation in Sweden and that these companies should provide the data to the security police and police. If I then hear that some companies absolutely do not want to cooperate with the police in this, even though we have investigated the issue and done about the legislation to meet European requirements, then I must be able to say that I expect Swedish companies to also comply with Swedish legislation that is decided in this House. Then you have to choose a side too. I note that Tele 2 has chosen not to appeal against the judgment. I see that as positive.
i-655963132ff88907-266	Madam President, I would like I may have to inform the Government if it is not criminal to demand that Sweden's laws are legally secure. It is not criminal to demand compliance with applicable law even if the government wants a different law. Nor is it criminal to require the government to live up to the laws that actually apply to its work. What has been said by Mr Bahnhof is simply that it wants to appeal to ensure that the new law complies with the European law in force. I hope that the Council of State has no different opinion than that the law that is being proposed must live up to European law.
i-655963132ff88907-269	Madam President, I would like We have had an investigation into precisely how to adapt our legislation to European law. That is the proposal that is on the table of Parliament. That is also the starting point of the legislation, and that is why we have differentiated the requirements for telecom companies. But it is criminal to engage in child pornography crimes. It's criminal to prepare for terrorist crimes. If police and security police do not get the tools to be able to access and convict these criminals, I mean that telecom companies are contributing to increased crime in Sweden, and that is serious.
i-655963132ff88907-272	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ernkrans. We know that women are currently at a disadvantage as they come higher up in education systems. A recent report from Allbright states, for example, that women have been about half of economic students since the beginning of the 90s, but that there are fewer doctoral students, even fewer lecturers and only one in five professors who are women. We can also see that women and men choose different educations. Eighty-five per cent of beginners in nursing education were women. Seventy-five per cent of the engineers were men. In a recent interview, the Government said that women's interest in technology and natural knowledge can increase through cosmetics. Nevertheless, there are quite a few women who are looking for scientific education, but it gets fewer and fewer the further up you get. My question, therefore, is how the Government intends to work to find a solution to both misrecruitment and the disadvantage of women in the academic world.
i-655963132ff88907-277	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the questions. These are really important questions. I am part of a feminist government, and we have equal education as one of our gender equality objectives. I am pleased to have the question of how we can tackle the fact that we need to break gender-based study choices. We need to ensure that girls can choose natural knowledge and technology, but also that boys can choose to become teachers or nurses. I want to make it clear that in what I have said, I have referred to research, including from Linköping University. It feels close to me as Minister for Research to do so, and it is simply about how to maintain both girls' and boys' interest in natural knowledge and technology. I will come back to you in the next reply on further measures.
i-655963132ff88907-282	Madam President, I would like We know that the previous government also called itself feminist and pursued feminist education policy. But we also know that in the four years when we had a social-democratic and environmental-partisan government, nothing happened in this area. For example, no more women are applying for male-dominated education. Above all, very little happens when women are disadvantaged in the academic world, for example in terms of research grants and promotions.
i-655963132ff88907-284	Madam President, I would like I don't share the picture that nothing has happened. I share the view that we need to do much more. We have set a goal that in 2030, as many women as men will be recruited for professor training. During the last parliamentary term, we took steps to increase the number of newly recruited professors. It has also increased. We have also worked actively with gender mainstreaming, which has, among other things, led a university like Chalmers to decide to invest SEK 300 million to get more women to choose technical professions. So things are happening, aren't they?
i-655963132ff88907-288	Madam President, I would like Rape investigations are being piled up. Serious violent crimes will have to wait, and we all know the reason: the police have a serious shortage of resources, not least on the investigator side. The many shootings and murders consume resources. To solve the problem, more police are needed in the core business. The M-KD budget now makes it possible to raise wages significantly, but unfortunately it seems to be a one-year effort because of the government's unwillingness to make a targeted police salary raise. But the Christian Democrats have several other good proposals to stop development. I would like to ask Mikael Damberg a question about one of these. We call it the GW model. It is about re-employment of retired police officers with great experience and skills that could come back and make a big effort with a substantial salary boost. The method has been successfully tested in Stockholm. Is this a solution that the Government is prepared to look at and also propose on the part of the Government?
i-655963132ff88907-293	Madam President, I would like It is an important issue, which is about the competence of the police, but also the ability to grow in the coming years. The police will grow with 10,000 more employees by 2024, and not all of the new jobs can be young, new police officers. It is also necessary to recruit police officers who left the profession after the major reorganisation or recruit from other professions in order for the Police Authority to be more effective and successful in its law enforcement activities. This work is now being carried out by the Police Authority. I have listened to the chief of police several times and asked questions about how to work structurally with re-recruitment. It has such a structured work. However – and there I differ a little from Andreas Carlson – I will not interfere in wage-setting models within the Police Authority. I think it is dangerous if we in Parliament start making decisions on salaries and conditions for government employees. I think we should provide the resources that we see yielding results, not least in good pay agreements for the police right now.
i-655963132ff88907-297	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I would like to begin by saying that those police officers who can now receive increased salaries, those who work in the core business in external service or as investigators, do not think it is dangerous that they have twice as much space in this wage movement and that they focus on police officers in the core business, thanks to the clear direction that is now in place with the M-KD budget. The question also related to how the Government wants to take increased responsibility for providing the funds needed to get more retired police officers back in quickly to solve the problem of rape investigations being piled up.
i-655963132ff88907-299	Madam President, I would like I have full confidence that the Police Authority is better placed to make those assessments than Andreas Carlson or Mikael Damberg. We will allow the authorities to take decisions on salaries and conditions, but also recruitment. We are not going to politicise the authorities in that part. On the other hand, we will pursue the investment in the police with much more resources but also more employees, and we will make demands for follow-up so that they use the resources in the best possible way.
i-655963132ff88907-302	Madam President, I would like My question is to Minister Lövin. Along the lower Dalälven have been caught the most sting mosquitoes in the world. The amount of mosquitoes in this area is hitting business and tourism. The kids can't play outside. The sheep lie down to protect themselves. The government has replied to me that these problems are largely a regional responsibility. I believe that the state has a responsibility. But the government refers to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency hands over to the government. Mosquito question buzzes in circles. Long-term control is needed for these people. I asked if the government could consider three-year state of control in those areas where it is most intolerable. The minister asked to await the government decision. Now I'm hoping for an answer. Is the government prepared to facilitate long-term mosquito control around the lower Dalälven?
i-655963132ff88907-307	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lina Nordquist, for the question! When the government presented the spring change budget, we were also able to announce that SEK 12 million will be able to go to mosquito control at the lower Dalälven. It's not the first time the government's gone in with support. This is of course a big and painful problem for people and animals at the lower Dalälven– it is easy to say. For a number of years, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Rural Development Programme have contributed large sums of money to combat flood mosquitoes. At the same time, there is a mission to look at alternative ways to fight these mosquitoes, for example by looking at how traditional with bait and mowing, water purification and water regulation can record. But the government is still prepared to help the region with this.
i-655963132ff88907-310	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. After all, this is an annual invasion, and yet it is an annual uncertainty. My view is that the key words are long-term effective combating. The affected municipalities have an ongoing agreement on precisely long-term mosquito control while the state, on the other hand, is the uncertain factor that makes it difficult for people to live in these areas with peace of mind. Actually, the question is simple: Mosquito or people?
i-655963132ff88907-313	Madam President, I would like It is clear that it is not natural for us to spray each year from helicopters with large amounts of antifungal agents. Therefore, there is a mission to account for alternative ways to fight these mosquitoes. There is also a landscape strategy – People, mosquitoes and nature at the lower Dalälven – where we have commissioned the regions to look at how to find alternative pesticides. But the government is, of course, prepared to continue to support the fight.
i-655963132ff88907-315	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg. I'd like to start by saying that I hope you had a good day in Ludvika yesterday... or rather, I'm pretty sure it was fantastically good. You probably had a lot of impressions and a lot of wisdom about the everyday life of the police in Ludvika. It is clear that the challenges are somewhat different around the country. The staff who work in the blue light operations perform a work that often means a difference between life and death. Their work also creates security for citizens. Despite this, the blue light staff are exposed to stoning and other things that both make it difficult and sometimes prevent the operation. I have noted that on Friday, I think, the Minister for the Interior presented a new draft legislation. As usual, there is, of course, criticism of the proposal. Often it is too little and too late, and this time it also seems to be too much. How does the Minister of the Interior view the criticism that has been made of the proposal?
i-655963132ff88907-318	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. Last Friday, I, the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister of Södertörn University were to meet police students. We then also presented a new bill that applies to what we call blue light abotage and introduces criminal law protection for blue light operations – police, rescue services and ambulance personnel. It should be tougher punishment for those who delay or attack personnel who pull out and carry out this time critical activity. I think it is perfectly reasonable for us to have greater protection, especially for these students. They should know that when they leave the breakfast or dinner table to go on the next pass, they have society in their backs, because they are making great efforts for Swedish democracy.
i-655963132ff88907-320	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. My supplementary question is very brief: what is the timetable for this important legislation?
i-655963132ff88907-321	Madam President, I would like Let's roll out the bill. They must then be processed in Parliament and all that, but the starting point is that from 1 January 2020 we will have this legislation in place. I think it is an important piece of legislation that provides greater protection for our important blue-light staff. But it is also a way for society to highlight the importance of this activity.
i-655963132ff88907-323	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. Right now, 90 percent of the electricity we produce in Sweden comes from energy sources that do not emit carbon dioxide. However, if nuclear power were to be removed, only 50% of our energy would come from sources that do not emit carbon dioxide. On its website, the Green Party writes that from the end of 2020 we will be able to do without nuclear power. Then the question arises: Where will the energy to meet the remaining 50% of our energy needs come from? Is it from German coal or Russian gas?
i-655963132ff88907-325	Madam President, I would like We are currently seeing a substantial expansion of wind power in Sweden. The forecast is that within four years wind power will account for 25 per cent of Sweden's electricity production. Add to this the 40% that hydropower currently stands for and the potential 10% that solar power will be able to provide in the longer term, if we give it the best conditions. We also have great potential in terms of energy efficiency, with smart grids and new ways of transmission between different EU countries and with our neighbours. In a modern future, of course, we will have the cheapest, best, easiest and most local solution for electricity generation. We should not lock ourselves in and become dependent on imports of either oil, coal, gas or Russian uranium.
i-655963132ff88907-328	Madam President, I would like I did not understand that the Government answered my question. Let us note that 2.8% of the electricity we use in this is now from wind power. That figure is expected to double by next year. The Green Party believes that we can shut down nuclear power as early as next year. It is written on its website that Sweden from 2020 can operate only with renewable energy sources. Then the question is where we should take the remaining part to meet our energy needs.
i-655963132ff88907-330	I would remind Members that it is the duties of the Ministers of State that are at stake.
i-655963132ff88907-331	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that comment. I cannot answer what Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin refers to. But the answer I can give is that we in Sweden have an energy agreement, which the Moderates are also on, which has given stability to Swedish industry and power companies and has been welcomed very broadly in society. The agreement has ensured that we have achieved a very rapid expansion of renewable fuels. Renewable energy sources are less than half as expensive as new nuclear power.
i-655963132ff88907-332	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Culture. Yesterday, the Government presented its Spring Change Budget, and in Category 17, Culture, Media, Faith and Leisure, a number of away priorities have been set. For example, it is very worrying that our investment in libraries in vulnerable areas is completely removed. If you want to make culture accessible, it is primarily about investing in children and young people who do not have bookshelves at home, instead of at free museum entrances for adults in Stockholm's inner city. Why is this remarkable priority being made?
i-655963132ff88907-334	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. The government has presented a spring change budget with offensive efforts on culture in Sweden. We invest more in culture than the Moderates and Christian Democrats did in their budget. Among other things, we have made sure to restore the cultural school grant that was removed and that has been appreciated and requested throughout the country. It is very gratifying to be able to announce that it is now back. We have also invested in re-establishing free admission at state museums. We have noted that in the state we have a common democratic cultural heritage. I and the government make the assessment that it is perfectly reasonable for as many people as possible to be able to take part in it. As regards the specific approach to libraries to which reference is made, I would like to say that we currently have extensive support for libraries where these efforts are expected to be included.
i-655963132ff88907-337	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In the spring change budget, the government completely removes an investment in physical training for the elderly. It is, of course, a preventive measure to strengthen the health of older people and to combat loneliness, but it is also socially profitable for older people to be healthier longer. Why does this initiative end in the middle of a construction phase?
i-655963132ff88907-338	Madam President, I would like I fully share the questioner's assessment that we need to do more to get older people moving. We need to do more to break the loneliness that many older people are locked in. Sports movement is part of it. We have chosen to set aside 20 million to be invested in counteracting the loneliness of the elderly. Of course, action on movement, health and sport can also be part of this.
i-655963132ff88907-341	Madam President, I would like An Olympic or not is probably the big question that many people want answers to. Stockholm City said yes first, then no, then yes. However, they will not budget anything for it. The state was at first silent, then silent, and then a yes came to finance external security and visa management. However, many warn that the cost calculation that has been produced is seriously under-run – it concerns both the budget of the IOK of 13 billion and what our external security would cost. In view of the cuts made at the Police Authority, I would like to ask the question: What guarantees does the government give that the Olympics will not take resources beyond daily work from, for example, the police? And what is the estimated cost for external security, for example?
i-655963132ff88907-343	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for the question of cost. I am very pleased that, after a very rapid preparation since the government took office, we have been able to provide assurances on external security, visa management and the like so that the SOK can now proceed with its application. It's still a race. We do not know where it ends yet, but I and the government hope of course that Sweden will have the opportunity to arrange the games. It would be positive for the joy of movement, the parasport movement in Sweden and of course also the image of Sweden. In terms of costs, it is only external security that Sweden goes in and guarantees, just as at all major events – it can be about ministerial visits, sports events or cultural events. Our authorities have made an assessment there. It is certainly not about the billions on which data is now available, on the contrary. When the games approach and we know if we get them, we will receive an application for a state of order, and then we will see exactly what it is about.
i-655963132ff88907-347	Madam President, I would like It's a little strange that you don't already have a cost estimate. If you want as broad a political consensus as possible, that is what you should consider. That is why we have not been able to give an answer, even if we have been cautiously positive, because we have not received all the answers as to what the cost would mean and how great it would be. Can the Government guarantee that no tax revenue will go in if we stand with a deficit after the end of the Olympic Games?
i-655963132ff88907-349	Madam President, I would like Yes, I can absolutely guarantee that. The only thing the government says is that we should deal with things that it still falls on the authorities to deal with: visa issues, passport issues and police issues related to security outside the arena. We will not go in and cover any financial costs for the games themselves either before or after them.
i-655963132ff88907-351	Madam President, I would like The development of Swedish emissions is going in the wrong direction. The last term of office was clear, and the trend break was marked: Swedish emissions increased. Recent statistics from Trafikverket also show a trend break on the transport side. Now these emissions are also increasing. That is totally unacceptable! For almost a year, Sweden has been without an environmental car definition. It is a problem, for companies and authorities use it to procure smart. It's good because we're getting new environmentally smart cars on the market. It also gives us a better secondary market. This will also allow us to reduce our emissions, but we do not have an environmental car definition. Why, I wonder. When do we get one of those, Isabella Lövin?
i-655963132ff88907-355	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the important question! As Rickard Nordin knows, the government has worked very intensively to develop a new bonus system, so-called bonus-malus, for new cars. There we have tightened the criteria for what can be considered a bonus car. Such a person can receive strong support, 60 000 kroner (U.S.). At the same time, we raise taxes on the most releasing cars, so-called malus. Since this was introduced on 1 July last year, we have had elections and a long process of government formation, which has meant that the government has not been able to proceed with establishing a new environmental car definition that will harmonize with the bonus – the Malus system. We are currently working on this in the government, and I hope to be able to come back as soon as possible with a new environmental car definition. It is about 2 000 passenger cars per year, so it is important.
i-655963132ff88907-357	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isabella Lövin, for the answer! However, I am a little worried if you do not see from the Government Office that these issues are interrelated. A bonus – Malus system is good, but it would also be perfectly reasonable to have the other legislation in place at the same time, especially as we had an environmental car definition that would then also fall out. In fact, standing here a year later and still not having answers is totally unacceptable, not least given the increase in emissions. We are talking about the climate issue, which is so urgent. When, a little more precisely, can we expect a message?
i-655963132ff88907-360	Madam President, I would like I cannot give an exact date, but we are working on this. I can possibly say that there are still opportunities for municipalities and public institutions to procure according to the old environmental car definition. Kammarkollegiet also supports this through framework procurement. This is something we need to get in place as soon as possible. Furthermore, of course, I share the great concern about the possible increase in emissions in the transport sector.
i-655963132ff88907-361	Madam President, I would like The government boasts of how much you sharpen the penalties and how long people should be in prison. Now the jails and the prisons are overcrowded. The union warns that it is now becoming dangerous. The staff are on their knees. Time of residence and inflow will break the Prison Service. The government will have to place the Riksbank next to the Correctional Office in order to afford to build all the new prisons that will be needed. At the same time, there is solid research showing that long prison sentences have no effect on crime.
i-XzDSaHCwKcQNyucuB93qV1	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Westerlund Snecker, for the question! As things stand, we will need to build more prisons in the future. It is totally untenable with the situation that is. That is why we are planning such an expansion, and it is necessary. I still want to complicate the picture a little bit. Had we not tightened the penalties for serious weapons crimes, for example, the police would not have been able to frame and lock up so many serious criminal individuals who have used firearms and walked around with firearms. We see that there are now four or five times as many people arrested for weapons offences compared to before, and that has to do with stricter legislation. It is therefore necessary to do this in order to repress serious crime. But that is not enough. We must also make other social efforts and work preventively, not least with social services, recreation centres and school interventions, especially in the most vulnerable areas of Sweden. It is a work that we will continue to carry out and, above all, work closely together, because prevention will also be needed in order to succeed in law enforcement.
i-655963132ff88907-368	Madam President, I would like I think it is time to raise our eyes in criminal policy and see how other countries deal with the problem. Sweden is not unique in any way. Belgium has introduced penalties free of electronic surveillance for the lower categories of offences. This has reduced the population of institutions. To bring crime down, we have to do things that really work. Raising the penalty doesn't work. I think it is time we started looking at new forms of punishment and using more punishment in freedom.
i-655963132ff88907-370	Madam President, I would like I think it is important not to put these questions entirely against each other. If we do not have some severe penalties that give the police the authority to work with secret telephone tapping and can access the criminal gangs, we cannot push the shootings back in Sweden. It is therefore incredibly important to do this but at the same time work preventively, not least with the Prison Service so that there is good quality there so that people are re-integrated into society. Let us not ask each other the questions, but let us do both. Otherwise, I think we'll lose in the long run.
i-655963132ff88907-373	Madam President, I would like I would like to put a question to Minister Damberg, who seems to be popular today when it comes to getting questions. In the spring change budget, 232 million are transferred from the Police Authority to the Prison Service. I think it is unfortunate to cut back on the police in a situation where the agency has the objective of reaching 10 000 employees in five years. The first question I would like to put to Minister Damberg is: what impact assessments have been made of the drastic reduction? Police transport costs should include salary costs for police officers and vehicle costs. These are, of course, costs that do not disappear simply because a change is made to the tables. I believe that the 232 million is money that the agency had anticipated in its planning to strengthen the Swedish police in the long term.
i-655963132ff88907-377	Madam President, I would like I would first like to note that the Police Authority receives SEK 1.6 billion more this year than last year. There is a massive expansion and thus no savings at the Police Authority this year. On the other hand, we need to solve the problems relating to transport. I don't think I've been to a single police station around Sweden where the issue has not been raised that a lot of police time is devoted to other things than law enforcement and crime prevention. Transport is one such issue. Then we must ensure that the Police Authority and the Prison Service are agreed and find a long-term system in which the Prison Service can relieve the police with transport. The fact that the Prison Service would not handle some of the transports for the police now and that the police would have to spend more time pushing criminal crosses across Sweden would not be good for the efficiency of the police and the law enforcement work. It is a reasonable balance that is being struck, and I hope that we can resolve this issue once and for all this year.
i-655963132ff88907-380	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your first answer. I note that I did not hear a reply on the analysis of the consequences of the change. I'm excited to hear it in the second answer. I can ask you a supplementary question. Even if the ma n gets 1.6 billion, 232 million are removed. Can the Minister of the Interior guarantee that the de facto cut will not affect the target of 10,000 more police workers in five years?
i-655963132ff88907-383	Madam President, I would like I can guarantee that the government will pursue the work of 10,000 more police workers with full power. We have begun, and we are pursuing. We will have a stronger police force all over Sweden. This work continues. If the police transport issues linked to the police had not been resolved, the consequence would have been that more police cars need to be used to handle transport instead of law enforcement or crime prevention work. I think this would have been a bad priority for the Police Authority.
i-655963132ff88907-385	Madam President, I would like Me and Prime Minister Amanda Lind have the funniest policy area you can have. It is about culture and democracy, and what is more urgent in times like these when culture and democracy are being attacked on a broad front? Just over two months ago, the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis presented its report on how cultural policy is related to national objectives. Some of the most pressing issues raised there are the lack of stable and long-term economic development in the field of culture at state, regional and municipal level, but above all the fact that differences in the accessibility of the population to cultural activities have been strengthened geographically and socio-economically and that this contributes to strong selection effects. My question is: what is the Government doing to increase cultural activity and participation in the population, not least in order to combat the selective effects?
i-655963132ff88907-388	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Lawen, for an urgent question. The Agency for Cultural Analysis points out and shows that this is a challenge that we have had for a long time in cultural policy. Unfortunately, that has been the case. We have gaps in accessibility and participation in our cultural life, depending both on where you live and on the background of your parents, for example. Here we need to do more. I am very pleased, once again, that we were able to present the reintroduction of the grant to the cultural school. It is a development grant that has been widely appreciated, which has been applied for by virtually all of the county's municipalities and which aims to develop new methods for more children and young people to participate in the cultural school. It's a participatory reform. Then we'll do a lot more.
i-655963132ff88907-391	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I was on a study visit to my residential area in Järva, where this money was used specifically to reach out to young people who had had a long way to enter cultural activities. Now, unfortunately, we see that there is a policy in Stockholm's municipality that reduces cultural activities for children and young people. This has resulted in the closure of a lot of activities. Can the State and this type of contribution thus compensate, or does the Government see a need for bourgeois parties to push forward an economic policy for culture?
i-655963132ff88907-394	Madam President, I would like As Minister of Culture and Democracy, I do not comment on the priorities of individual municipalities in their budgets. However, I do of course wish that we all see the need to invest in an equal and accessible culture for all. Another area that I am pleased that we agree to move forward now is reading and reading promotion. It is also democratic and reaches out to all children and young people in schools. We will invest more in this and take it further as soon as we can.
i-655963132ff88907-396	Madam President, I would like That research is important to society and that it needs long-term conditions, all parties in Parliament agree on that. This was also evident when the research bill was discussed here in the Riksdag two years ago. But in the 2019 transitional government budget, there was not a row about the 600 million that was promised to research, but well about an e-bike premium of 350 million. Thankfully, this was restored to the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, but not until yesterday did universities, colleges and research councils know which foot the government would stand on. This has created uncertainty. One of the research councils that have lost money is the Swedish Research Council, which has a large share for basic research. I would like to ask the Minister for Research whether it has not realised the importance of long-termism and why the Swedish Research Council is losing money.
i-655963132ff88907-398	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question. I would like to start by saying that Sweden is and will be a leading research nation. We will and can provide long-term conditions for research. We are the country in Europe, not to say the world, which, in relation to our bnp, provides the most for research and innovation. We shall continue to do this. It is true that this time the Swedish Research Council had to take about 1.2 per cent of its funding in the spring change budget to help finance, for example, the massive reduction that the Moderates and Christian Democrats made in terms of the environmental and climate budget. There goes 2 billion. The government has given it back. We have also given back an investment in the school, where we can now go forward with a substantial investment in teacher assistants so that our teachers get help and support at school to be just teachers and so that our students can learn more and bring with them good knowledge for the future.
i-655963132ff88907-401	Madam President, I would like It is a little interesting that I am told that the SEK 100 million that we had invested in climate research chose the government to prioritise away. Another issue that concerns the importance of research is that we also get teachers in place. Here the government says that it wants to delay the expansion of, among other things, teacher training places. These include supplementary education for academics. Here we know that there is a large search print. Is it true that these trainings will not come about either, and if so, how has the government reasoned in view of the lack of teachers?
i-655963132ff88907-404	Madam President, I would like I think it is important that we keep some order and know what we are saying and what we are dealing with for the future. Nevertheless, we note that we will spend SEK 100 million more on expanding higher education during this time. That's about 1,000 full-year students. Of course, a lot of them will be teachers. That is our message for the future. We will continue to expand the knowledge boost.
i-655963132ff88907-406	Madam President, I would like Last Saturday about 67 000 people took the university exam. One of the elements is reading comprehension, where the lyrics are about school and democracy. In this case they were written by Arne Hellmark, who is an active left-wing party. Towards the end of the text Hellmark gives a boot to the Swedish Democrats and refers to us as right-wing extremity and refers to iron tube cremation. Hellmark can of course write about what he wants. But there is a problem when the UHR as an independent authority uses a politically angled text as a basis for a test by thousands of Swedes. It is quite clear that with such a text, the UHR takes a party political position. As an authority, one has a great responsibility and should at all times be non-political. My question therefore goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. How does the Government intend to act to ensure that authorities do not misuse their position and that a similar situation does not arise again?
i-655963132ff88907-408	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question. This is a question that must be asked and answered by the responsible authority. That will be my answer to this question. I trust that our authorities will take responsibility for what they are responsible for and know what they are doing.
i-655963132ff88907-409	Madam President, I would like Perhaps an individual case would have been the test in Skellefteå, where secondary school students the other week had to answer the question which measures should be taken to prevent the development of the nationalist Swedish democrats. It is, if possible, an even more problematic question. However, I may think that the university test is nevertheless a national matter, and I believe that the Government is, after all, guilty of the answer in terms of how an authority should generally work for party political independence and for the maintenance of democracy.
i-655963132ff88907-411	Madam President, I would like I maintain that this is the responsibility of the authorities, and I assume that the authorities will accept this responsibility.
i-655963132ff88907-412	Madam President, I would like There has been enough knowledge for many years to make clear political decisions about the wolf. But what we are seeing today is free development without political governance. The Art and Habitats Directive, as well as the parliamentary decision, already allows for a halving of today's wolf tribe, both in Sweden and in Norway. Many also believe that the number 170 – 270 is a framework for how many wolf individuals we should have. But in fact it is this number that was given to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to add a reference value within this. Since the smallest viable strain is 100, already 170 had been well above the scientific figure.
i-655963132ff88907-415	Madam President, I would like I thank Marléne Lund Kopparklint for the question. It is the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that is responsible for the reporting that we are required to do under the Species and Habitats Directive every six years. It is very important that this reporting is done on a strictly scientific basis. The framework set by the Riksdag in 2013 for 170 to 270 individuals has been handed over to our authority. It has established that in order for a favourable conservation status to apply under the Species and Habitats Directive, 270 individuals must not be underestimated. The Swedish population has had a higher rate of inbreeding than is considered acceptable. Therefore, it has also been stated that we need immigrant wolves from Finland in order to maintain a favourable conservation status.
i-655963132ff88907-419	Madam President, I would like The most important measure in the Government's budget is apparently to increase substantially the appropriations for the Climate Action Region. The Swedish National Audit Office has recently reviewed the Climate Scene, and it is no cheerful reading for us who like effective climate policy that makes a difference or, for that matter, savings with taxpayers' money. In the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the Climate Board, you can read that the climate category is not correctly calculated, that it does not generate cost-effective measures to achieve environmental objectives, that marginal costs are significantly higher than according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's statistics, that the costs are also higher than what is required to achieve the 2030 climate target, according to the Environmental Objectives Committee, and that it is not part of a cost-effective combination of instruments to achieve the Swedish climate target by 2030. My question to the Government is therefore: why is it a good idea to spend even more money on ineffective environmental policies that do not save the climate?
i-655963132ff88907-422	Madam President, I would like I thank Martin Kinnunen for the question. Environmental and climate policy are also very much about finding acceptance. So it is not just a question of what is the most effective method. The Swedish National Audit Office has pointed out what is the most effective method for reducing emissions. It is a major increase in CO2 taxes, i.e. petrol and diesel taxes. Anyone who calls for the most effective climate policy here in the speaker's chair should therefore also be prepared to take a decision to significantly increase CO2 taxes. Otherwise, you can also work with carrots for a transformation for the whole country. This is exactly what the climate category is used for, i.e. to co-finance additional climate investments throughout the country for municipalities, for companies and also for associations and others. Climate change makes it possible to switch to charging infrastructure and other things throughout the country.
i-655963132ff88907-426	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg. In the event of an emergency, it is important that the police, emergency services and ambulance can quickly be in place to begin a relief operation. SOS Alarm today has a blunt tool and limited ability to precisely locate people who cannot tell themselves where they are. There is a new system called AML, where you can get an automatic GPS positioning. For me, it is self-evident that this should be able to be used. Now it seems to be an unclear legal position in Sweden regarding this communication and integrity that means that new legislation may be needed.
i-655963132ff88907-431	Madam President, I would like I thank Heléne Björklund for a very important question. We know that rescue operations really save lives and reduce suffering if they are done quickly. We must therefore look at everything we can do to ensure that SOS alarms work as smartly as possible. The vast majority of calls into SOS Alarm today come via smart phones. Then new technology should enable you to directly see where the phone call comes from and can position this exactly. I have spoken with SOS Alarm and understood that the company is working to enable positioning already this summer. Should there prove to be any rule or law that needs to be changed to make this possible, I am fully prepared to proceed with it, but as it looks now SOS Alarm is working to get this in place already before the summer. I think that seems very good.
i-655963132ff88907-435	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Amanda Lind. Sweden lacks an immunity law for art, unlike most other countries. When you bring art from another country to show it, it is therefore not certain that you bring the art back with you, but it remains here if someone claims any of the works of art. I have talked to the National Museum about this, among other things, and they see it as a problem. There are examples of Russian art that would have been shown in Sweden, but they didn't dare because they didn't know if they could bring the art back to Russia. This has been in the department for a while, and not much happened during the last parliamentary term. I therefore wonder: what does the Minister intend to do to get the immunity law in place?
i-655963132ff88907-438	Madam President, I would like I thank Roland Utbolt for the question. This is important. When art is lent to us and we have the opportunity to show jewels and beautiful art from all over the world, it should be done on safe terms so that art has the opportunity to be returned to where it was lent from. Just as Roland Utbolt describes, this is an issue that is being looked at within the department, and that is the message I can give today.
i-655963132ff88907-440	Madam President, I would like The government is keen to talk about the fact that the number of students admitted to teacher education has increased in recent years. That's good. What is not mentioned, however, is that the number of students who actually graduate from teacher education is decreasing and that the number of drop-outs from education is sky high. Increasing the number of places in teacher training is not the solution to the shortage of teachers, but more needs to be done. There is a statistical link between drop-out and upper secondary school grades. Students admitted to teacher education with low upper secondary school grades drop out to a greater extent. So increasing the number of places in teacher training is not the answer. I would like to ask Minister Ernkrans what measures she is prepared to take to improve the quality and reduce the number of drop-outs from teacher training.
i-655963132ff88907-442	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question. It is clear that we should ensure that we have a teacher education that delivers and examines really good teachers, because it needs Swedish school. This is something that is pointed out in our new middle cooperation between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Centre Party and the Liberals, and we will deliver on that. We shall ensure that the requirements and quality are increased. We will strengthen methodology, and practice and theory will be brought closer together. You should be able to study and work at the same time, and there will be more ways into the teaching profession. This is a work that we have started, and we will come back to this House with wise and good proposals on how to tackle improved teacher training. However, I am convinced that in the 100 million more we spend on higher education compared to 2018, there are important educational opportunities for our teachers, which we should be careful about.
i-655963132ff88907-446	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to ask Matilda Ernkrans my question. According to a study that has come, women generally have higher education than men but lower income. This particular study looks at people born in 1985, that is, quite young people, and it turns out that 41% of women and 27% of men have higher education, i.e. at post-secondary level. But when you look at the same group of income, it turns out that women have 248 000 per year and men 341 000 per year on average. I think this is a serious gender equality problem. This makes it difficult for women to make a living, despite high levels of education, and for us not to take advantage of women's skills. What can the government do to try to reverse this trend?
i-655963132ff88907-449	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question. This simply shows that the work on gender equality is not finished and that we have more to do. For decades we have been training more women than men at our colleges and universities, and when we look at it we still see that too few women go on to become professors. If we look at the labour market, we see that women have lower wages. I am convinced that the government needs to continue working on gender mainstreaming, and we have said that we will. It is a way not to let the gender equality issue in anything besides it is something we should actively work with all the time, in all areas. When it comes to academia and what I am responsible for – the universities we have – I also think we need to look at such things as terms of employment and job security. We can help improve not least those parts, and we can continue to have a strong commitment to higher education and research.
i-655963132ff88907-453	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Climate and the Environment. In the Stockholm region the groundwater level is far below normal already, which can lead to major problems not least out on the islands in our archipelago. Today, municipalities that have taken or intend to take measures to prevent natural disasters in built-up areas can apply for grants for these measures. Natural disasters in this context refer toslides, collapse or flooding, but do not include measures to deal with water scarcity or drought. After last year's drought, I wonder if the Government and the Government could consider extending the purpose clause to include measures to deal with water scarcity and drought.
i-655963132ff88907-456	Madam President, I would like Thank you for bringing up a very important subject, Alexandra Anstrell! The drought and the unexpectedly long heat period we had last summer have led to low water levels in our larger warehouses all over the country. Even now, after the winter, they haven't been refilled. The Government set aside SEK 200 million in the spring change budget for the restoration of wetlands, which is nature's own way to store and clean rainwater and keep water in the ground. We also have the adaptation strategy and special budget allocation to make sure that Göta River is safe, which is an important water supplier for the entire Västra Götaland region.
i-655963132ff88907-459	Madam President, I would like The supply of skills is one of our employers' absolute biggest nuts to crack. Both the business community and the public sector are screaming for highly trained staff. The government has done much to increase the number of training places at different levels, but more training places are needed for all young people – for example the three prao pupils from Norberg who are in the gallery today – to be able to train and for employers to find the skills they are looking for. It was gratifying that the Prime Minister announced in September that Sweden needs a new technical university. I very much agree with that, and I hope it will end up in Mälardalen. There we have Mälardalen University, which is excellent in terms of collaboration with both industry and the public sector and has internationally recognised high-level research. My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. What are the Government's plans for a new technical university to see the light of day in Mälardalen?
i-655963132ff88907-462	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. We fully agree: If Sweden is to be a leading knowledge nation and one of the world's leading research countries, we must continue to develop our higher education and research. In a modern knowledge society, there has also been a discussion about whether we need a new technical university. Here, Mälardalen University has been mentioned, not least by the Prime Minister himself during the last term of office. It is no secret that we Social Democrats think this would be important and correct, but we must be very careful to say that this requires continued investment in Swedish research and education. Setting up a university is also something that the whole government must then come back to in an organised form, for example when we present a new research policy. But it is something that the whole government must then come back to.
i-655963132ff88907-465	I would like to remind both ministers and Members that we are not talking in the speaker's seat but addressing each other with first and last names. This also applies to a general comment during Question Time.
i-655963132ff88907-466	Madam President, I would like I will take this opportunity to talk about something that many others in committee have talked about during this debate. This is something that we should not have to talk about and which should belong in the landfill of society, far away and far down: violence in close relations and violence against women. Last year, there were over 13 000 police reports of violence against women, an increase of 32 per cent compared with the previous year. One in four women is subjected to violence in close relationships, and one in seven children is affected – that is, the beating or seeing her mother beaten – according to criminologist Nina Rung. The worst of all is that about 20 – I think the latest figure is 22 – women die every year because of this, and it may not even be at the actual time of abuse, but much later. I think we are all equally concerned by the documentary about Josefin Nilsson. When you listen to the circumstances in this case, you wonder why the offender is not behind bars only because of the threats he has made to Josefin Nilsson. For this reason, there are many with me who have previously exercised about a lex Lotta. When this happens – when women are killed – and it is investigated, it has turned out back in time that these women have actually in some way asked for help. They have signalled that they are living under this oppression. Yet society has not succeeded, and women have lost their lives. Lex Lotta is about compulsory cooperation between authorities to prevent this and the appointment of an accident commission. So I, too, have exercised this exercise. Indeed, the motion is being rejected, and I am buying it because it has been partially implemented. I am very pleased that the government has listened to the criticisms over the years and has in fact partially introduced such legislation. The basis for this was set out in 2018 in the report Breaking violent behaviour – relapse prevention for men who expose their loved ones to violence. This report proposed the introduction of a new confidentiality-breaking rule to prevent serious crime against persons. For example, through this provision, social and health services would be able to provide information on individuals to the police. However, the investigation also stated that it would not be an obligation but that social services would, after all, be able to choose in individual cases whether they were ready to disclose information. This is insane, Madam President. However, in the new law that came into force from this year on – the law on investigations to prevent certain injuries and deaths – I can see, however, that a new rule on professional secrecy has been introduced. It is proposed to amend the regulation of this obligation of professional secrecy in order to ensure that the confidentiality of the unaltered nature of the damage is in line with the duty. I assume that this will apply from now on and that all the authorities – social services, health services and perhaps, in the long term, schools and other authorities – will cooperate in investigating cases of abuse and violence against women. As I said, it is a good thing that the law on cooperation between authorities has been laid down. But in the proposal that applies from this year, there is one thing that is very strange. This applies only to crimes that are expected to be punished for more than a year. I think this sounds crazy, Madam President. This means that if a man assaults a woman, the new law does not investigate it with binding cooperation and reporting authorities between them if the penalty is expected to be in one year. This means that a woman can still lose her life the next time the person abuses someone, which one might have avoided if one had known that this person was actually so violent and so dangerous to his environment. The new law is about authorities to cooperate and about authorities to provide information in the case that is otherwise classified. This should, of course, apply if not all offences so in any case the offences that will receive an expected penalty in nine months' time. In this way, crimes with the title of gross women's freedom and illegal coercion are also included. There is infinitely more to say about this, but this is a detail. Although steps have been taken to better respond to men who abuse women, there is still to be done. I am pleased that the government has taken these steps, but we will monitor and work to make the legislation even safer. Like my colleague, Mr Jonny, I therefore call for reservation 33.
i-655963132ff88907-480	Madam President, I would like The Moderates have stood up for European cooperation since 1961. We took the battle for Sweden to apply for membership and for Sweden to belong in Europe. We believe in international cooperation. Through cooperation and trade, peace, security and democracy are achieved. In the history books we can read about how Europe has turned out when countries have done the opposite – when cooperation is exchanged for conflict, when trade is exchanged for walls, when security is exchanged for persecution and when democracy is exchanged for oppression. I do not want to see such a Europe again, and for that we all have a responsibility. At the same time, there is a legitimate debate about what the European Union should be. What started as a peace project is expanding into too large a supranational colossus where federalist and socialist forces are joining forces in trying to expand the EU's influence. I and the Moderates do not want to see such a European Union. Madam President, I would like While the federalists and socialists are putting strength on a social pillar, we see a growing, cross-border problem in which the EU can provide effective solutions rather than lack of clarity. Some types of cross-border crime require deeper cooperation, such as international terrorism. The Moderates therefore welcome the Commission's initiative to extend the powers of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, Eppo, to international terrorism. The Moderates want Sweden to take a more active role in restoring security and security in Europe, and we therefore want Sweden to participate in the European Public Prosecutor's cooperation. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved.
i-655963132ff88907-485	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are fundamentally very positive about cooperation within the EU between independent states and independent authorities to combat international and cross-border problems. As far as the European Public Prosecutor's Office is concerned, we have had a rather broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament that a common and supranational public prosecutor's office violates the principle of subsidiarity. That is a line that we also maintain in this work on cross-border terrorism. We believe that the way forward is not to divide the acquired competence of the national authorities, to renounce responsibility on the part of Sweden and to add hope to some form of joint supranational body. We believe that the way forward in combating cross-border terrorism is to strengthen our national authorities and increase cooperation through the existing forms of cooperation and cooperation bodies. That's the way forward. Being part of a supranational public prosecutor's office risks making it more unclear who is responsible for what issue, and it risks reducing the skills that are in place in our national authorities. We are fundamentally behind the line taken by the committee in its opinion, but we also have a motivational reservation which says that we want to be out of the question of any supranationality when it comes to the task of the public prosecutor. In this case, we therefore choose to agree to our reservation of reasons.
i-655963132ff88907-488	Madam President, I would like The EU has major problems with international terrorism and cross-border crime, and it is high time that Sweden took a more active role in restoring security in Europe. It is correct that in the past we Christian Democrats have been critical of Swedish participation in Eppo, but the development of society has made us change our minds. We now believe that Sweden should participate in the European Public Prosecutor's cooperation. Some types of cross-border crime require deeper and more operational law enforcement cooperation than has been the case in the past. In order to be able to influence this collaboration, Swedish participation is required. We Christian Democrats want to step up police cooperation in Europe and strengthen the EU's external border. Furthermore, Sweden, as an active part of Eppo, should work to ensure that cooperation will continue to include, in addition to financial crime, terrorist crime. At the moment, we are one of the few countries in Europe that are outside cooperation. We believe that Sweden should become a member of Eppo and participate fully in the work. Madam President, I would like I can see that there is a change of opinion on this issue. Last week Stefan Löfven spoke to the European Parliament and stated in his speech that the government will now recommend that Sweden join Eppo. This recommendation will be given to the Riksdag. In the light of this, one might wonder what is the line of the Social Democrats because they have not worked in this direction in the Committee on Justice. It will be interesting to hear when it is the turn of the Social Democrats here in the pulpit and the Member Joakim Sandell will speak. What is the current line of the Social Democrats? Will accession to the EPPO be recommended or not? And if one advocates accession, does it relate to economic issues or will one also speak in favour of including the work against terrorist crime? I look forward with interest to getting clarity on this issue. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats see it as important to join Eppo and also to include the work against terror in the mission. In the light of this, I support reservation 1.
i-655963132ff88907-493	Madam President, I would like Now we are having a debate on our common future in Europe. For us Liberals, it is quite obvious that if we have borderless crime, we must have cross-border law enforcement. It is gratifying to take part in closed roses opening up and think that this collaboration with the prosecutor is good. It is gratifying that buttoned Moderates also wake up and think it is important to cooperate with the prosecutor. It is also gratifying that, here, between this spring's longing and the winter's cold, the anemones are opening up – I am thinking of the Christian Democrats – and now see the importance of a common European law enforcement in the area of terrorism. The terrorist threat, if anything, is of course, Madam President, precisely cross-border. We can take what is on everyone's lips right now as an example, namely the terrible terror that we have seen taking place in the so-called caliphate of the Islamic State. When these people remain in different cells and come back to Europe, it is quite obvious that we must work together in the European Union to combat these very badly ill criminals and ensure that we prevent threats from arising. We have been in the European Union for almost 20 years now – and Sweden has been supporting this for all these years – a cooperation within the ECTC, which is part of Europol, which in turn is the European joint cooperation against terrorism. It is about preventing and protecting against terrorism and persecuting these terrorists and acting immediately when you see that something is going on. This cooperation exists between the police authorities and Europol, which is currently acting on a cross-border basis. But now it is time for this power also to be given to the running company in Eppo and in our common Europe. It goes without saying to us Liberals. I would like to refer to the debate we had before lunch in this House, Madam President. At that time we were talking about criminal law, and then there were a great many Members, colleagues of mine, who were committed and said that we must fight crime and have proper penalties and so on. Yes, but it is even more important that we can actually use the existing legislation and that together we can expose the networks and activities that are cross-border and that want to destroy our common Europe. Then we must act together, and that is why this cooperation with the prosecution is extremely important. I am pleased that more people want to participate, and I am pleased that many people are now looking forward to the fact that terrorism can also be a task for the prosecutors to work together to clear up more crimes and ensure that more people who want to blow up our democracy, our part of the world, are actually locked up. That is why I welcome this. The Swedish democrats are once again completely naked when it comes to having effective cooperation to combat cross-border crime. They want to hide behind national rules and say that we should not cooperate. Madam President, I would like I would also like to endorse our reservation 3.
i-655963132ff88907-500	Madam President, I would like I want to thank you for the address that motivated me to take a line. The Liberals and the Swedish Democrats have been quite clear on each side of this issue, as each other's clear opponents, in terms of supranationality and national responsibility. When I listen to Johan Pehrson and the Liberals, it sounds like there is no cooperation at all today. Cooperation is the very basis of the proposal, according to Johan Pehrson. This is not a question of cooperation. It is a question of transferring power to a supranational body. Cooperation exists today, and it works well. Good cooperation also requires that we have strong national authorities. This is therefore regrettable, as Mr Pehrson has been critical of the Social Democratic Government, which has underfunded the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office and the Swedish police. That is the basis for the cooperation that is to take place. The complaints we have received from Europol are that we have too little police resources reserved for cooperation through Europol. Then you cannot vote for a Social Democratic Minister of Justice who under-finances the police department and snatchs a quarter of a billion from the police department once you get the chance. The Liberals and the Swedish Democrats have absolutely different entrances. Better cooperation is achieved only by taking national responsibility instead of hoping that someone else will solve the problem for us. The crimes that occur in Sweden are to be investigated by Swedish prosecutors and the Swedish police. We, as politicians in Sweden, must take responsibility for ensuring that those authorities have the right resources to carry out that task. This is the only way to build strong cooperation in Europe.
i-655963132ff88907-506	Madam President, I would like Member Marttinen is digging deeper and deeper into the provincial well. I don't know how far he's gonna get. But it just gets darker and darker and lonely and lonely down there. With your logic, Adam Marttinen, it is completely incomprehensible that we in Sweden have a national police officer. This means that we have a national police force that acts throughout Sweden. As you know, we used to have regional police and police districts. But we have centralised this in order to gain more power in law enforcement in Sweden. I would like to come back and ask a straight question about cross-border, borderless, crime. Does Mr Marttinen and the Swedish Democrats not think that it is a good thing that we have effective, operational cooperation to power up and knock out these terror cells? Don't you think we're doing better together with Finland, with Denmark, with France and with Holland? Together, we are strong. Do you know what we are if we're alone, Adam Marttinen? Then we're just alone.
i-655963132ff88907-510	Madam President, I would like There has never been a talk of us being isolated or alone. On the contrary, the Swedish Democrats have been in favour of all forms of cooperation between independent national states in Europe when it comes to cross-border work against crime. Mr Pehrson makes it sound like you have to do everything supranationally to succeed in cooperating. It's completely misunderstood and distorted. I think that Mr Pehrson is misleading the voters when he says that it is a question of cooperation. Is there cooperation today? Cooperation requires the existence of effective national authorities. No one can come from outside and say that we in Sweden should have a public prosecutor who is operating from another country. In that case, it is of course Swedish prosecutors, Swedish police officers who will be assigned to work on the basis of a supranational mandate. But it still requires that we have strong national authorities in essence. That is why I am surprised that we can support a red-green government that under-finances the Swedish authorities, that we can lower confidence on a national basis and then start calling for outside help. The only way to combat cross-border terrorism and crime is to have independent strong nations taking their own responsibility. Member Pehrson and I have a responsibility to distribute resources in Sweden to Swedish authorities in the right way, so that our authorities can help combat the international terrorism that is operated on from Sweden in other countries. That's where we have our responsibilities. And that's where the responsibility should lie. Hoping for someone else to do the job for us, I think it's useless.
i-655963132ff88907-515	Madam President, I would like On the issue of funding, it is only to be repeated that we stated yesterday that we are sending 820 million more to the Swedish judiciary for 2019 compared to the Moderate and Christian Democrats budget, which Adam Marttinen released. It had great merit. But we added 820 million. It must nevertheless be said to be a substantial amount. That would, above all, be enough for a great many prosecutors, if that is what Adam Marttinen longs for. The International Public Prosecutor's Office in Sweden, which works against terrorist crimes, and the counterparts throughout the European countries, together state that they have limited resources. They can see differences in legislation, and they want greater cooperation at European level. If we work together within the European Union, we can fight with greater force this type of crime, which is a threat to our entire democratic foundation. It is therefore sad to see that the nationalist forces that are so strong around Europe, and that the Swedish Democrats are a strong fanbearer of in our Parliament, want to oppose this cooperation. It is about creating security and prosperity on a common basis within the EU. We need the enhanced cooperation of the prosecutors. It must include terrorism. I promise Mr Marttinen that we will meet on the streets and squares in the coming months. Good luck explaining how to dig deeper into your provincial pit!
i-655963132ff88907-519	Madam President, I would like We have today to consider a communication from the European Commission on extending the powers of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, EPPO, to include cross-border terrorist offences. So we do not have to deal with a possible Swedish membership of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I would like to begin by pointing out that we agree with the Commission's and the Government's view that terrorism is one of the greatest challenges facing our open societies. We agree with the view that Europe must take decisive action to solve the problem. However, we are doubtful that extending EPPO's powers to include terrorist offences is the most effective solution for dealing with the threat of terrorism. In view of the fact that EPPO's initial task has been to combat financial crime, we believe that a deeper analysis of what enlargement would mean is needed. We believe that the Commission has failed to demonstrate that the fight against terrorism can best be achieved at Union level and not by the Member States themselves. There is already extensive cooperation within the EU to respond jointly to the threat of terrorism, for example through Europol and Eurojust. We also believe that the extension of EPPO's powers is so far-reaching that it is necessary to question whether the measures go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objective of the initiative. We believe that it is possible, through existing intergovernmental work, for example through the aforementioned work in Eurojust and Europol, to achieve the objective of jointly combating terrorism. EPPO shall be established by the end of 2020. Until then, an administration needs to be built up and other organisational measures need to be implemented. Although Sweden is currently outside the scope of cooperation, we believe that EPPO should be set up before an extension of powers is envisaged. Finally, we note that there is no concrete proposal from the Commission regarding the possible extension of the EPPO, which is why we believe it is premature to adopt a final position on this enlargement. With regard to Sweden's participation in Eppo, we maintain our position that we do not exclude participation at a later date.
i-655963132ff88907-527	Madam President, I would like I just want to clarify. I wonder very much about the benefits of this prosecution cooperation on cross-border terrorism. Säpo is very clear that there is a great risk of having to disclose sensitive information to Eppo. The intelligence services in Europe are already working very well today. It would be more damaging to have to disclose sensitive information to a European Public Prosecutor's Office. I just wanted to clarify this.
i-655963132ff88907-531	Madam President, I would like We were supposed to debate the Constitutional Committee's report on motion responses on public access, confidentiality and integrity. It looks like we are a decimated group, but we have to do what we can to highlight the matter. So we are dealing with various forms of exercise and demands from the general exercise period. I am going to talk, above all, about the reservation that the Left Party has in relation to this. In Sweden we have a tradition of being able to follow the money we use in public operations. We also usually have the principle that when you hand out money to other businesses it should be public. You should be able to examine how different agencies and authorities use their money and also what the money is used for when you leave it to someone else. Every year, relatively large sums are paid out in part in respect of employment aid. This money goes to private companies. This is tax money that we use to enable people who are far from the labour market to enter it. The Left Party believes that it is reasonable to look at how this money is used. What companies get this money? How do you get them? What forms of employment support are used? Do you do it consistently or not? This is important in order to be able to review the proper use of the money. Often it is argued from all parties that we should really review the proper use of our money. But in this particular context, when the money is spent on employment support in private companies, it is certainly a matter of confidentiality. You can't see how the companies do it. Of course, you can't keep everything open at all times. The integrity of individuals is very important in this context, that is, in the case of individuals for whom companies receive employment support. But in many places there is a perception that it may be companies that abuse this. Even for these companies, it would be good if it could be illustrated that the money to be used for employment support is not used incorrectly. The Left Party says we should have an exception. It should be possible to see how the money is used. It's more important than keeping business interests secret. Public transparency is a priority area. That is why I support Amendment No 5.
i-655963132ff88907-538	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to stress that I naturally support all the Liberals' reservations in the report, but for the time to come, I am only referring to reservation 4 in paragraph 5 and I therefore support it. Madam President, I would like Thanks to EU cooperation, we can travel, study and live throughout Europe. In addition, our corner of the world is much more peaceful and secure. Together, we European countries become a strong force in the world and a voice to count on. The European Union was and is a victory for democracy, freedom and openness, but it is values that can never be taken for granted. Democracy must be won every day by every generation, every election and every debate. For confidence in politics and democracy to increase, democratic institutions must also be developed in such a way as to strengthen openness and freedom and increase efficiency. The Europe of Liberals is an open and democratic Europe with strong and transparent processes. This means that Europe must be a democratic example. This means that every citizen has the right to expect good transparency in EU decision-making processes and effective accountability. It should be clear to the citizens of all EU countries how laws are made, by whom they are made, how the discussions have gone, what positions there are and who is responsible for doing so. It also means that lobbyists' work must be transparent in order to guarantee civil confidence in the legislative process. The EU's principle of public access must be strengthened, and the main rule in all areas must be that public access, not confidentiality, is natural. It's the first choice. Today it is as if it is exactly the opposite: confidentiality is the starting point, and transparency may come. In fact, the process of increasing access to documents on the ground has stopped completely within the Union, and this process must be resumed and speeded up. Madam President, I would like Today tens of thousands of people are working to influence the EU's various institutions, just as hundreds are working to influence us here in Parliament and our Swedish democratic institutions at different levels. It is a natural part of the democratic process, and that is a good thing. But it is important that this work is done in a transparent and orderly manner so that everyone sees what it is all about. All lobbyists working towards the European institutions should therefore, in our election, be listed in a public register. That is exactly how it should be here in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Liberals want to increase accountability. All too often governments can say one thing in Brussels and then something completely different at home in the Member State. This makes it impossible for democratic accountability to function. All EU governments, when negotiating in the Council of Ministers, must have a clear mandate from their parliaments and have processes that we have here in our Parliament. We also believe that these negotiations should essentially be open when legislation is being discussed so that the processes are transparent and understandable to all citizens. The common thread between the home country and the EU's legislative power must become whole and transparent. Madam President, I would like Liberals say unequivocally 'yes' to Europe when others hesitate, complain or want to back out. On the contrary, we want more cooperation and enhanced cooperation, because it is only together with others that we can resolve the really big issues: the climate crisis, the security issues that the previous debate was about, the jobs, the fight against crime and our joint responsibility for the world's refugees. We have no time to lose. The EU must take the lead in many of these works. Madam President, I would like The ultimate question is: What will our common future look like? Soon, every European country has its own nationalists and extremists who spread hatred, lies and fear. If they get what they want, much of the freedom and openness that we have become accustomed to disappears. Borders are closed and cooperation stops. But all over Europe, many people want something quite different – liberal people taking the fight for openness, freedom and a European future in which we together solve the challenges. But then the European institutions must also be transparent and transparent. The harder we work to get more cooperation, the harder we also work towards that transparency. Precisely because we like Europe so much, we also have the most ideas on how to make it even better.
i-655963132ff88907-552	Madam President, I would like Yesterday the European Council met at an extraordinary meeting to discuss the situation on the Brexit issue once again. In the run-up to the meeting, we were in a situation where Britain was in danger of leaving the EU without an agreement as early as the night of Saturday. Such a scenario has now been avoided with the agreement reached. The meeting began with Prime Minister May reporting on the state of play of the negotiations now taking place between the British Government and the Labour opposition party. The Prime Minister considered that there were conditions for reaching an agreement to allow for an orderly exit but that more time was needed. She stressed the uniqueness of the situation and that the talks now taking place in Parliament are extraordinary in a British context. She was also clear that it is intended to conduct the European elections in the event of a need to remain in the EU after 22 May. After his statement, the Prime Minister left the meeting. There followed a discussion on how we from the EU-27 would respond to Theresa Mays's request for an extension to 13 June. There were different views at the meeting about how long the extension would be, and it was around this that most of the evening's and night's discussions revolved. I would like to emphasise that although there were different views on the extension period itself, everyone shared the same basic interest: to facilitate an orderly exit while safeguarding the EU's fundamental interests. The agreement finally reached between the EU-27 and the UK extends to 31 October with an evaluation of the situation at the June European Council. Should the withdrawal agreement be ratified earlier than 31 October, the withdrawal will take place on the first day of the following month. The reason why it was 31 October is linked to the fact that the new Commission is supposed to take office the day after 1 November. It will thus be a natural breakpoint in the work of the European Union. The agreement also states that if the United Kingdom does not organise elections to the European Parliament, the withdrawal will automatically take place on 1 June. The agreement also emphasises that the withdrawal agreement cannot be renegotiated but that changes can be made to the declaration on the future relationship in the event of a development of the British position. This could, for example, be a customs union with the EU or a closer connection with the EU's internal market. It is also made clear that the United Kingdom as an outgoing Member State should act in accordance with the principle of loyal cooperation. Madam President, I would like It is good that we have now reached this agreement. I cannot stress enough how important it is for everyone, not only for all British, but also for all Swedes throughout the EU with an orderly exit. This is important for students, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, employees and many more. At the same time, the internal work of the European Union must not be hampered by the lock-up in the British Parliament. We have now spent two years negotiating. We are still without a ratified agreement. The EU is soon facing a new legislative period and must devote time and energy to other important things such as creating more and better jobs, solving the migration issue and meeting the climate threat. It is therefore essential that the negotiations conducted in London produce results so that the withdrawal agreement can be approved and we have an orderly Brexit. This also provides a good basis for a close and strong future relationship between the EU and the United Kingdom. That, Madam President, concludes my report from yesterday's meeting.
i-9rDPU8rUhSmXVovP94h5ot	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for reporting back! Let me be clear that we in the Moderates think it is incredibly important that yesterday's meeting could avoid a disorderly Brexit. Throughout the Brexit negotiations, the Moderates have stressed the importance of ensuring that British withdrawals are as orderly as possible, primarily for the sake of the inhabitants, but also for the 100 000 Swedes living in the UK and also the thousands of British people living in Sweden or in other EU countries. Another important aspect of the withdrawal being as arranged as possible is the ability of Swedish companies to continue trading with the UK in a smooth way. It is about thousands of jobs that depend on Sweden's exports to the UK. The choice of the British to leave European cooperation is precisely the choice of the British. But it does, of course, play a role in the popularity of the EU what it actually does. A Europe that is relevant should no one want to leave. That is to say, a Europe that delivers solutions to cross-border problems that Member States cannot solve. These include the issue of migration, where the EU still does not have a sustainable policy in place. It is about terrorism and international theft leagues, which must be vigorously combated. It is also about the climate issue, where the EU can really play a crucial role. My question to the Prime Minister, Madam President, concerns how he sees the way forward now. The responsibility for Brexit is primarily British, but does the Prime Minister see that at this point he and the government can do something else, something more, for the withdrawal to be as arranged as possible? It is incredibly important for the 100 000 Swedes who live in the UK and for all Swedish companies that depend on trade with the UK.
i-655963132ff88907-568	Madam President, I would like The government has since day one worked with the UK and the EU to get an orderly exit and has, to the best of its ability, contributed to achieving a pragmatic solution, all the time taking into account and responsibility for the interests of the EU so that we do not harm them. That is why, among other things, we were also given a mandate on the EU Board to be flexible in terms of the extension of the time until the withdrawal that the British wanted. I have had a number of bilateral talks with Prime Minister May, and we from the Swedish side have engaged in various groupings in the EU in order to get an orderly exit. This agreement is, in my view, a step forward, but we can never guarantee, of course, that it is now working and that the discussion taking place in London leads to a result – it only governs those parties. However, it sounds like there is a certain possibility of success. This is also what is new in this situation and which made it easier for many, who might otherwise have been against an extension, to accept it anyway. We have a partially new situation with an ongoing dialogue between Tories and Labour. The government has been working on this since day one, and we continue and will do what we can. Finally, however, as I said, the EU-27 Member States must not act in such a way as to harm ourselves and future EU work. We continue to work on getting an orderly exit.
i-655963132ff88907-572	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. The consequences of Brexit are difficult to grasp, but an obvious risk is that Sweden may lose influence in the EU when our most important partner now leaves the Union. This calls for the government to have a more active and clear EU policy than has been the case over the past five years. Sweden's influence in the EU also depends on us being an example and inspiring other Member States. Our influence risks weakening when other EU countries see that we do not manage our own border protection and the issue of returning IS terrorists in a confidence-provoking way, as well as the fact that Sweden actually has the lowest per capita growth in the EU, to name but a few problem areas. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask the Prime Minister how he views the risk of Sweden losing influence. What's his plan for this not to happen?
i-655963132ff88907-575	Madam President, I would like This was, in part, a domestic policy intervention. I think that the EU line is clear and should be so. Sweden counts as an important player in the EU. We are involved not only in formal EU cooperation but also in various groupings of countries with similar views. It is true that Britain has belonged to this group of countries, but this continues. We are of course part of the group of Nordic and Baltic countries; there are six countries. In addition, we are working with Ireland, Holland, Germany and also with the southern countries. There is, therefore, always such a dialogue, where Sweden is counted as a very active player and so should be. We concentrate on jobs and ensure that they become more and better and on the social dimension. We will ensure that we manage climate change and work for more security for our citizens.
i-655963132ff88907-578	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. This is more and more similar to some kind of never-ending story that we will have to deal with here in Parliament as well. To be clear again, the Swedish Democrats support both the Government's and the Council's efforts to avoid a disorderly withdrawal. Today it is difficult to see how Theresa May will be able to get through the exit agreement in the House of Commons. According to the reports that have come today from Question Time in Parliament, there is no indication that Labour and Conservatives have approached each other. This is a regrettable situation. I was going to ask the Prime Minister about the addition that the European Council decided yesterday about how the UK should behave in the European Council during the withdrawal period. This is somewhat contradictory. It is clear that the UK has full rights and obligations and is allowed to participate in the work and vote, but at the same time they must behave loyally. Has the Council defined this in any way? Does Britain have the right to veto? Are they allowed to vote against proposals, or are they expected to be low? Is it understood that this is how Britain should behave in the future?
i-655963132ff88907-582	Madam President, I would like I agree with the image of a never-ending story – this has been going on for a long time. It is good that the Swedish Democrats have changed their minds and think it is good to be a member of the EU. Not least now we see what is actually at stake. How Britain should behave is also a balancing act. As long as Britain is a member, you have all the duties and rights. At the same time, we have decided to withdraw, and then the question is whether, until then, we can use the rights of membership to act in a way that is detrimental to the organisation to be left behind. This is not a subject of dispute in that the United Kingdom would have expressed this. Prime Minister May has made it clear that they have no such ambition. However, several have wished to have indicated that the two parties agree on this, because otherwise the rights could be misused. So there is no list of what to do and what not to do, but this is an agreement between two parties where both agree that the membership period should be used in a way that is loyal to the organization.
i-655963132ff88907-586	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your answer and have nothing to add.
i-QsXL8y3AJ3kvkEx6E6DxsY	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for reporting back! Politics is the art of the possible is a quote that is well attributed to Olof Palme, but before then Otto von Bismarck. You can think about whether it belongs in a situation where they had a referendum and got a result that they did not really agree on what to do with, or whether it is about what is needed in the future to solve this. When the Prime Minister was with us on the EU Council last Wednesday, I had some questions related to the practical. Is there a number of decisions that need to be taken if the UK is left over the European Parliament elections, as regards both Parliament and the incoming Commission? It feels like that's what was taken into account when the date was set for October 31st. It is, of course, an important part if there is somewhere to be further decisions to make this possible. The second question concerns the June evaluation. What is to be evaluated if the UK is still there? What should give a bu or a ba or show if you are on the right path? What is this opportunity supposed to be used for?
i-655963132ff88907-590	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that we need to start preparing for the European Parliament elections now, and that is what has been reported to have happened. It must be implemented if you are a member after 22 May; this is self-written. Later there will also be nominations of Commissioners and so on. We do not know exactly what that process will look like, whether or not one will choose to propose someone. But they all have rights until they are no longer members. It's a little up to Britain, isn't it? The June evaluation aims to look at the situation from time to time and whether something domestic has happened in the UK. We don't know that. It may be another picture that makes it either more likely or less likely that there will be an orderly exit. It is good for us to see it already in June. But no decision should be taken in June, but it will come later. If, in October, the United Kingdom has not ratified an agreement or withdrawn its application under Article 50 – it must also do so – it is starting to look difficult in real terms. It is more about being able to form an idea of whether something has changed and what the political situation looks like in Britain. That is the purpose.
i-655963132ff88907-594	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply.
i-655963132ff88907-595	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Prime Minister for reporting back from the summit. We in the Left Party also think it is important that there should be an organised withdrawal for Britain. It is well three that we give it a little more time so that there will be order and order. At least Prime Minister Theresa May is now talking to opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn. That's good. It would have been desirable that those talks had already started two years ago, but now it is happening anyway. First of all, I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question about the need for Britain to take part in the European Parliament elections in May. I believe that Theresa May asked the EU leaders to be able to leave the EU by the end of June, precisely with the idea of not having to take part in the European Parliament elections, because then the new European Parliament has not yet met. Now Britain is likely to be forced to participate in the European Parliament elections. Then I wonder what is actually happening to the Swedish extra mandate that we would receive when the British mandates disappear. And what happens to that mandate if Britain then leaves the Union in the autumn? Will the 73 British mandates then be returned to the other EU countries, will we get an extra mandate in Sweden, and if so, who will that mandate be? I'd like to know. Then it is interesting to think about what happens if there are new elections in the UK, which is very likely. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that there will be no new negotiations for a new withdrawal agreement for Britain when we know that many who steam on and want to become Prime Minister in Britain do not want to work very loyally, constructively and responsibly as stated in the decision? Can the Prime Minister guarantee that there will be no new negotiations for a new exit agreement?
i-655963132ff88907-600	Madam President, I would like As for the talks between May and Corbyn, I can share Jens Holm's view. They themselves say that it is unique to sit down and talk that way. I guess if we in Sweden had had a referendum on withdrawal, it would have been the first thing we would have done, but this is unique. This type of conversation has not taken place since World War II. The May elections are important first and foremost to ensure the legitimacy of the European Parliament so that there is no doubt about it. That's why you have to be a member. This would have been the case regardless of whether the date had been June 30th or what was now. Precisely what happens to the various mandates, I cannot answer here and now, but it is clear that it will be hopeful. That uncertainty exists for all countries – how many mandates do they actually have? That issue was also discussed and needs to be clarified. Several, including the Prime Minister of Croatia, addressed this issue. This uncertainty exists. Can I guarantee that there will be no new negotiations? Yes, there is a consensus between the EU-27. There will be no renegotiation of the withdrawal agreement, but there will be no renegotiation. That is also how the discussion between the British Government and Labour has been set up. The exit agreement is fixed, and what is being discussed is the future relationship. Without going into detail on it, I can say that it is about the main direction to choose. Labour proposes customs union while the government says customs cooperation. It's something like that. That is one of the issues under discussion. But the withdrawal agreement itself is negotiated and ready, and there will be no renegotiation.
i-655963132ff88907-604	Madam President, I would like Nor do I think it is a very successful idea to tear everything up and negotiate a new exit agreement, but I would like to remind you that if you have an election, you will elect a new parliament, which will appoint a new government with a new Prime Minister. This gives the new leadership a new mandate. At least I imagine that is the reasoning of the United Kingdom. That is what would be the whole point of a new election in Britain, isn't it? Let me warn you that I'm not quite sure we've written the last page of this story. Then I do not know whether it is so successful to force the British to have an EU parliamentary election that no one there really wants. I do not think it strengthens the legitimacy of the European institutions that they first have an election and appoint Members who will never serve a single day in the new elected assembly. Then it might have been better that they had not been allowed to arrange the election and that we in Sweden can get the extra mandate instead.
i-655963132ff88907-606	Madam President, I would like On the last point, I would like to say straight away that it would be risking our own. It must never go so far as to hurt ourselves in cooperation in order to get Britain's exit. If you as a Member State do not have elections, the legitimacy of the whole European Parliament is at risk. That would be the worst of roads. There we must be clearly formal. The British have accepted that, too. I agree that this is going to be a strange situation. That's it. But we cannot risk the legitimacy of the European institutions and our own. It wouldn't be smart if I put it that way. With regard to the elections in Britain and who is going to be Prime Minister, it is Parliament that must take a stand. That is why the parties are now having discussions – so that Parliament can take a decision with a sufficiently broad majority.
i-655963132ff88907-609	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. We all agree that we want an orderly exit, but it doesn't feel very arranged, actually. It feels very disorderly all of it, especially from the British side. Very little was thought through when the referendum was held. I think it is good that the time for tea was set longer than 31 October. After all, we had some discussion on this in the EU Council. The budget and other things are to be adopted with the new Commission in the autumn. With the time involved, the British will, I suppose, be able to take decisions on the President of the Commission, Commissioners, the President-in-Office of the Council and other important things. Although they have promised not to make a mess for Europe, they will be involved in a great many important decisions. There are two things I would like to ask you specifically. After all, the European Council says that the withdrawal agreement should not be negotiated. Nevertheless, we are ready to reconsider the political declaration. Can the Prime Minister say what this means a little more concretely? What can you do there to get Britain to move forward? Theresa May says that perhaps the British should only remain in the Customs Union. If so, what is needed to get this in place?
i-655963132ff88907-613	Madam President, I would like I share the split picture of whether it's arranged or disorderly. As for the timing, some argued for an even longer deadline until March next year. Then the argument was that there is no decisive vote throughout the time in question. The budget has been hoped by some that we will be able to vote on this autumn. That has been our ambition, but there are many who believe that it will not last and that there will not be a vote this autumn. The long-term advocates therefore felt that there were no dangerous, important decisions that needed to be taken unanimously during the present period. But otherwise, with regard to the decisions in which the United Kingdom participates, they are now sitting in the meetings on the budget but never asking for the floor and saying nothing about the forthcoming budget. I can imagine that similar action can be taken on other issues as well. You may be in the room but you do not participate because you have the intention to leave the EU – or you may be able to do it in some other way that does not destroy. It is clear, once again, from both Theresa May and Parliament that after this they want a good relationship with the European Union. Then there is no reason now to destroy or make it more difficult for the EU. With regard to the political declaration on future relations, there will also be no negotiation in detail about what it should look like, but on the other hand one chooses a main track here. Now they're both on something to do with customs. If we then agree on the withdrawal agreement and this approach, perhaps that is what could be achieved in the British House of Commons. It is therefore more about the focus at the overall level.
i-655963132ff88907-617	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. I may not quite fully understand what is required for this political declaration and customs union and what kind of negotiations need to come from the EU – if there are any short lines or a major agreement. But we can come back to that. I have another proposal, and that is that the European Union can offer to become some kind of mediator in the British Parliament. Maybe it's necessary. It feels like very little is happening, and it seems that they don't have the habit of talking to each other. I think it must nevertheless be in the interests of the European Union to move forward. How does the Prime Minister see what the EU can do more to make the issue really move forward without intervening? If there is an invitation from different parties, could one imagine that?
i-655963132ff88907-621	Madam President, I would like With regard to the customs union, the UK must leave the EU in order to negotiate what the relationship should really look like in detail. Then they will not be allowed to remain as a member. The political declaration is precisely a declaration, a will. We are looking forward to Britain leaving the EU. They want a customs union or some other customs cooperation, and then we have to decide if we think it's okay. It is therefore more comprehensive. When it comes to the question of mediators, one may not interfere with what other countries are doing. At the same time, when you have looked at how things are done in that Parliament, I do not know who is so eager to go in there. Perhaps Désirée Pethrus could make a difference! I don't know. It's possible.
i-655963132ff88907-623	Madam President, I would like It's nice that we can laugh too in the midst of all the misery. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your report. Everyone is in favour of an orderly exit and continued good relations between the UK, Sweden and the EU, and the EU should focus on climate, law enforcement and strengthening the internal market, and so on, instead of the Prime Minister going back and forth at these meetings. I would like to say that the Liberals are very much in agreement with what the Prime Minister says when he says that there is no half-membership, that is to say that Britain is with them until they are not. It is clear that they must be regarded as a full member and, as far as the electoral situation is concerned, they must hold elections. I'm not gonna stand here and filibuster anymore, but I think we've exhausted the subject at the moment. But I have a specific question. The media reported early this morning, or if it was last night, that some countries had provided for the extension on which a decision was now taken. I suppose it was part of the discussion that different dates were set first but then agreed on this. It is really only in this respect that I want an answer. Is there complete agreement on how to deal with this issue in the future so that we still have a united EU-27 on this issue?
i-655963132ff88907-628	Madam President, I would like The short answer is yes. As is well known, it was proposed from 22 May to 30 June, the turn of the year or 31 March. In this sense, this is a compromise, but at the same time it has factual content. There is an argument for that, and it is precisely as I said in the report that it is linked to when the new Commission is due to take office. So there is a factual argument. There is complete agreement, and Britain always has the opportunity to withdraw this; they have the right to do so. If we agree on a withdrawal agreement, it will also work out, but if we do not, there is a great risk. One should never guarantee how things turn out, but then the risk is obvious – if there has not been another domestic policy in Britain that would justify something. But it's supposed to go towards a decision now.
i-655963132ff88907-630	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for that clarification, Prime Minister. Yes, much can happen, and several have pointed out that there are concerns that Theresa May may not be around until this issue is resolved. With those words, I will go and prepare for tomorrow's European Council, where we will work for a strengthened internal market.
i-655963132ff88907-633	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the report, Prime Minister. As everyone has said here, it is important to avoid Britain crashing out of the Union and that Sweden also helps us to do everything we can to ensure that there is an orderly exit. I think that the Prime Minister well explained how we act on this. It is quite clear, as many have been here, that the EU-27 is acting constructively, helping and supportively in this situation – albeit not fully mediating. On the other hand, we actually heard the chief negotiator say when he was in Sweden that he had offered his services but had not yet received any attention on this. It feels like we are trying to make as much easier for Britain as possible, and that is important. At the same time, Brexit has led many people in our country, but also in other countries, to see what we actually have in common. Support for EU membership has been strengthened in Sweden. At the same time, confidence in the EU as an institution remains rather low. It is not by chance that the United Kingdom chooses precisely to leave the Union on the basis of the media situation and the political situation that has prevailed, where the European Union has always been accused of a lot of things, and one has been fed on a day-to-day basis with nid pictures of what the European Union is doing and sometimes not doing. I would like to ask how the Prime Minister views this situation. What is there to learn from this, and what can Sweden do not end up in that situation? Has this lesson in any way made an impression in the EU community and led to a deeper discussion of how the EU and its Member States can act to avoid more situations like this where countries want to leave the EU?
i-655963132ff88907-638	Madam President, I would like That is, of course, an important question. I share the view that there has probably been a strong picture of Europe. When you hear the stories about the vote, you realize that picture has been very negative. But the referendum is done. It is a democratic decision that is only to be respected. What Can We Learn? This is not least what Åsa Westlund herself is into what is plus and minus in this and to be honest in that debate. There are many advantages, but it is also the way we express, for example, in the discussion on the long-term budget that we believe that part of the budget can be used much better. Europe is for the people of the Member States, and the market is a tool and not an end in itself. In fact, it is the people of the Member States who should be well off. Does this mean using resources differently? What should you focus on? The issue of security is one such issue, and I believe that we have broad agreement that we need much better cooperation to deal with and protect ourselves against terrorism, but also organised crime. A few weeks ago, when I was in The Hague, I got a very good picture of Europol's cooperation, where the Swedish police have people in place down in The Hague and receive very valuable information. You can act in real time because you have information from other countries in terms of drug trafficking, human trafficking and everything that it can be. It is such a clear question, I think, where the EU could do more and show people that our cooperation creates security for you no matter where you live in Sweden. I think that this kind of reasoning would be good for European cooperation.
i-655963132ff88907-642	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I hope that we will avoid more special summits on Brexit and that this will work out as smoothly as possible.
i-655963132ff88907-644	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your work in the Council and for the report! Today we should perhaps use the typical Swedish word just in time. After all, the European Council reached a sufficiently long extension of the deadline for Brexit. The Green Party believes that it is good that at least the Council is now clearly acting in favour of an orderly Brexit and that there are rules of conduct on the ground on which everyone agrees. We are also pleased with the broad consensus that prevails here in Parliament. Brexit takes a lot of energy. The best thing about the Brexit process now being extended is that political leaders across Europe have room to shift their focus. It is now high time that the EU and forthcoming summits were about other things than Brexit – the really important things. I am thinking of the fact that we have ten years to halve climate emissions in order to cope with climate change. Now the EU and its Member States need to focus on continuing strong climate leadership. The EU also needs to push forward even clearer policies for the environment in relation to chemicals and sustainable development. Perhaps there is also a need for clearer economic instruments for the climate. Now we are facing a completely new agricultural policy. There, much stronger efforts are needed on ecology, the environment and climate. Now, the debate ahead of the European Parliament elections can also be about climate, justice, the future and cooperation. Right, Prime Minister?
i-655963132ff88907-650	Madam President, I would like I share that view. It was also one of the reasons why we wanted the June meeting to be just an analysis of what it looks like. We cannot sit back and make decisions, tangle conclusions and texts, but then it should just be an overview. We all feel a frustration that it has taken so long. We are tied up, both in terms of energy and time. These are exactly the questions that Maria Gardfjell mentions that we want to tackle. We want to make sure that we do more in the field of climate change. We want to do more for security, cooperation against terrorism and organised crime but, of course, just as much for the climate. That is the crucial question. The EU has been able to play a significant role there, in the Paris Agreement and beyond. That is the leading role we want Europe to play in the world. It is absolutely necessary. There is no doubt about it. That is again what I believe gives the citizens of the Member States the impression that it is good cooperation for us. That is extremely necessary. From trade to jobs, climate and security, what creates clear added value. Yeah, that's where we want to go. It is now a matter of ensuring that the elections to the European Parliament are allowed to deal with precisely those issues and not with Brexit.
i-655963132ff88907-654	Madam President, I would like I say thank you and good evening.
i-655963132ff88907-655	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for the motion to be rejected. We are debating the Constitutional Committee's report on publicity, confidentiality and integrity and the motions that the matter involves. However, before commenting on the content of the report, I would like to start by looking at it. Sweden is one of the world's most open countries. The main rule is public access, and the exception is confidentiality. Everyone has the right to public scrutiny, and what we fund together with tax money should be transparent. It creates legitimacy, and it creates trust. It is a foundation of our democracy. Why do we have this system, which is also quite unique in an international perspective? Yes, we do because it creates a stronger society. Transparency has an important role to play in public confidence in public activities and, therefore, in the willingness to finance common welfare. That way, we know what we get for the money. Madam President, I would like On the organisation Transparency International's annual corruption index, Sweden is in third place. This does not mean that we are free from corruption, but we have a society based on principles of transparency and transparency. Internationally, Sweden stands out with great opportunities for transparency in public activities. We owe this largely to our more than 250-year-old press and freedom of expression legislation. But there has also been solid work on various initiatives. In this context, the government initiated the Open Sweden project in 2000. It was an initiative aimed at making Swedish administration an international model of openness. Although we are one of the world's most open and transparent countries, there is more we can do to further strengthen that work. Statskontoret pointed out in 2014 in its report Swedish administration in an international perspective some areas that had potential for improvement. One area, for example, was the problem of public access when state funds go to private operators. As a general rule, the principle of public access does not apply to individual legal entities, such as individuals, limited companies, non-profit associations and foundations. Nor will they be subject to the principle of public access, even if they are given public administration tasks. So there is a risk of less transparency in what we actually get for our tax money. The fact that more and more publicly funded activities are carried out in a form other than public places different requirements on how to ensure openness and transparency of activities. Another area that Statskontoret pointed out was that public employees and politicians had to report their private interests. There were also recommendations on the presentation of contributions to political parties and quarantine rules on how to avoid conflicts of interest when public officials go to companies or organisations over which they had a previous influence. Many steps have been taken on these issues, such as the fact that from 2018 onwards parties and members will have to report their revenues and that anonymous contributions are not allowed. It's a good step along the way, but we can take more. Madam President, I would like I shall now turn to the report. The previous speaker in this debate has touched on the various parts of the report. There are many wise thoughts in the exercise. The reason why we are calling for rejection is that the government is either preparing various proposals that the motions concern or in other ways working on the issues. However, I would particularly like to highlight one of the motions, which Eva Lindh has written. She raises an important issue regarding the confidentiality of the social services law. There, confidentiality can sometimes contrast with actions that may be in the best interests of the child. There is ongoing investigation work to be reported on 1 June 2020. Madam President, I would like Our principle of public access has been challenged, including in the context of the European Union. There, however, we have successfully pushed for more transparency within the European institutions. Publicity is also challenged by digitalisation and technological development. Here, too, privacy issues are central, and the report sets out, among other things, the work of the Privacy Committee and the proposals that are now being further prepared in the Government Office. Madam President, I would like The principle of public access is also part of the constitutional power of control, as we in the Constitutional Committee, among other things, are experiencing in our reviews. There we have focused a lot on the disclosure of public documents and various confidentiality rules. Madam President, I would like More than 6 billion people live in countries that are deemed to have a high level of corruption. It is a system that often affects the weakest in society, those who cannot afford to pay for bribes or buy themselves ahead of the health line. Therefore, we in Sweden must not only fight and strive to be a front country, but we must also fight internationally for greater transparency and openness in more countries. As I said, Sweden is not perfect. The fact that Sweden does not correspond to the image of the world's most open country in all areas requires us to look at it. We need to look at how changes in how public activities, among other things, are taking place make it necessary to discuss these issues of transparency here. In an ever-increasing flow of information and increased communication, the principles of public access and privacy and confidentiality are at the forefront. That is why the committee has every reason to follow up the legislation and ensure that it is appropriate so that we continue to protect personal integrity, safeguard transparency in our jointly funded activities and – most importantly – safeguard our democracy.
i-655963132ff88907-672	Madam President, I would like This report and the draft decision, which we are debating now, concern, as we were told by the previous speaker, publicity, confidentiality and integrity. These are important and central issues for the heart of politics and democracy. It is not least a question of the authorities being transparent and transparent in their work so that it is possible for the public, the media and the political opposition to examine the work that the government is doing. It places great demands on authorities to make available the matter, the reports, the decisions and the evidence available in the public domain. In the second wave there is the question of safeguarding the integrity of the individual. This is something that my party, the Moderates, thinks is very important and is at the heart of our ideological conviction that society must always protect and be for the individual. It should not put the interests of groups or the state first. These are therefore difficult balances, which often show clear ideological and qualitative differences between the different parties. Nevertheless, there are no major differences of opinion in the proposal that we are now discussing. The reason for this is that it is in fact only 14 motions for motion, i.e. 14 proposals submitted by individual Members of Parliament. Therefore, this is quite limited to its scope. Not least, in principle, all parties and all Members of Parliament agree that many of the more tricky questions must be sent to the future, as they are involved in investigations that are under way. If they are not in the pipeline, these are difficult issues that have been investigated and are now being prepared by the Government Office, and we are all agreed to wait for this. I shall therefore be brief and say that, despite this, there is a point that we in the Moderates want to make. We think it needs to be clearly stated that authorities need to be more proactive in their work in order to keep up with and prepare for us politicians in terms of legislation so that we can make decisions on adapting legislation to technological developments. Otherwise, we may end up in a situation where technology, due to developments, is running away from us and the individual's right to privacy is being eroded. With these words, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1. Otherwise, I agree with the previous speaker that this report and this issue are not a source of great political disagreement.
i-655963132ff88907-678	Madam President, I would like We are now discussing the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. As the new chairman of the Swedish parliamentary OSCE delegation, it is an honour to stand here in the pulpit of the Riksdag knowing that we have an active and driving Swedish delegation. I would like to take this opportunity today to say a few words about the previous year but also about some of the challenges I see in the future. First of all, however, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report. To be part of the Swedish OSCE delegation obliges. The OSSE is the world's largest regional security organisation with 57 participating states in Europe, the Caucasus, Central Asia and North America. The OSSE is working to promote stability and security in the region on the basis of a broad-based approach to security covering three dimensions: security policy, economic and environmental, democracy and human rights. The organisation's particular strength lies, among other things, in its wide range of participating states, conflict prevention activities, the wide range of institutions and instruments allowing rapid and flexible conflict management and the widespread presence in the field. The European security regime is largely codified in the OSCE basic document, which sets out the principles of the OSCE and the political commitments of the participating States. The OSSE is an organisation that, like the UN, works in an inclusive spirit. This places special demands on us who come from countries that are democratic, which defend freedom and human rights and which work clearly against corruption. As long as freedom, oppression, persecution, conflict and corruption are a tangible part of the everyday life of so many of the OSCE Member States, the tough conversation must have its obvious place at the Assembly meetings. During 2018, eight election observations were held in both parliamentary and presidential elections where the Swedish delegation had a high attendance. For my part, I had the pleasure of participating in my first election observation, namely in last year's mid-year elections in the United States. I participated, although in other contexts, also in the Presidential elections both in 2008 and 2016 when Barack Obama and Donald Trump were elected. So it was fun to come back. I now look forward to making more election observations during this parliamentary term. Conducting an election observation is something I recommend to other Members of Parliament to do. This applies, of course, to those who are part of the OSCE delegation, but also to those who are given the opportunity to participate through the so-called presidential quota. Madam President, I would like The report we have to deal with here shows that the OSCE's annual winter meeting was held in Vienna on 22-23 February and brought together some 240 members from over 50 countries, including members from the Swedish delegation. The summer meeting was held on 7-11 July in Berlin and brought together some 300 members. Furthermore, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the following Members who held special positions in the Parliamentary Assembly in 2018: Margareta Cederfelt from the Moderates, who is the current Vice-President of the delegation and who also acts as Vice-President of the Agency, my representative as Chairman, Kent Härstedt, who was Special Representative for Eastern Europe, and Christian Holm Barenfeld from the Moderates, who was a member of the Working Group on the Organisation's Statutes. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that the Swedish delegation will continue to take its place in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, and I promise to continue, for my part, the good work of ensuring that our delegation is very active, valued and clear. The same applies, as is worth pointing out, to the Swedish Government, which is very proactive and active in its commitment to the OSSE. It will be needed in a time that is challenging. Madam President, I would like We see around us how democracy, human rights and gender equality are challenged. There is a regular conflict in Ukraine. In Poland and Hungary, for example, democratic institutions such as the free press and the independent justice system are being challenged. For the first time in the history of the European Union, a nation is asking to leave the Union, a nation which, in addition, is one of the most populous countries in the European Union. In several major countries, we are also moving towards more security and less transparency. Free trade is being called into question. HBtq people are being oppressed. Equality is being called into question. That is very worrying. My conviction is strong in dealing with this development. It is with increased cohesion and inclusion that we bridge such gaps. My main priority as a elected representative in the Swedish parliament is to counteract our thinking, which has grown in depth, not only in the rest of the world but also in Europe and in our own country. In order to achieve the goals that I and we want to achieve, there is a need for greater equality, both within and between countries. We must work to continue to protect democratic development in countries where democracy is young as well as in countries where democracy has long been unthreated but is now clearly being challenged. The rights and freedoms that we often take for granted here at home must be fought for together with good forces in other nations around our earth. Madam President, I would like In July, a summer meeting is expected for the Swedish OSCE delegation in Luxembourg. I look forward to going there right after Almedalen and conducting interesting discussions and broadening our networks further. But before that, of course, there are a few more election observations waiting. Even now in Easter, a gang is going to North Macedonia on duty. It is admirable that these Members set aside their Easter leave in order to go down and conduct an election observation in North Macedonia. In this context, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the staff of the Parliament's international office, which is always helpful to us and assist with practicalities, skills and also a good mood. Finally, Madam President, I would like to thank the Parliament, which has entrusted me with the chairmanship of the delegation. As I said, I look forward to taking part in developing the delegation's continued work, where each of us must take responsibility for representing Sweden in the best way. I would like to end this speech with a quote from former Prime Minister Olof Palme, who well captures what our democratic and international work is about: In all times people have lived in poverty and misery, humiliated by hunger and ignorance, tormented each other and driven to war. Yet, everything is not the same. The new thing is that we have gained deeper knowledge. The new thing is that we are beginning to show a willingness to take responsibility for each other. So it is not pointless when we react, take a stand, and try to influence development according to the measure of our ability.
i-655963132ff88907-689	Madam President, I would like The issue we are now debating concerns the activities of the OSCE delegation in the previous year. This is an important report, I would like to emphasise. It may seem that an activity report is something that is boring, but it is the other way around. The OSSE is doing a fantastic job. I would like to emphasise this. The OSSE was founded in 1975 under another name, the European Security Conference. This was during the time of the Cold War, when the tension was high in the world around us, when the fear of a new world war was greatest, and when it was also difficult for the great powers to talk to one another. It was a time that in a way resembles today's challenges. It may be for this reason that the interest in the OSSE is increasing, as I see it. During the 1990s, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly was formed. It was created because an awareness had arisen that it was not enough for governments to deal with security issues. The elected parliamentarians also needed to be involved in the work. As parliamentarians, we represent our voters. We represent the parliaments of our respective countries. In order to find long-standing security policy solutions, it is important that parliamentarians also participate in this work, Madam President. I would like to emphasise that the OSSE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, is a security organisation. It is an organisation that works within the three dimensions of politics and security, economy and environment, and democracy and rights. The work is carried out in the three committees, both in the form of purely parliamentary work and through field work. What many people associate the OSSE with is the flagship election observation. I mention election observations because an election is in some way the most important proof that a democracy works. Citizens have the right and the opportunity to express their vote in favour of how the country should be governed in a free and universal election. However, for an election to be free and universal, Madam President, it is not enough that there is a ballot box and a voting register and that it is possible to mark it on a ballot. There must also be a system based on freedom, a system allowing political parties and opposition, allowing democracy, allowing women and men to be represented, allowing minority groups to participate, allowing freedom of expression, free media and freedom of assembly. I can mention many more issues that are important. These are today values that have increased largely, but which are also being called into question in some places. That is why the OSSE is needed. I would also like to mention that there is a country in the OSSE that is subject to direct military active attack, namely Ukraine. Russia, another OSCE country, has attacked Ukraine and annexed part of it. It supports separatists in the southern parts, and Christmas attacked the Sea of Azov. This is, of course, unacceptable in any context. The same country, Russia, has also attacked Georgia, and several parts of it are annexed by Russia. Russia is present in several other parts of the OSCE area and is active against the countries that are members. So what do we do in the OSSE? We do not use the weapons, because it is not in the work of the OSCE. We use the dialogue. We use the parliamentary method when we come to the Parliamentary Assembly. We are debating the wrongs. We make decisions. We are talking about not accepting what is happening. Herein lies a great strength. Parliamentarians meet. Parlamentars highlight wrongs and dare to stand behind them saying: Stop, this is not acceptable! The OSSE has – then we are not talking about the parliamentary side but about the government side, but we are supporting this as parliamentarians – the Commission with field observers in the south-east of Ukraine. I say this because it is an excellent way of showing how the OSSE is working hand in hand for peace by being on the ground, observing and reporting. Human rights and the integrity of a country must be respected. These are the values that we stand up for. I would also like to mention a few other issues in addition to election observations that are important. The OSSE is an older organisation but in time. In addition to our three Commissions, there are also ad hoc working groups. One is about migration issues. Migration is a matter for all OSSE countries. It is either countries whose citizens move to seek a better life or flee from war, or countries that receive refugees. The OSSE is working here to find a common approach. It is important to find opportunities to improve the situation in the home countries but also to find a form of best practice and advice on how host countries can act when it comes to refugee issues. The OSCE migration team visited Sweden in December. It visited Malmö but also Copenhagen with visits to border police, authorities, municipalities, schools, employment services and voluntary organisations. I would also like to mention another working group within the OSSE. It is about combating terrorism. It also shows how important it is for parliamentarians to be involved in this work, and we want to be so. Parliamentarians from a large number of countries are working on proposals for how we, as parliamentarians, can work towards a safer society in which terrorism is stopped at an early stage. Madam President, I would like I mentioned here that the difficulties that exist in our world are also seen within the OSSE. We see how international tensions affect the debate and the climate between politicians. We see how Russia's actions affect and how the United States' changed work develops. We can also look back on human rights in many contexts. I am thinking here of difficulties for LGBT people and women's rights, to name a few, and also when there is talk of freedom of expression and press. I am thinking of imprisoned journalists in Turkey and Azerbaijan with several countries. There are many issues on which the OSSE is involved and working. What is at stake is that human rights, democracy and security are important values. These are the values in which we parliamentarians are committed and should continue to be involved. I'm very proud to be Swedish. Since the establishment of the Parliamentary Assembly, we have been active, have held leadership and have not drawn us too far from difficult missions, regardless of the party colours. It has not mattered whether it was a moderate or a social democrat. We have worked and stood up for the values. I see this as important when it comes to Sweden's actions abroad. I would like, as the chairman of the delegation did, to thank the Office for its work, and always for its good temper, as well as great know-how and assistance. I would also like to thank the Chair of the delegation for his leadership and commitment to the work of the delegation. Thank you, Johan Büser!
i-655963132ff88907-705	Madam President, I would like I am new to my role in the OSSE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. I was going to make a quick review of what I have seen from the OSSE so far. For me, the new thing is that it really is the arena where European security order is maintained. It's exactly the main function. It is also a very important part of the democratic world order. That is where it happens in practice. Thanks to the fact that 57 countries are involved and, above all, that Russia is involved, it becomes a very important arena. What happens is weekly meetings. It gives you continuity. The strength of the OSSE is that it has conflict prevention activities, continuity, breadth and very large field presence. Of course, there are also election observations, which may be the basis of all the work. The Center Party likes the OSSE. We believe very much in international cooperation and outlook. I am full of reflections from those efforts. It is also good because you learn that the prejudices you have are not always true. For example, last year we were in Armenia. We got very good credentials from that electoral system and the election there. At the same time, another delegation was in the United States. It pointed out that there are major democratic problems with the US electoral system. Maybe that's not what you expected. I myself was in Vienna at the winter meeting. It is very clear how practical it is to sit in this Chamber. We happened to have the delegation from Russia in the line ahead of us and the delegation from Ukraine in the line behind us. The tension felt between the two main combatants in the conflict that unfortunately prevails. US E goes out on a pretty simple basis thesis: It's better to talk to each other than to fight with each other. The OSSE has a tradition and organisation based on consensus decisions. It takes time to move forward sometimes, but it has to be worth it. Last time, a resolution was passed to increase protection against physical violence against journalists. It is an important resolution. We take small steps forward even though sometimes things can feel tough in this world. As I see it, Sweden has a dual purpose of participating in the OSSE and contributing there. One is to contribute as one of the oldest democracies and help build new democratic systems in the world. That is one purpose. The second aim is to reflect on the shortcomings of our own democracy and understand the threat to Swedish democracy by having the international outlook. It is very clear that today many countries are fighting for full democratic systems. Our fight is rather to maintain a full democratic system. We know that, technically and regularly, our democracy is absolutely fair. But we still see that it is challenged in many ways, and we take it for granted. Madam President, I would like I see two clear threats to Swedish democracy today, and they are partly linked. The first is clear. It's based on impact campaigns. We know there are troll factories. We also know that they are very cheap and effective. Overall, it can be said that it is much easier to turn the heads of a population than to take a country militarily. Today I'm pretty sure we've seen examples of impact campaigns, hate campaigns, against Annie Lööf and Annika Strandhäll, for example. I think there are definitely things behind there that cannot be pointed out more clearly than that. The second challenge I see is linked to the first one with advocacy campaigns. It strengthens polarization in Swedish society. We get a we and d e which is really not a good thing. Some feel that they are part of society and others feel that they are absolutely not part of society. In practice, there will be a split into right-wing populists against the rest. It really is not something that benefits Swedish democracy. Unfortunately, it is also the case that the normal arguments of reason cease to work, and it goes more towards emotional arguments where the facts do not bite in the argumentation. This is a dangerous development on the part of Sweden. I also see the reality that we ourselves could see in Ukraine. If we don't watch our backs, it's gonna be like that again. So far, after the first election, the outcome is that a celebrity and comedian have a good chance of becoming president. In practice, fiction is thus mixed with reality. Everything is based on confidence in the current government of 9%, and that is due to many circumstances. This means that it can go anywhere in Ukraine, and that is what we are also seeing around Europe and the world. Overall, the Center Party is in favour of OSCE cooperation backwards and forwards, and we think it is an important priority to pursue. Therefore, I personally am also very happy that I can contribute to this job.
i-655963132ff88907-721	Madam President, I would like We are discussing a report and a report on the activities of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSSE, for 2018. The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe originates from the European Security Conference, which was established in 1975 as a forum for political negotiations between East and West. In 1993, the organisation was given the status of regional organisation at the UN, and in 1995 the conference changed its name to the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, with the abbreviation OSSE. Madam President, I would like Today, the OSSE has 57 states as members and is an effective organisation in international security cooperation. The activities of the OSCE cover three main areas: security policy, economic and environmental, democracy and human rights. The OSSE also promotes long-term confidence building and conflict prevention in different countries in close cooperation with other international bodies. Today, the OSSE has activities in some fifteen countries. These focus in particular on strengthening respect for human rights and the rule of law. It is about democratic social development to build democratic institutions and to support confidence building between different communities to prevent conflicts and more. Madam President, I would like In addition to conflict management, the OSSE also contributes to reconstruction and has in recent years increased its focus on security policy issues. The OSSE is also working on issues related to migration, human trafficking, terrorism and border surveillance, and has a great deal of cooperation also with countries outside its geographical area through partnership agreements. Madam President, I would like The activities are financed by contributions from the parliaments of the Member States, and Sweden also contributes to this organisation. It is well-invested funds, which come to many vulnerable people. In this report on the activities during 2018, we can note that the Swedish delegation to the OSSE is active and contributes significantly. Madam President, I would like The Assembly has 323 full members and a large number of substitutes. The attendance is high when the OSSE has meetings. The annual winter meeting brought together some 240 parliamentarians from over 50 countries to discuss and make decisions. Delegates follow up the implementation by the governments of the Member States of resolutions and recommendations adopted by the Assembly at its meetings. Madam President, I would like The OSSE is an important player for peace and security and democratic development. It is the world's largest regional security organisation, with 57 participating states in Europe, the Caucasus, Central Asia and North America. As previous speakers have pointed out, international cooperation is important for combating poverty and contributing to sustainable development and promoting democracy, peace and security, etc. I myself have been on a mission as an election observer and I can see that the OSSE has great respect as an election observer. The presence and reporting of delegates reduce electoral fraud and contribute to free and transparent elections in a number of countries. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats wish to underline the importance of the OSSE and of Sweden continuing to actively support its work. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-655963132ff88907-731	Madam President, I would like We have today to debate the Committee on Culture's motion for a resolution on public service issues. These are issues that involve many, both Members and voters. Madam President, I would like Public service should be a democratic utility for everyone living in this country, even for those who do not always use the services directly. To make a sloppy illustration, you can say that most people want the fire department to come when needed, even if you do not use the emergency services very often or even at all. This should also be the case for public service. People should want public service even beyond times when, so to speak, it burns in the knots. This is basically a question of legitimacy, something that not everyone today feels that public service has. This must be taken seriously. Madam President, I would like Last autumn, the Riksdag decided on a new financing model, replacing the TV fee with a public service tax. Although we Moderates are fundamentally in favour of the new model, there is much to say today about the process that prompted Parliament's decision. It is questionable why decisions on the financing model were not preceded by discussions and decisions on the public service mission and its content. It should at least have been part of an integrated process, in which both financing and regulation of public services were dealt with in a holistic way. Instead, this should happen now, in the summer, when the S-MP government intends to put a bill on Parliament's table on this very subject. However, it is completely reverse; the order of decision would have been different. Madam President, I would like The changed public service financing model must be perceived as highly legitimised by the population in order to be sustainable in the long term. The current financing model means that there is a risk that a surplus will be built up in the public service account if the revenue from the tax exceeds the allocation of funds specified in the broadcasting licence, which is not a very sensible system. A fundamental principle must always be to tax the people as little as possible. Overtaxation is always wrong, especially in a country like Sweden, which is already burdened by one of the world's highest tax pressures. In order to address the risk of large surpluses being built up, we want moderates to balance the assets of the public service account annually and to introduce an automatic adjustment of the public service tax so that taxpayers do not have to pay more than is allocated to the public service companies. Madam President, I would like There is also another element that should be highlighted as regards the legitimacy aspect of the new public service tax. In the previous financing system, part of the then radio and television fee was allocated to the costs of the company Radiotjänst, partly to administer the fee and partly to carry out the notorious fee control. In order to ensure a long-term sustainable financing model with high legitimacy for the population, we want the funds released when Radiotjänst is now closed instead of being used to reduce the public service tax. This is how we avoid over-taxation in this part too. Madam President, I would like Another crucial aspect of the legitimacy of the public service is the impartiality and objectivity of what is being published. The Radio and Television Audit Board is in place to check whether the content of radio and television programmes complies with the rules applicable to broadcasting. According to the broadcasting licence, broadcasting rights must be exercised impartially and objectively, taking into account the wide-ranging freedom of expression and information on radio and television. Madam President, I would like Without evaluating individual cases dealt with, we Moderates, as I have said, note that the call for impartiality and objectivity has raised a great deal of debate – a debate that deserves to be taken seriously. The activities of the Audit Board must always be transparent and transparent. This means, among other things, that higher demands should be made that the decisions taken by the review panel should always be justified. We Moderates believe that the rejection decisions are often flawed today. There are strong reasons why the Audit Board is given a clearer responsibility for investigation than it has today. This would create better conditions for decisions based on correct facts and relevant circumstances, compared with a system based on the notifying party's tasks setting the framework for the review of the Board. The requirement for a conviction to be made public should be clarified so that publication is always as clear as the faulty reporting. We will have reason to come back to this part too during the summer and autumn when the next public service bill is placed on Parliament's table. Madam President, I would like However, a proposal that concerns the impartiality and independence of public services that we Moderates want to highlight now is about sponsorship in public service. Public service must be independent from political and commercial influence. A basic principle of broadcasting authorisations is therefore that broadcasters are not allowed to broadcast advertising and such sponsored programmes where the sponsor grant has been paid directly to broadcasters. Nevertheless, there is an exception for SVT that sponsorship may occur at a maximum of 20 events per year, in order for SVT to be able to broadcast attractive sporting events that require sponsorship. The fact that SVT is allowed to broadcast 20 sponsored events per year may seem reasonable, but in reality this means much more. Each event may contain a larger number of individual broadcasts. This is basically a problem. The fact that one broadcast covers brands on clothing and signs in order to feed direct sponsorships risks damaging the company's credibility and rhymes badly with the requirement of commercial independence. In order to strengthen confidence in public service independence, we suggest Moderates, together with our friends in the Christian Democrats, that the government review the possibilities of limiting the possibilities of sponsorship for SVT in future broadcasting permits, so that sponsorship takes place only in exceptional cases. Madam President, I would like Of course, we Moderates are behind all our reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 3 on reduced public service tax due to the closure of Radiotjänst in Kiruna.
i-655963132ff88907-751	Madam President, I would like For four months now, all of us who have earned an income have paid a public service tax. We have discussed this for a long time, not least last year. In this report we have a total of four reservations and a specific opinion. I support everyone, but today I only support reservation 5. The discussion on sponsorship has been, above all, an issue that the Moderates and the Christian Democrats have pursued. We in our group have for a long time also looked at the arguments but have not landed in the same conclusion as M and KD. On the other hand, I would like to express our satisfaction at the fact that at the end of the preparatory work for this debate it was decided to delete the word. It was not enough for us to support the reservation this time, but we will continue to work out the best wording. As I said, we actively chose not to support the reservation because today we have a different view of sponsorship. SVT has an exception of 20 events where you can have sponsorship. In addition, the Swedish Democrats are pushing the issue of the introduction of an event list, where the argument that there is a strong restriction on sponsorship is not really connected. The public service companies must of course, and always, use their now tax-funded funds with care. We have not changed our mind there. Madam President, I would like Our news in this year's public service exercise is that we propose an investigation based on investigating the possibility of merging the companies into a public service company. It is unique to have three public service companies. Around the world you have a company, not least in our neighbouring countries. Give me an example of why three companies would do a better job than a company! Are three companies a guarantor of the maintenance of objectivity and of high-quality content? In the media world we live in today, with rapid technological development, new units and new media habits, it is only reasonable to investigate a possible merger. For quite frankly, SVT does not just make moving images today. Swedish Radio is not just making sounds today. What is television and what is radio can hardly be discerned today. I know that the companies have already made some mergers internally, for example through certain joint administrative departments. But we believe that a common public service company would avoid double reporting and have greater efficiency and easier recognition. That's what we want this investigation to look at. In other words, we do not agree with the committee's position on the point of Ownership. We also have a reservation in this area, reservation 5, to which I have applied. The committee believes that the current ownership function, together with future changes in the Board's representation, creates the conditions for ensuring a high level of integrity of public services. In addition, it is believed that the programme activities benefit from the existence of three broadcasters in Sweden. I'd like to say that those days are over. When our media consumption has changed radically and completely erased the boundary between TV, radio, computer, mobile phone, tablet, even clock and so on, it is obsolete to still think that you have television for pictures, radio for sound and newspapers for text. Everyone's talking about a changing media landscape. Is it not time, then, for the committee to do the same and keep up with developments? Madam President, I would like In recent years we have seen a decline in trust in public services, although it is still very high compared to many other media companies. I've mentioned that several times. I also have evidence of this, although many question the figures. The debate on public service is still hot outside these walls. It can be considered remarkable that not all parties, once again, are represented in today's debate. Many bourgeois debaters criticise the left turn of public services. The proposals made by the bourgeois parties for action reflect their absence. That is where the problem lies: there are no proposals to tackle these problems. Do you have concrete proposals for an independent public service, or are you too worried about having the courage to take the debate? The debate on whether public service is impartial or objective has been going on and will continue for a long time to come. Madam President, I would like For us, it is important to safeguard objectivity and impartiality. I have also mentioned this in previous public service debates in this House. This is best achieved through transparency and transparency of operations. A self-regulatory system is what we ultimately want to achieve with our proposals – a system that itself regulates its problems, recognizes its shortcomings and works preventively itself. To conclude, I would just like to mention briefly something about our web-counting. I am pleased that it is finally in the process of addressing this issue. I hope that this will be a good enough result, which will also make the companies happy. For as I said: It seems strange that you can only report content via one channel – about new media habits!
i-655963132ff88907-769	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 6. Madam President, I would like According to the broadcasting permits for public service companies, broadcasters must be characterised by public education ambitions. By limiting the use of the produced material to their own channels, these very ambitions and opportunities are limited. In order to increase public and other media use of the public service material produced by Swedish Television, Swedish Radio and Education Radio, a change in their openness and accessibility is needed. Therefore, the government, which I urge in my reservation, should review the conditions for Swedish Television, Swedish Radio and Education Radio to make its journalistic public service material available for free use as far as possible. This is not least important because since the end of the year we have replaced the previous TV fee with a public service fee. It is an important and correct decision. But it is also a decision that demands public service broadcasters, and perhaps even more so politicians, to continue to be clear about the importance of the independence of public service broadcasters. Madam President, I would like With my speech, I would like to show why independent public service is important for our country's democracy. Even if you do not actively participate in the content of public services, public services play a role for you, for the society you live in and for your opportunity and right to live in a democracy where freedom of expression is protected. Madam President, I would like In order for us to have a functioning democracy, we who live in the country need to be involved and involved. Not least is it necessary for all citizens to be able to monitor and follow what decision-makers in different positions decide and also be able to influence decisions. But to be involved, you also need to be informed. Then we need both public service and commercial media, side by side. A prerequisite for us to have a living democracy is that there is access to independent media with the resources, opportunities and skills to produce and demonstrate investigative journalism. Public service has a special role in this media landscape. It is a role that is, among other things, about being an independent player with great integrity. It is about being independent of political governance and commercial interests. It is obviously a balancing process and a task that is constantly being tested and evaluated. It is also necessary to be accessible to those who are required to access the content, regardless of what function conditions viewers or listeners have. Public service plays a major role in the reflection of the whole country. Public services are needed, once again, side by side with private operators to provide a diversity of perspectives. At the same time, a broad public service mission is central to ensuring that the offer is relevant to many people in Sweden. The culture and entertainment that the public service companies produce and convey – this also applies to sporting events – also gives an image of our society and an opportunity to strengthen our society. It also provides opportunities for different groups in our society to take part in and convey their own history and culture. It is thus both an opportunity to create knowledge and understanding of their own history and situation and an opportunity to increase the knowledge and understanding of others in our society. When you take part of the public service broadcasters' programmes on their own platforms, you will be reminded of what more you can learn about the range of public services. This could be a social programme that you would otherwise have missed or a newscast or a new cultural expression that you would not otherwise have come into contact with. The broad remit of public services is therefore a prerequisite for the continued relevance of public services in our society and in the fast moving media landscape. Here I would like to take the opportunity to highlight education radio, UR, which, with its unique mission to educate and form, is an important part of public service. Madam President, I would like Democracy is protected by the independent public service companies' reviews of power and society, for the benefit of all of us who live here. A parliamentary committee has examined the forthcoming authorisation period for public service broadcasters. An investigation was submitted to the government at Midsummer last year. From what I understand, the government is now working on developing a bill in this area. I expect, and have also understood, that it is work that will be done in close cooperation with the other parties in the Riksdag. As I see it, it is important to have, as far as possible, a consensus on public service. In the investigation we did not fully agree, but the investigation is a good and clear basis to stand on. I hope that the government will take note of this in its continued work on the important issue of public service.
i-655963132ff88907-780	Madam President, I would like I agree with the reservations of the Christian Democrats, but for time to come, I only support reservation No 4. I can't help but look back at the history of public services – especially television history in Sweden. The first public television screening took place in December 1930 at SF's Red Kvarn cinema here in Stockholm. In December 1935, Stockholm-Tidningen's office at Slussen in Stockholm and Dagens Nyheter's office at Sankt Eriksplan showed the radio. In November 1938 the Stockholm-Tidningen showed in collaboration with Swedish Philip's live remote image with sound on Kungsgatan in Stockholm. In 1946, two assistants at the Royal Institute of Technology travelled to the United States to study television's future prospects. When they came home, they stated in a travel report that a time has come to start working on various aspects of television technology in Sweden too. In 1951, this year of grace, the government set up a government investigation called the Television Delay Committee. Why this strange name? The resistance to television was harsh. The film companies, which also owned the cinemas, protested that people could watch movies at home. What would happen to all cinemas? Newspaper publishers were afraid of losing advertising revenue if the TV was to be released. The association people also complained: The TV was supposed to sacrifice the Swedes and make everyone sit at home, eat cookies and watch nature programs. The solution was not to broadcast so much television and Wednesdays would be free of broadcasts. Wednesday was the most popular association day. That's why that very day was to be kept television-free. But then it happened. It was the 1958 football World Cup that made people use their savings to buy a television set. I went into the neighbor's house myself. There was resistance to television among the Swedish politicians too, especially in the government-forming Social Democratic Party, according to the history description. But the resistance decreased over time. During the late 1960s, the issue of a second television channel was discussed extensively. The business community and the bourgeois wanted the new channel to be financed by advertising to ensure competition. The Social Democrats wanted the second television channel to be advertising-free and operated by Swedish Radio, mainly in view of the advertising sales of newspapers. And that's what happened. On December 5, 1969, TV2 started. The first television channel was named TV1. These two channels would compete, even if they belonged to the same company. TV2 was immediately stamped with a left-hand twist, which was not denied either. Madam President, I would like Public services have high levels of confidence among the population. Objectivity and independence are A and O for these to be maintained. Public service must be independent from political and commercial influence. It's important. The issue of the independence of public services will be addressed in the study analysing, among other things, whether the independence of broadcasters is sufficient or whether it should be strengthened by the Constitution. It's important work. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, have a reservation in the area of sponsorship. TV receives the same amount as under the old invoicing system through the new charge collected through the tax bill of around 8.4 billion per year. Is sponsorship necessary? Let me say this: we Christian Democrats want the government to review the possibilities for SVT in relation to sponsorship in the forthcoming broadcasting permit for 2020 – 2025. We want the sponsorship to take place in exceptional cases. However, we do not want to remove the possibility of sponsorship. Why? Many of us remember when the commercial channel TV3 took over the hockey World Cup and many who didn't have that channel missed the ice hockey. Worse were the effects this had on young people's interest in playing hockey. Interest declined as so many missed the broadcasts. I can therefore understand that from a popular perspective SVT needs sponsoring funds to pay for hugely expensive events, and I want the Olympics and similar major events to be broadcast on Swedish Television. Madam President, I would like Independence, objectivity, funding and policy keeping an appropriate and reasonable distance are important issues for people's confidence in public service. In the forthcoming bill on public service, the question of SVT's expanded pre-test and new services will be raised. One thing is for sure: Public services have an important mission that we Christian Democrats in the Swedish Parliament fully support.
i-655963132ff88907-796	Madam President, I would like On 20 December 2016, the then government took the decision to set up a parliamentary committee. It was tasked with proposing the necessary changes to ensure that the public service broadcasters also have good conditions for their operations in the new global media landscape. The Committee would initially propose a new financing system, in order to consider later in an additional directive the short- and long-term nature of the public service remits. The mandate for the financing system and strengthened independence was presented on 16 October 2017. The final report An independent public service for all – new opportunities and increased responsibility were handed over to the then Minister of State on 19 June 2018. Madam President, I would like Setting up a parliamentary inquiry is usually described as a method of reaching broad consensus on substantive issues. In fact, however, it is a question of managing a multi-party system, where the inherent realization is that we have goal conflicts and conflicts of interest. However, in order to get the policy to deal with issues of substance and less about the government itself, questions need to be thoroughly analysed and the conflict of objectives met. According to political science studies, parliamentary studies with representatives of all parties have been shown to contribute to raising the general debate and setting a framework for the policy area to be investigated. Furthermore, parties that do not sit in the government have an influence that corresponds to the support of the electorate, and the tension between proportionalism and parliamentarism can thus be reduced. This, of course, requires that the parties contribute with their serious commitment, that there is a strong mandate to the representatives of the Committee or the investigation and that the final compromises are fixed at least over a certain period of time. Madam President, I would like Many would surely have been surprised if we Social Democrats had presented the tremendous process of finally agreeing to the solidarity-based financing system that then became. We were strongly opposed to this, as the members of the Committee can testify. But it is one of the compromises that my party has had to bear and that we defended when the Parliament decided in November to introduce it, and I know that other parties too have had to compromise and face conflicts of interest. In the long run, however, the result is something that can last over time, which raises the public debate and lays the groundwork for the issue when we debate public service. For cultural policy, which is still based on the structures in which the 1974 parliamentary inquiry landed, parliamentary investigations are being conducted, with all parties entering into something new. However, when political parties allow short-termism to take over, the conditions for investigating a policy area and the possibilities for getting the question and framework to last over time are actually limited. The Swedish Democrats have participated in this parliamentary public service inquiry. They, like all parties, have been able to reserve their reservations about individual proposals and, at the same time, to use their parliamentary influence to get politics through. Although they have been involved in the investigation, have made proposals and have signed the final report, they are today proposing, just six months later, that a new investigation be carried out. In addition, they know that the current broadcasting licence for the public service broadcasters will expire on 31 December 2019. When has a new parliamentary inquiry been envisaged at all? What mission should such a one have, and when should it be carried out? There's actually not much time. Madam President, I would like The national media policy objectives state that policy in this area should support freedom of expression, safeguard diversity, ensure the independence and accessibility of the mass media and counter harmful media influence. The current broadcasting permits for SVT, SR and UR assume that the activities will be characterised by independent and strong integrity and that they will be conducted independently of the state as well as with various political, economic and other interests and spheres of power in society. I would like to emphasise that there is broad agreement in our committee on the central importance of public services for our democratic society. The activities are conducted with good quality, have a high level of public confidence and reflect the conditions throughout the country. The activities carry out extensive children's, public education, minority and cultural assignments that contribute to well-informed, curious and committed citizens. It is even more important to strengthen the role of Swedish media players at a time when the interest of global media actors has also been directed towards the Swedish media market and Swedish households. The emergence of disinformation has been increasingly evident, and the need for clear information preparedness in the event of social crises needs to be addressed. We Social Democrats believe that the parliamentary inquiry has done a good job. All these challenges have been observed in particular. Our ambition in the further work on the forthcoming bill, which is already under preparation, is that the Committee's conclusions should be respected as far as possible. We think that the basis for what all parties have contributed to is good. In doing so, Sweden will move towards a different development than many of our European neighbours, which have strongly politicised the public service debate in a negative direction and with short-sightedness. In addition, much has been cut back on its long-term funding. Having said that, we want the Swedish media companies as a whole to be strongly equipped despite the rapid development of the global media landscape and digitalisation. I believe that there is no reason to pre-empt work on the forthcoming proposal, and that is why I am today calling for all reservations to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved in the report.
i-655963132ff88907-814	Madam President, I would like I almost felt compelled to request a reply to Mr Redar's speech. It is true that we are proposing a new investigation. It has to do with the fact that we felt that in the investigation that has been completed, questions were still missing even before it began. Not least, it was a question of reviewing the audit function, how to ensure an objective public service and how to ensure an independent public service. We have a different approach to how independence and objectivity are ensured. This can be read in our public service exercise, and I presented a part of my speech. That is precisely why we want a new investigation because we believe that several things were missing in the investigation that is ready. That's why we want a new investigation. Why did the Social Democrats not want to see the overall picture, to review the whole picture, when the opportunity existed? Some things were selected, but the most important ones were forgotten. Why did you forget some parts?
i-655963132ff88907-819	Madam President, I would like Angelika Bengtsson has a very strange introduction to the line shift with me. The first thing on which the investigation is based is the changing behaviour of households in the new media landscape. You don't buy TVs. That's how the public service companies financed themselves. We are seeing developments in which the purchase of television sets has been greatly reduced, and we need to ensure the financing system. But as this became the first initiative, it was realized that what Angelika Bengtsson describes as a whole also needed to be addressed. There is therefore now a major parliamentary inquiry that has looked at the independence, the financing system, the audit part and what the mission should be. By 31 December 2019 new broadcasting authorisations shall be introduced. There is no time to conduct a new parliamentary inquiry in which all parties make their views known. Is this a proposal that can be implemented at all? Is that a real proposal? Why did they not use their involvement in the parliamentary inquiry to express those views and contribute what they had? Now we are proposing something quite different, which I think is a pity.
i-655963132ff88907-823	Madam President, I would like The new model is financed through the tax bill. The Swedish Democrats were the first to propose this form. We presented this proposal for several years in the Swedish Parliament. We did not change our minds on the financing model. We would have liked to have looked at the whole before looking at the financing model. We have been openly critical of that matter. You should have started at the other end. Now it's time to buy the pig in the bag. There is a financing model. It's secured first. Thereafter, objectivity and independence shall be ensured. Shouldn't you have started at the other end? Isn't that what we should have been looking at in the first place? Why we have a reservation and want a new investigation is because we think it was too late. Maybe you should have started earlier with the investigation. It really happened at the last second. That's what we're seeing now.
i-655963132ff88907-827	Madam President, I would like This is not a serious post. We don't have much time. A new broadcasting licence shall be introduced for all public service broadcasters on 31 December 2019. That is where the mission will be clear, and it will be based, in my opinion, in the public service investigation that Angelika Bengtsson himself participated in. The Swedish Democrats could have taken responsibility for what they think, put forward proposals and compromised with all parties on what they want to introduce in line with the new broadcasting licence and the financing system. We have drawn our load by compromise. We have looked at where we can meet in the conflicts of interest that have arisen. Now our ambition is that this bill regarding the broadcasting permit should land broadly in the joint commitment of all parties. Angelika Bengtsson's party usually is a party that claims that it does not have power and influence. The party was given the opportunity to participate in the parliamentary inquiry, and it shows once again that the mission is not taken seriously.
i-655963132ff88907-830	Madam President, I would like The story of Josefin Nilsson, singer of Ainbusk, recently shown in SVT, leaves no one who has seen it untouched. It is a story about a popular artist who was brutally beaten by his boyfriend – a famous actor. She passed away far too early in the suites after the beating. The reactions to the documentary have been strong and the debate intense. Light manifestations have been kept in her memory, and people demand restoration and change. The documentary on Josefin Nilsson points to a major and serious social problem, namely that there are thousands of women in Sweden today living with her experiences of violence in close relationships. It also shows that SVT, like the other public service companies, is actively working on issues that really involve people and can make a difference to the public conversation. With its broad mission to review the powers, reflect conditions throughout the country and carry out a comprehensive child education, folk education and cultural mission, public service contributes to citizens being well informed and able to make informed decisions. This strengthens our democratic society. Madam President, I would like For the Green Party, the most important starting point in public television and radio policy is to safeguard the independence of public service broadcasters. Public service must be beyond all spheres of society's power. This applies in particular to the political sphere. Public service has an extremely important mission to review the Riksdag and the Government. There should never be any doubt that this review is independent of policy. In this way, the public will be given transparency in the exercise of power and it will be possible for the public to demand responsibility. I am happy to remember the note that slammed down in my mailbox at the end of last year when the historic decision on the public service fee was presented to households. Because I am convinced that in the future the new funding system will be good for the three broadcasters Sveriges Radio, Sveriges Television and Utbildningsradion. It provides long-term and stable financial conditions for developing independent, audit activities. It should be an activity characterised by high legitimacy, quality and relevance in the modern, rapidly changing media landscape where the struggle for people's attention has increased and the competition from global media players as well. A year later, the parliamentary public service committee appointed in 2016 was also given the task of proposing how purpose regulation in a new media landscape can be designed in the short and long term. Given the importance of the issue for our democracy, it is a strength that all parties have participated in the parliamentary inquiry and been able to find ways forward on the most important issues – the Swedish Democrats exception. The final report An independent public service for all is currently being discussed in the Government Office. And I look forward to the bill coming in June. Madam President, I would like The motion for a resolution contains two motions on the sponsorship of programmes. At present, sponsorship is strictly regulated. The basic principle mentioned above is that SVT is not allowed to broadcast sponsored programmes where the sponsor grant goes directly to the company. The Parliamentary Public Service Committee has also stated that sponsorship constitutes an exception to other non-commercial activities, which basically means that companies should be restrictive in the use of sponsorship. In view of the ongoing work within the Government Office to draft proposals on broadcasting licences for broadcasters in the period 2020-2025, the Committee rejects the motions on this issue. Finally, I would like to emphasise that public service has a unique role in the media landscape and will be the guarantor of impartiality and objectivity. Unlike commercial media, public services have a requirement for impartiality in the state. At a time when the social climate is at risk of polarising more and more, the broadcasters can be the aggregate force in Sweden. The documentary about Josefin Nilsson has shown that by broadcasting engaging programs that do not avoid uncomfortable topics, public service can attract large audiences and enrich the public conversation. I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-655963132ff88907-843	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, TU11 Professional Transport and Taxi. It is hopeful that there is a common understanding of the problems that exist for our hauliers on the Swedish roads. But now we also need wise political decisions and measures to strengthen road safety. In order to strengthen road safety, it is important to strengthen customer responsibility. The client has a responsibility for what is happening on the roads, and it is not responsible to just choose the cheapest. It should be illegal to order illegal shipments! I've been a racer myself, and I know what shortcuts you can take for the goods to arrive on time. Larger customers have agreements that allow them to invoice the haulage company several hundred thousand or withhold compensation for goods that do not arrive in time. It is good that the industry's own organization is now rolling out Fair Transport, which will replace price competition with quality competition. Fair Transport wants to make it visible that there is sustainable transport to choose instead of just choosing the cheapest. Madam President, I would like Harmonisation of the EU acquis is important. Sweden should not have both tougher rules and higher penalties than other countries in Europe. It distorts competition. It is strange that there seems to be a willingness and ability in Sweden to overimplement EU directives in Swedish legislation. As an example of this, the committee saw that our neighbour Denmark has a more humane interpretation of driving and rest periods – small violations can be avoided if there is an explanation and a justification – and announced that Sweden should do the same interpretation. The answer was then that the directive does not open up for such a national derogation. I am frustrated that Sweden is not as solution oriented as other countries. The price for this is the working environment that is now in place, and it affects the drivers. The drivers are being hunted to keep time, and a few minutes too much are being punished with unreasonable fines. The roads are in worse condition and poorly maintained. New roads are being built to allow a go-kart rather than a truck to run on them. Roadwork and rush hour traffic are difficult to count, and there are no rest stops. Today, cars are not welcome into the city centre, and there are more truck bans than unloading sites. This places unreasonable demands on drivers in these environments, who are becoming increasingly difficult to carry out their work legally and safely. It is sad that the City of Stockholm does not seem to care about drivers' work environment. It often takes an unreasonable amount of time to answer questions about how loading and unloading can take place in the city centre. Madam President, I would like Cabotage is transport within the borders of a country carried out by a company registered outside its borders. Please look at all foreign vehicles that run our roads and think about what happens if the rules are not complied with and no one cares. The rules on cabotage have been adjusted. Comments may be available on whether it is for the better or for the worse, but most people's view is that cabotage rules have been toothless and compliance low. I think that the focus should be on compliance with and monitoring the new cabotage rules. More traffic police are needed so that cabotage is controlled and prosecuted when it is not managed. Road checks need to be increased, and the focus must be on ensuring fair competition on equal terms – equal for all. If vehicles are equipped with GPS, compliance with cabotage rules can be checked. It is frustrating that the first generation of smart tachographs does not have that function when both shipping and aviation have been able to do so. There you have tracked your vehicles and have had it for a long time. In order to verify compliance, traffic police officers are also required at the borders, according to the wisdom of the deportation, what is not controlled is not done. The government needs to be capable of action, for it needs to be strong in order to achieve healthy competition on Swedish roads. Safe parking places are needed – please look at those in Germany! More security cameras, more traffic police and GPS are needed in all cars to control cabotage traffic. The Moderates are behind all of their reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 2. Thank you to those who have listened!
i-LzLjAdvjGD7ghom26JjGZH	Madam President, I would like The heading of Report No 11 of the Committee on Transport and Tourism is Professional Transport and Taxi. Let me begin my speech with a statement: it has never been as easy to cheat as it is now. I repeat: it has never been as easy to cheat as it is now! The controls on the way are far too few to curb the criminal activity. In addition, controls at the premises of companies are marked statistical checks that are not based on competence and knowledge. We Swedish democrats support our reservations in the report, but for time to come, I only call for reservations 3 and 6. Transport of goods and people is a prerequisite for our modern society. Without transport, society ceases to function. Transport is a prerequisite for the functioning of industry, trade, health care and agriculture and forestry. Transports are also necessary for food in the stomach, clothing on the body and a house to live in. But the serious transport industry is exposed to unsound competition, and in the wake of the rogue activity there is another crime. Criminals acquire an exceptionally good tool when they access important logistics flows. In addition, criminals engage in pure trafficking in human beings when they exploit people in a strong position of dependence – or to use a more everyday term: slavery. Drivers are forced to live in their cars for months at a time. They do not receive reasonable compensation for the work they do. They are forced to manipulate the tachograph in order to drive even more, and they are forced to steal diesel in order to afford to let the engine run on idle to keep the heat in winter and cold in summer. Last week, the European Parliament adopted the so-called mobility package, and if it succeeds in the last round of negotiations, it could be a tool in the fight against the unhealthy transport industry. Regardless of the outcome of the final hearing, there must be physical checks on the roads at home. We need far more police and car inspectors on the roads to carry out these checks. Otherwise, the unhealthy and criminal activities will remain. In the fight against the unhealthy and criminal, you have a golden opportunity to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 3, because if you are serious about what you say, there must also be a workshop on the issue of controls. Madam President, I would like There is often talk of the importance of moving goods from road to rail, but the trend is in the opposite direction. It is so cheap to exploit the unhealthy transport market that serious road haulage and railway undertakings are being competed out. On Tuesday, the promotion of rail transport published an article highlighting the problems of unfair competition in a very clear way. There is no chance in the world of moving goods from road to rail as long as the unhealthy and criminal activities are allowed to continue. On Tuesday, the committee was visited by the inspection companies, and I asked, among other things, whether they were discovering manipulated Adblue equipment. The answer was expected – they see only vehicles prepared for inspection. They pointed out that there is an economic interest in manipulating the exhaust gas cleaning of vehicles and that the police are best placed to detect these vehicles. Manipulating exhaust gas cleaning has a serious impact on the environment and human health. Manipulation of both Adblue equipment and tachographs has become such a common feature of the transport industry that refined traffic police say it's like fishing in an aquarium. Can the situation be described more clearly than that? If we are to tackle the manipulation of tachographs and exhaust gas cleaning, penalties and fines must be significantly increased. Manipulating these important functions is a conscious act to usurp advantages over competitors. But it takes controls out on our roads to get us to the cheat. Now it's up to the rest of you to prove it! Are you serious about your speech about increased road safety, better environment and order on the roads? If you support our reservations 3 and 6 at the forthcoming vote, you show in active action that you are prioritising these issues. Madam President, I would like Last Friday I visited my former colleagues at the traffic police and looked at the equipment they found in manipulated vehicles. They had a whole box of equipment seized, and today this material is used for training police and car inspectors. I understand that Members should be restrictive in showing things during the parliamentary debates because it is the spoken word that applies in this House. With the President's good memory, however, I have brought with me this remote control and donor, which belongs to the police educational material. This is not a demonstration, but the objects provide factual information on the matter. What I now have in my hand is a remote control, and it may not be so extraordinary in itself. But with this equipment, I can press a button and turn off the tachograph. Then I press a button to start it again. You can make a comparison with the watch I have behind my back. If I want to continue speaking without being affected by it, I could press the button on the remote to stop time. Then when I think it fits, I could start it again. So the equipment used to manipulate is no greater than that it fits into my hand. In the recorded information stored in the tachograph and driver's card, it looks like I've taken my daily rest period, even though I keep driving my truck. The operation of the impulse sensor is quite simple, and it allows the driver to control how the tachograph should register the working day. This type of manipulation is invisible to the authority carrying out the checks in the undertaking. All information in the driver card and tachograph is fixed using the manipulation equipment. It is therefore important to strengthen road checks and return business controls to those carrying out these roadside checks. This will enable rapid and effective action to be taken when deficiencies are detected on the roads. Madam President, I would like Some time ago, a police officer wrote a letter to the Minister for Infrastructure. The reason for the letter was precisely the fact that there is a lot of talk about what measures have been taken, but it does not have an impact on the ground. Let me give you some quotes from the letter. The first quote: Order and know the roads you get not just because you want it – you have to do something concrete. We need to understand how serious the problems actually are. It also requires a sincere willingness to do more. The second quote: Most often when we have trampled vehicles pending a sanction fee, this will be paid within 24 hours. Those who do not pay within 24 hours also do not pay within 36 hours, as has been shown. The conclusion is that the clamping must remain in place until the measure has been implemented. The third quote: The 100 million crowns for the Politigheten's work to develop cabotage controls is something that is politically used as a flagship. At the time of writing, 75 million have been paid to the Agency, but of these 75 million, only 2.6 million have been used to train traffic police and car inspectors in the country. It is about 380 people. About half of these work only with road crime or behavioral surveillance. They also deal with drug-driving and therefore have neither the time nor the opportunity to carry out cabotage checks. A reasonable question in this context is: Where is the rest of the money? Madam President, I would like In February, the police carried out a national traffic week with checks on professional traffic. In view of the extremely limited resources available to the police, the result is appalling. A total of 851 trucks and 541 taxis were checked. The result is correct for reflection. Among the vehicles checked were 367 infringements of driving and rest times, 80 cases of overload, 16 drunk driving offences, 37 cases of obstruction of continued travel, 146 speed violations, 15 tampered or unattended tachographs and 9 cabotage cases. In addition, 2 weapons and 3 wanted persons were found. So this was for a week. Officials with high and specialised skills are a prerequisite for coping with this type of control because of the complexity of professional traffic regulations. If we are serious about the assertion of order and order, it is high time politics delivered. The serious companies in the transport industry and their employees can rightly expect us politicians to act in the interests of a healthy transport market. Do you remember my introduction? It has never been as easy to cheat as it is now. It is high time that we in the Swedish Parliament put our foot down and do something about this.
i-655963132ff88907-891	Madam President, I would like The very fundamental position of the Centre Party in terms of professional transport, whether it be freight or passenger transport with lighter or heavier vehicles, is that competition in all situations must take place on equal terms and in accordance with the regulatory framework we have set up in the country and jointly within the European Union. This is very logical and self-evident. That is how we reason on all other nutrition policies. Entrepreneurship must take place on fair and equal terms. There is, of course, no reason to take a different approach when it comes to transport. The success of this requires both European and common regulatory frameworks. The flow of traffic takes place across national borders. However, it also requires us, as a country and a member of the European Union, to be very forward-looking and energetic in terms of complying with the acquis within the framework and legislation we are setting ourselves, and, as the previous speaker said, there are enough properly trained people who can carry out the necessary supervision. It is therefore a good thing that the European Parliament has now agreed to proceed with some vital elements of what has long been called the EU's mobility package. These are questions about the Posting of Workers Directive, i.e. workers' conditions, and the cabotage rules, i.e. how much domestic traffic a Swedish haulage company can perform in Denmark before it has to roll back to Sweden or vice versa. There we know that there has been a great deal of slippage. It is also about the so-called combi directive, which has been an addition in Sweden that has meant a space to slip on, as well as about the requirement that the weekly rest required if you are to comply with working time legislation is not allowed to take place in the vehicle. Much of this will be in place once a new European Parliament has been elected in Europe. Think of who you are sending to the European Parliament so that they confirm a decision that has already been taken. However, it is not enough for us to have a new European regulatory framework, Madam President, but it is also about what we do with it in the framework of Swedish legislation and the exercise of Swedish authority. Although the police and the Swedish Transport Agency have been given increased powers to stop trucks, drivers and easier transport when cabotage is carried out in a way that is incompatible with the rules in force, we can at the same time see that there are not enough people to carry out controls on heavy traffic. There is also a need to meet representatives of legislation and regulations on the road. As a centre party, I am concerned about this. Even if we get a better regulation in place, it risks leading to continued cheating on cabotage, driving and rest times, drunk driving and other illegal activities in an unhealthy haulage business. For this reason, we in the Center Party are very keen to see more so-called traffic police. There is no difference between traffic police and other police officers, but a traffic police officer has acquired special expertise in the field of traffic offences. However, it also requires field officials from the Swedish Transport Agency on the road to have both more supervision and better coordination between the various activities. Here also authorities such as the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Transport Administration and others must help. Often when we meet officials from the Swedish Transport Agency or the police, we are told that they believe that they are not only few in number but that it is also difficult to recruit. To become a traffic police officer is not the most frequently chosen career path, if I put it that way. It could be a lot of things. I and the Center Party believe that, within the framework of the police authority we have, it is very important to ensure that the career path of being a police officer on roads, streets and squares in order to keep track of illegal activities relating to road transport must also be a good career path. It is also believed that it is difficult to find people with the right skills to carry out technical checks and other things. The question is whether there are still people with a great deal of competence in terms of technology, vehicle combinations, vehicle condition and so on. There may be competence within structures other than the state itself, such as inspection staff or equivalent, which carry out similar checks on a daily basis within the framework of their profession. Perhaps they could broaden their field of competence? I think it would be possible to solve some of the staff shortages that way. Of course, we in the Center Party support the reservations we have made in this report, but for the time to come, I only ask for reservation 4.
i-655963132ff88907-903	Madam President, I would like We know that there are frauds in the haulage industry and that the industry is exposed to fierce international competition. For freedom of movement to function within the EU, there must be a level playing field within the Union. One problem that makes controls more difficult is that several EU countries' vehicle registers are not available to our controlling authorities. In order for the single market to work, we believe that all EU countries' vehicle registers should be open to Member States' control authorities. Another problem that distorts competition is that the Swedish Transport Agency's company controls only concern companies registered in Sweden. Foreign companies are controlled by police, but unfortunately there are too few traffic policemen who control professional traffic. This means that the risk of a foreign driver getting stuck in a driving and rest check is small. There is also a need for better cooperation between different authorities, such as the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Transport Agency, to combat fraud in the transport sector. Madam President, I would like The regulatory framework in the transport sector is tough in order to prevent cheating, but we get signals from individual entrepreneurs that the rules have become too difficult to deal with for those companies that are trying to comply with today's laws and regulations. We believe that these signals must be taken seriously. We also believe that the Swedish Transport Agency imposes too high fines for minor deviations that hauliers have little or no opportunity to influence. Furthermore, we believe that the tachographs that companies have to install should be user-friendly, so that companies do not suffer unnecessary penalties. Further, we believe that the Swedish Transport Agency's supervision of haulage companies needs to be more fair and legally secure. Madam President, I would like The industry should be able to operate on a level playing field. That is not the case today, and it needs to be addressed. One possibility may be to fine or trample riders when they violate environmental, speed or working time rules. With regard to clamping, there are currently possibilities to trample a vehicle under 36 hours, which is a good thing, but the law should also be revised in the long term so that it will be possible to trample a vehicle until fines or penalties are paid. Madam President, I would like The liberalisation of the Swedish taxi market in the 1990s has led to a wider range of taxi companies and jobs. This is positive and welcome. At the same time, however, we can see that the reform has also led to some problems in taxi operations. Among other things, there is information that tourists are tricked into paying overcharges for taxis. In addition to these problems, drivers are also exposed to threats and violence. In order to stop rogue drivers in the taxi industry, a number of regulatory measures have been taken aimed at creating a fairer industry. These include the Act on Accounting Centres, which entered into force on 1 January 2017, and that since 1 May 2017, taxi companies are obliged to transfer taxametre data to so-called accounting centres, which in turn will be obliged to provide data to the Swedish Tax Agency. Furthermore, a requirement has been introduced for taxi drivers to submit a binding price statement to the customer before a journey begins. In order to ensure compliance with rules, it is important that supervision and controls are carried out against any fraud in the taxi industry. We believe that good information efforts are needed. Enhanced regulatory controls are necessary to ensure compliance with the new rules in the taxi industry. Madam President, I would like Today, taxi drivers leave both a digital and a manual accounting. In our opinion, the manual accounting should be stopped when the taxis are connected to a reading center. This should facilitate the situation of taxi drivers. We therefore believe that the requirement for double accounting of the meter should be abolished. A conflict that is sometimes highlighted is the development of new transport services. We think it is a good thing that new transport services are being developed. I have talked to several women who, for example, use some digital transport agencies and who experience greater security as these companies register both who is travelling and who is driving. This system allows you to go in and see if the person you are going to travel with performs well. While this increases the security of customers, there are those who argue that these companies do not handle taxes and charges properly. We welcome new transport services at the same time as we believe that the authorities must work in such a way that competition is properly managed. In addition to the emergence of new transport services, we see how companies establish different forms of collaborative economy in the transport sector. This is a positive development from the point of view of congestion and the environment, but it is also important here that these developments take place in such a way that there is no unfair competition between those who are bound by rules and regulations and those who avoid them in different ways. At the same time, it is important to point out that no industry has eternal permanence, but in all societies the development of new goods and services is constantly taking place. It is a development that boosts society and provides new trading opportunities and jobs. We therefore believe that the whole transport sector must be active in the work on new technologies if the challenges and customer preferences of the future are to be met. Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 5. Thank you for the floor and wish everyone a happy Easter!
i-655963132ff88907-920	Madam President, I would like The industry is of great importance for the competitiveness of Swedish companies and also for the handling of goods and jobs in Sweden. Today, 650 000 Swedish-registered trucks are rolling in Sweden. This means an increase of 90 000 lorries, or 16%, in five years. To this we can add a large number of foreign companies transporting goods in Sweden. We in Sweden have high ambitions for the transfer of goods from road to rail and shipping, but with the current increase in the need for freight transport, the haulage industry will be responsible for the majority of freight transport in Sweden for a long time to come. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that, before the end of the current term of office, the European Parliament has now made a decision on the EU mobility package so that we have common rules in a number of areas across the EU, including cabotage and driving and rest periods for drivers. Common rules are important. Freight transport is cross-border, and there is very strong competition in the transport industry. Liberals believe that we must support serious road hauliers and strengthen the work against foreign and Swedish road hauliers engaged in illegal activities. Even if the police are given increased powers, it must be matched by the existence of sufficient traffic police and increased controls on heavy traffic. Otherwise, there is a risk that cheating with cabotage, driving and rest times and drunk driving will increase. Therefore, we liberals want to see, among other things, requirements for GPS transmitters for foreign registered hauliers under the cabotage regulations so that we can see when they are in Sweden and when they are outside Sweden's borders. We want more traffic policemen and, above all, that they really make it possible for these police officers to be on the ground – to relieve them of administrative burdens so that they can really work in the field. Finally, we also want to see better coordination between different authorities. All of this we want to do to combat crime in the transport sector. Madam President, I would like We are now debating commercial traffic and taxis, and I would therefore like to take this opportunity to raise the issue of the heavy shortage of drivers in the haulage industry. This is one of the reasons why many companies cannot expand today. In the future, self-driving trucks can take over many transports, and today a number of tests are under way with self-driving trucks without drivers. However, it will take many years for self-driving vehicles to remedy the shortage of drivers. We must therefore be aware of how the discussion about self-driving cars can make people today not choose to become drivers because they do not see a future in the driver's profession. This exacerbates today's shortage of drivers. We must therefore come up with a realistic scenario of how self-driving trucks will be introduced into society, thereby giving people confidence that the driver's profession has a future and not further aggravating the shortage of drivers. We must solve today's needs and, at the same time, set our sights on the future. It's really important. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to support Amendment No 4.
i-655963132ff88907-927	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all the forms of order sought. There were many of us who were relieved and happy when the so-called road package was voted through in the European Parliament last week. This is another important step for professional traffic in Sweden. We Social Democrats have worked hard with this particular package, despite great contradictions in both the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament, and hard work pays off. For us, it is obvious that there should be fair conditions in the labour market. This, of course, includes both professional and freight transport. It is about fair conditions of competition for hauliers, and it is about fair conditions for those who work in the industry. The Swedish transport industry has for a long time been exposed to price dumping, illegal cabotage transport and road haulage which systematically violate both the work environment and workers' rights. Quite exactly a year ago, we decided in this House to introduce client responsibility and new legislation to address the problems in Sweden. There were many of us who then pushed out after having struggled for many years to bring about legislation in this area. There is not one measure that solves these problems, but it is a battery of various efforts that must be made. In this context, I would like to highlight the work of Sweden's Åkeri companies and Transport companies on Fair Transport which was released this week. Their Fair Transport label will be able to make both clients and consumers aware and give the choice to buy a transport from a haulage company that meets legal requirements in terms of road safety, emissions and working environment. You will knowingly be able to buy a transport from a haulage company that measures, openly reports and takes responsibility for a continuous improvement. Through this initiative, responsibility moves not only to transport buyers but also to us as consumers and citizens so that we can make active and fair choices. The combination of customer responsibility, the Fair Transport label of the industry and the harmonisation of EU rules by the road package is the right way to go. When legislation, trade unions and employers go together to find ways and have the same purpose, we show the very best side of what we can achieve within the Swedish model. Madam President, I would like In Parliament, two Swedish parliamentarians, in particular, have pushed the issue of the road package with success. At first it was Jens Nilsson, who unfortunately after a short period of illness left us. His work has been taken over by Marita Marita, who has continued to pursue the issues equally urgently in order to achieve a healthy competitive environment. Ever since the Commission presented the mobility package, the government, and not least the Minister for Infrastructure, have also continued this work in the same way. It has taken time and has not been without the gnashing of teeth. The Council finally agreed in December. It has now been up in the European Parliament, just before it closes Parliament, as it did yesterday, to enter the electoral movement. It was really at the last moment. Now the proposals are on. As noted earlier, the elections to the European Parliament are important. It is important for Swedish commercial traffic, it is important for the nicest conditions and it is important to know what it is you will vote for in the upcoming elections. The road package means a lot of new things. This means, among other things, that lorries may drive no more than three cabotage journeys for seven days in our country in connection with international transport. It's not really news. The news is that you also have a cooling off-period. This means that when you have made these transports you have to be outside the country for five days before you have to make a new transport in the same country, in this case Sweden. The rules on secondment shall be clarified and strengthened. In addition, we're going to get smart tachographs. They will be introduced to ensure effective controls. Under the new rules, weekly rest periods will also not be allowed in the cabin. Perhaps most important is the exception for combined transport, which has enabled hauliers from other countries to drive in Sweden without registering their trucks. That rule will be removed. This derogation has meant that Swedish roads have been filled with drivers who drive under worse conditions than the Swedish drivers do. This leads to unhealthy competition, and it hits the whole industry, not just those who drive the trucks and the workers. It also hits the Swedish companies. Madam President, I would like I am pleased and proud that it still sounds like we are quite in agreement across party boundaries here in the Swedish Parliament. I am even a little impressed by the fact that the Moderates have a reservation on the theme that European work should be more harmonious. I am less impressed by the behaviour of the Swedish Moderates in the European Parliament. That's where they're against. The Swedish Moderates voted against, in so far as they took part in the vote. Talk about talking to a split tongue! Here the Moderates ask for a reservation, but in the European Parliament they vote against. For me, it's really about fair terms. And it's not just in the transport industry that I want the nicest conditions. In this Chamber, the Moderates and others say that the government is doing too little. What about a little fair play in front of the Swedish people? When we Social Democrats deliver – we have indeed done so; there has been solid social democratic footwork here – on matters that are important for employers and for workers, you rumble at home that it is not enough and is not enough. But when you get to decide in Brussels, you throw in the towel completely and vote against what you at home claim is too little. Shame pillow, I'd say. Really ashamed pillow! Madam President, I would like More rules, fewer stops and more days outside the country's borders will not be enough. The S-led Government has implemented a number of measures aimed at promoting fair competition. In the Good Strategy, the Government highlights strengthened cooperation between authorities. In various contexts, the Minister for Infrastructure has highlighted the need for a professional traffic inspection. I think it is important that the authorities responsible for the haulage industry, such as the police, the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Work Environment Agency and the Swedish Customs Agency, continue to work on the collaboration that exists today and strengthen it. In the same way, we must step up this cooperation at European level, with the supervisory authorities that are there. The number of traffic police has decreased over time. Of course it's a problem. Controls are A and O to tackle illegal cabotage activities. That is why the government allocated SEK 25 million per year in connection with the 2017 budget bill until 2020. Nearly 11 million more were allocated to develop the work of flying inspections. This has contributed to the Police Authority's involvement in the Swedish Transport Agency's development of regulations for flying inspections and competence requirements for inspectors. Madam President, I would like This is very important. The regulations belong where the competence is located and not here in the Swedish parliament. I am both surprised and a little worried when I read the Swedish Democrats' reservation. With all due respect for the professional background of individual Members of Parliament, I wonder how the Swedish Democrats think when in their reservation they indicate that car inspectors should carry weapons. A car inspector is a civilian employee of the police, Madam President. In the vast majority of cases, the car inspector is recruited from the car inspection and is working precisely to control professional traffic and to investigate things like driving and rest times, cargo, overweight and illegal transport. Auto-inspectors are also authorised to decide on fines. They have the right to prevent further travel. That's what they're supposed to do, that is, control the transports, and not shoot at them. Madam President, I would like During 2018, the Police Authority has trained 400 police officers and car inspectors. As a result of the training, the number of reported infringements has also increased. That's good. We must continue in this way. Here, the Committee on Transport and Tourism has been the driving force, and we will continue to be the driving force. Without sanctions, controls are ineffective. That is why, during the previous parliamentary term, we have imposed fines. Combined with squeezing, these problems will be addressed by tools. When a driver or a transport undertaking is in breach of the rules in force, the wheels of the vehicle can simply be locked up until fines have been paid. In particular, the measure was introduced to tackle the problem of foreign lorries driving illegal domestic transport in Sweden. The introduction has taken place in two stages, first for 24 hours and then for 36 hours. Of course, we need to evaluate this. Maybe it needs to be increased. Maybe that's enough. We need to evaluate the decisions we make. Madam President, I would like The taxi industry is another part of professional traffic that needs to be seen. In June last year, the Riksdag decided in accordance with the Government proposal A new category of taxi services that all taxi services, including the new category, should be easily controlled by authorities, especially the Swedish Tax Agency. This is a major step forward which will make it more difficult to cheat and that competition can take place on more equal terms. All taxi operations, regardless of what they call them, should account for their revenues in a fair and correct manner. However, there are currently problems in the taxi industry that we must continue to address. We have to keep calling them. It's about black taxi, of course. It's nothing new, but the methods of black taxis are changing. Today, problems with black taxi operations are growing through social media and Facebook groups. With the help of technology and smart solutions, accessibility has changed radically. Everyone needs to help here, including the digital platforms used to organise illegal and uncontrolled taxi operations. However, controls are a police matter. Through online reconnaissance and together with the Swedish Tax Agency, it should be possible to access those who engage in such activities. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to say that no one can say that Stefan Löfven and his government have not delivered when we talk about taxis or commercial traffic in general. As a committee, we have to monitor, follow up and continue to take new steps to achieve order and order in the transport sector. And we will continue to do so.
i-655963132ff88907-954	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Teres Lindberg. It was interesting to hear a description of my previous profession. You barred on a lot of things there. Let's take this armament thing. It may be helpful to read the whole text of the exercise. Then we would also have seen that we are proposing a upgrading of the skills of car inspectors. Then you can arm them, if necessary. This would be level with a policeman. But I may be allowed to do the same as I did when I was on the road and had drivers who didn't really know the situation: I had reading aloud. I would like to make a few other points, which annoy me a little bit. However, it is quite common for the Social Democrats to describe reality. It is absolutely right that two Members of this House worked hard on these issues. One was Jens Nilsson. I'm afraid he's deceased. The other is Peter Lundgren. Those who have arrived afterwards have inherited the work done by these two gentlemen. A more accurate description of reality would be desirable. I must ask Mr Teres Lindberg a question. How do the Social Democrats intend to solve the problem on the road if there are no people who can do the job? At my old workplace, when I was working in external service, there were three lucky teams of nine men on every lucky team. Today there are a total of five of them. At the place where I did my internship, there were 46 police officers in external service. There's four of them today. Of course, legislation can be tightened up, but it does not help if someone does not take the toolbox and go out. So how are you going to solve this?
i-655963132ff88907-960	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. Of course we have ambitions in this area. It is not for nothing that we have set aside 100 million to strengthen training and improve road checks. It's not really a matter for the Transport Committee, but the very idea of the police's new organisation and the reorganisation that they've been working on for many years – which has also been going on under different governments – is that the police should mainly devote themselves to being police officers. At the same time, we are going to increase the number of civilian employees. That's what these controllers are: they're civil servants. Their expertise is the control of the vehicles themselves, not being police officers, making arrests or being armed. These are two completely different entrances. I think this is a good development. I see no reason why the inspectors that the police have and that they will have to recruit more of in order to make the increased controls that we see need to be armed at all. That's not the thing. It's not that we have a lot of truck drivers sitting around threatening. They do a job for an employer who in many cases behaves very badly and does not manage their commitments or pays salaries that are fair with Swedish conditions. These are the issues we want to address. We do not want policemen or, for that matter, car inspectors who go around shooting at people, but we want to get the roads straight. In addition, it should be nice transport. That is why we want to review and be able to carry out the necessary checks.
i-655963132ff88907-966	Madam President, I would like I see a need for the members of the Transport Committee to come out and make a visit. The point is not that a car inspector should walk around shooting holes at cars or people. But in the midst of the control that is being carried out in the field of professional traffic, one can end up in situations where one must defend oneself. I went to an education myself in order to handle weapons if anything should happen. I wasn't armed, but I had to be able to take a gun from a policeman who had gone down to defend me and the others who were there. For this reason, it is important that the staff working outside can also defend themselves. Car inspector as service description should disappear. Instead, you can lift up this competence so that you can do the whole job. What it is all about is making a check on the road in order to ensure road safety. One should be able to strengthen the healthy haulage industry. Then there must be people of flesh and blood out there doing the job. There are no policemen available, and then you have to find other ways. For example, look at the drunk driving! We know that there is an upward trend in the number of road deaths affected by drugs and alcohol. But the number of blows goes down at the same time. In 2009, 2.7 million were blown. Last year, barely a million. We know there are people out there who are affected. We know that there are vehicles that drive in this country but that do not have to do here. However, no one can attack it because there are no people on the ground who can do checks.
i-655963132ff88907-972	Madam President, I would like There are many major challenges. I note, by the way, that Mr Morell, in his first reply, highlighted the efforts of an individual Swedish democrat. I think that's good. It's great that you're contributing here. The problem has been that your group has not followed. Like the Swedish Moderates, they have also opposed this. So it's not simply when you're going to emphasize yourself and when you're not going to do it. We Social Democrats are consistent and are clearly working to get the labour market in order. That is what it is all about. There must be nice conditions both for those who work and for the companies that exist in the industry. I do not think that this is as much of a concern as Mr Morell suggests. Car inspectors may well be civilian employees. I see no need to arm them. They must be competent and be able to carry out the necessary checks, and there must be enough of them. But I don't see any need for them to be full cops. I also noted that when Thomas Morell had his main speech, a number of words were used very frequently. Thomas Morell mentioned the word abstinence 13 times, the word abstinence eight times and the word abstinence ten times in a not too long speech. It might say more about how the Swedish Democrats view these issues. It is not a question of order, it is a question of a tougher control society. It's a society I don't want. I want to see a society of order, where people also get paid for the services they perform. We must have fair conditions, not unfair conditions that affect both workers and entrepreneurs in this country.
i-655963132ff88907-978	Madam President, I would like This evening we are debating the report of the Committee on Transport and Tourism 11, which deals with professional transport and taxis, and I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Professional transport is very important for all the transport that is needed in society to be carried out. An important question is whether transport is sustainable from both an environmental and a social point of view. As mentioned earlier, Fair Transport 2.0 was launched yesterday, which is the industry's way of stimulating more sustainable and decent transport. This is a positive initiative. At the same time, it is important that laws and regulations in both the social and environmental fields are the way we govern and regulate the transport sector. Of course, it is good with clients who make demands and that there is a movement forward in the industry, but we cannot just rely on voluntary efforts. We note that heavy goods vehicles still depend largely on fossil fuels and that working conditions in the transport sector are not always good. Many companies still cheat with driving and resting time rules, with heavy loads and more.
i-655963132ff88907-983	Much has happened in this area during the last term of office, and work within the EU and with mobility packages is happening even more. However, in order for laws and rules to be effective, they must be followed up. According to the latest state-of-the-art measurement of heavy road transport from 2015, Mr President, compliance with the rules is low in terms of driving and rest time rules, the technical nature of vehicles, cargo securing and speeds. All these things are, of course, essential to road safety. For example, the rules on driving and rest periods are about ensuring that the driver is so alert that the driver can drive the vehicle safely. Maintaining the rules promotes fair competition. A corresponding follow-up of traffic will be carried out this spring. In the freight transport strategy, the Government highlights the importance of well-functioning controls and intends to review how regulatory compliance on the move can be improved in order to combat unfair competition. For example, there may be enhanced coordination between authorities or how modern technologies can be used in order to make controls more effective. But, as I said, much has already been done. It has been introduced for 36 hours. The exchange of sanctions has been carried out, and the customer responsibility has been strengthened. There have also been investments in the police. The Swedish Police Authority's funding in accordance with the budget proposal for 2017 has been increased by SEK 25 million per year for the period 2017 – 2020 as a one-off effort to combat illegal cabotage operations and by SEK 10.7 million from 2017 to develop the work on flying inspections. The police are working on education and training so that more police officers and car inspectors can follow up on heavy traffic. I would like to return to the issue of sustainable transport. Further measures are needed to make the necessary conversion possible. The Green Party has for a long time been working to introduce a distance-based tax on lorry traffic, a so-called road wear tax, which equalises differences between Swedish and foreign hauliers. The tax would be lower where alternatives are lacking and steer towards more environmentally friendly trucks. We from the Green Party want to see more goods by rail and by sea. This means that the competitive environment for rail and maritime freight transport needs to be strengthened in comparison with lorry traffic. At the same time, heavy goods vehicles need to become more fossil-free. Here we need to work on several measures. I would particularly like to highlight the potential of biogas. There are now good opportunities to operate heavy-duty vehicles with gas without either heavy batteries or the need for comprehensive continuous charging infrastructure. Many cities today choose to switch to electrified urban traffic, but for the more long-distance bus transport and for trucks biogas fits well as fuel. I would also like to mention briefly taxis, which are also dealt with in this report. I see taxis as part of public transport. It is a complement for trips at times when the bus does not go and to places where there is no line or where there is no stop. New mobility services are of course interesting, but the sustainability perspective must also be added here. Facilitating the combination of different transport so that a car does not have to be something a person owns is positive, but it is important that the new mobility services do not undermine job security or lead to increased road traffic. Technology must work for our interests. In conclusion, sustainability, both ecological and social, must be the guiding principle in the work of commercial transport and taxis, Mr President.
