i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-3	Mr President, I would like to Michael Anefur has asked me what measures the government has taken since the Riksdag decided that responsibility for care for co-morbidity in the form of mental illness combined with addiction should be brought together with a principal. Michael Anefur has also asked me whether I share Parliament's concern that many people find themselves in an impossible middle position when no authority feels an overall responsibility. The announcement to review how responsibility for co-morbidity care in the form of mental illness combined with addiction disease can be met by a principal at present within the Government Office. I will come back to this as soon as possible. The issue of co-morbidity is not new to the government. It is a matter that the government has a high priority. As early as August 2018, the Government commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to map the prevalence of co-morbidity in the form of mental illness and addiction problems. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare will also analyse how the collaboration between different activities works and how this affects the conditions for good care. The authority shall, if they see such needs, make suggestions on how health care and care can be improved through collaboration. The assignment will be completed on 30 November 2019. The report will be an important basis for improving the situation of people with co-morbidity. In order to strengthen efforts in the area of mental health, the Government has entered into an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council and allocated nearly SEK 1.8 billion in 2019, of which SEK 200 million is added to municipalities and regions at county level to improve collaboration for people who need contributions from several principals, such as people with co-morbidity. The entire agreement aims to stimulate development, and the total amounts correspond to an increase of SEK 360 million compared to 2018. I have also taken the initiative and started extensive work on developing a renewed strategy for alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco policy. The strategy will take effect in 2021. People with co-morbidity in the form of mental illness and addiction and addiction are a particularly vulnerable group. I have followed, among other things, the mission review report on Sanne and share the concern that people do not receive the care and care they need. Today, there is a great deal of knowledge that the possibility of worsening disease development and adherence to treatment is increased in those who suffer from co-morbidity. The National Board of Health and Welfare's national guidelines state that it is therefore important to pay attention to co-morbidity and to help people with co-morbidity with both permits at the same time. In order to strengthen the conditions for cooperation between county councils and municipalities, provisions were introduced in the Health and Social Services Act and the Social Services Act on the obligation to enter into cooperation agreements in 2013. The aim is a clearer division of responsibilities, a better collaboration and a holistic approach based on the user's needs. The principals were given relatively large scope to jointly determine how the division of responsibilities should be designed and how the content of the agreements should be specified. Problems arise when no one takes overall or main responsibility, which can apply both between the principal and the principal. I would therefore like to stress the importance of the heads taking their joint responsibility to provide the individual with the care and support they need. The government is now making major efforts to improve people's mental health. These initiatives enable municipalities and regions to develop care and support for people with co-morbidity.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-11	Mr President, I would like to The Minister's answer is eloquent and well worded. In Christmastime, you can say that it's almost wrapped up like a nice package. You can almost sense the glitter and ripples and expectations from the receiver when the package is to be opened. You tie up the strings. The paper is carefully removed. And then you lift the lid. What a disappointment! It's almost hard to take in. The package is empty! The only thing you can imagine at the bottom is a promise that next time there might be content in the package. That's not good enough. Mr President, I would like to This is not just any question. Common illness is among the most vulnerable and vulnerable in our society. They're supposed to have all the help and support. No one who saw the story about how Sanne was balled between health care and social services may have missed that something in the system is really wrong. It is inhumane that already exposed people should be exposed to this balling. And not only that they are intertwined between health care and social services – often a third authority, the police, has to spend a lot of resources on transporting people between mental health, shelter and social services. We all know that the resources of the police are limited. Yet thousands of hours are spent on these transports, which could be avoided if someone took full responsibility for the co-disease. Mr President, I would like to For me, this is undoubtedly reason enough to investigate with the utmost urgency what the future picture of responsibility should be. The Minister's reply is that the Government Office prepares the announcement and that she intends to return as soon as possible. To my mind, it does not sound like either the Minister or the Government Office giving priority to the issue. My question to the minister is: When can the parliament expect that, as soon as it is possible, there will be?
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-14	Mr President, I would like to The issue of co-morbidity is not about glitter or ripples. I do not in any way hope that anyone will perceive it that way. However, as I believe Michael Anefur is well aware, this is a very complex issue which, without any kind of investigation, will be difficult to change, because it includes all the principals, the government and the municipalities. The announcement from the Riksdag came as late as last spring. Quite a short time has elapsed. I think that many people who listen to the discussion think that there is nothing to be done. But I think that Michael Anefur, who has experience from the Government Office, knows that it takes time to prepare a comprehensive mission. We'll get back to you. I can't say any more than that today. Not until the ink has dried and we have made a decision, I can tell you what it will contain. But I can say so much as that we do not in any way go waiting and think we have plenty of time. On the contrary, we are working intensively on the issue. I would also like to say that the resources for health care are not insignificant. Resources for social services and preventive work to prevent young people from getting caught up in addiction are also essential and important. One should not make this a mere question of principals; it is also a question of how one works. Responsibility already exists today. There is no one working in social services, psychiatry or health care who can say: This is not my question – let someone else take care of this patient! It has a duty to cooperate and cooperate. As Swedish healthcare looks, with high ambitions and an enormous amount of excellence, almost regardless of the principal will require collaboration between different parties. It is not enough for municipalities and regions to be able to work together or for one of the principals to be given overall responsibility. This also applies to cooperation within the principal, and I am thinking in particular within the region. It was something we could see when it came to Sanne in Mission Review. It was also a balling within the framework of the principal, the whole of Region Stockholm in general. Regardless of when we come to the question of headship, one must see that this target group requires cooperation and collaboration. I would also like to add some that were not included in the answer, which I think Michael Anefur will know for sure, but which I would like to take this opportunity to mention. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with carrying out experimental activities in a number of places in the country, where municipalities and regions together, within the Sis framework, simply make sure to carry out an activity in which the people who have both an addiction and a psychiatric diagnosis have both the skills under the same roof. That is rarely the case today. We could say that we are doing this across the board. But let's start with a few places. There is no reason to wait if it turns out to have good results. Then we can switch up that work, and more can carry out that activity. I think it's extremely important. However, in anticipation of investigations and the fact that the issue of headship has been reviewed, everyone in social services and health care must assume their responsibilities and cooperate.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-20	Mr President, I would like to I can understand from the Minister's reply that the resources of the Government Office are under great strain. Possibly it is because they are used to investigate a lot of other things, such as the removal of military tax, the introduction of family week and free years, etc. These are reforms that are not enough to demand, and even fewer will be involved. I also realise that it is easy for the 73 points in the form of cooperation to be given priority in government work. But this is about solving real problems for vulnerable people, and then it is not good enough that it takes too long. At the same time, it is very difficult to understand the slowness. I have spent a lot of time reading the Socialstyrelsen's report that came last Friday, Mapping of co-morbidity in the form of mental illness and addiction problems. I assume that the Minister has done the same. It is in long sections an interesting and educational reading where you go through the current situation, the complexity, the difficulties and more. What is striking when you read the report is that it is repeatedly pointed out that the difficult problem is that the sufferer is being handled by two principals. Time and again, the reasoning that there are legal, administrative, organisational and economic problems among the two principals prevents the individual from being adequately assisted in the situation. This has been noted for a long time by the profession, the sick themselves, associations and relatives. The Swedish Parliament also saw this unanimously this spring. Now it's just to hope that the government realizes the same thing that all of us have realized. Can we hope, however, that the government and its support parties will at least be able to admit as quickly as possible that it is time to change organisation?
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-24	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the government has many questions on its table. I could mention a few. For example, it is a major primary care reform that takes a lot of time and effort. I am absolutely convinced that it is necessary for the entire Swedish health care system to function better and for the close care to really be both close and accessible and work preventively. Cancer strategy is also a work that takes a lot of time. It is not that the good results and the increased survival of children who get cancer, but also of many of our other cancers, come on their own. It's about resources, governance and collaboration. It is also a matter of fixed care in order for elderly care to work better and for those in need of both elderly care and home care and also have many care contacts. It is about taking steps to remove the pensioner's tax that Michael Anefur's party has been involved in introducing in this country and now taking another step in the budget before Christmas, with a sixth job tax deduction. It was the priority to use 20 billion to reduce tax. We now have a further effort to make sure that pensioners have the same tax as those who work. A new form of care for mental illness feels very relevant. There are many contexts where the question is asked: How do we work to prevent and get in early on when it comes to mental illness? These are just a few examples that can be mentioned. I could add the 34-point programme, which the government is also working on. Unfortunately, the Christian Democrats did not remain in those talks. It is about breaking the gang crime that exists, but also about reconstruction efforts, where the social services carry out a large and intensive work. In reply to this speech, I can say that Michael Anefur could have some dialogue with his party friends in regions and municipalities. They have a responsibility to cooperate. The government is doing what it can at national level. We are working on the announcement that came from Parliament as late as last spring. We've been assigned a mission to the National Board of Health and Welfare. It came back on Friday. Of course, a lot of the proposals that lie there we want to take advantage of and be able to put into a future proposal. Much is happening, but reality can change even without a change of law. This can be done, for example, through political will in municipalities and regions.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-31	Mr President, I would like to It is not for my sake, nor for the sake of the Christian Democrats, nor even for the sake of Parliament or the Government that I am pushing and for a long time has pushed the issue of a common head in the case of co-morbidity for dependents with mental ill health. We can wait this year, next year and maybe another year. I'll do it for Sanne and the rest at least 30,000 co-morbids. It is all of them who yesterday, today and tomorrow must have help now. They are balled between different principals without adequate help. Mr President, I would like to To be frank, unlike us, they do not have time to wait. They need help now. They really needed help yesterday. Then I agree with the Minister that in the meantime, of course, we will work all we can with the SIP and all that can be called it. But we see, and so does the National Board of Health and Welfare's investigation, that it is not enough. We've tried and tried, but it's not working well enough. It is required that we conduct an investigation about headship and do a proper search, I hope that we will nevertheless join forces to get there as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for a fine answer.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-34	Mr President, I would like to You can have many different tones in an interpellation debate. This is particularly true in an issue where there is a very large consensus. I would have expected a certain understanding that many different efforts can be made. Perhaps we can have a discussion on the proposal, report, conclusions and evaluation of the National Board of Health and Welfare that came on Friday. Let's get back to that. This initiative was taken before Parliament's announcement was made. It's not about someone thinking you want to wait. I can stress that I rarely, if ever, do things for myself or for the government. In my role as Minister of Social Affairs, I meet many people, groups, organisations and representatives who really need the support of society. That is the very foundation of the well-being that we have in this country, the reason why we all pay taxes according to our ability and get as needed. It drives me every day, and nothing else. I'm thinking we should look at what the National Board of Health and Welfare has reported on. When we prepare the question of headship in the Government Office, I know that Michael Anefur knows what that means. Perhaps it is clear if I tell everyone who listens that we are preparing for such an investigation. Of course we respond to the announcements made by the Riksdag. In addition, it was an issue that was already on the agenda. It is positive that we have a consensus. Finally, I would like to stress that, pending the creation, operation and results of the investigation, it is important that everyone who already has a responsibility under law today should not ignore that responsibility. If you have a responsibility by law, that applies. This applies to all those responsible in municipalities and regions, and I think that we should do everything we can to influence all those who work with and are responsible for these activities every day.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-38	Mr President, I would like to Ulla Andersson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the four municipalities Ludvika, Aneby, Ödeshög and Nordanstig introduce habilitation compensation and how far the legislative process has come to make habilitation compensation compulsory in the municipalities. Daily activity is an operation under the Act (1993:387) on support and service to certain disabled people. Persons participating in this form of activity may receive a habilitation allowance from the municipality. The purpose of the compensation is to actively encourage the individual to participate in the activity. I share Ulla Andersson's view that daily activities are important, even if they are not a so-called common form of employment. It is voluntary for municipalities to pay habilitation compensation. However, as Ulla Andersson mentions, in 2018, the Government introduced an incentive grant of SEK 350 million to support the municipalities in their efforts to stimulate participation in daily activities by, for example, introducing or raising a low daily allowance. In 2018, a total of 198 municipalities requisitioned funds from the National Board of Health and Welfare, which has the task of paying the state grant to municipalities, of which 24 had not previously received habilitation compensation. As a result of the state grant, municipalities have both introduced and increased the remuneration of people in daily activities. Several municipalities chose not to requisition funds. There are several reasons for that. Among other things, the municipalities have expressed uncertainty about where the limit is too low remuneration and concerns about the long-term sustainability of the state grant. The Government therefore clarified this year that the state contribution may also be used to maintain a previous increase. For me and the government, it is important that the habilitation allowance is used, and that is why we are following the issue.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-43	Mr President, I would like to Daily activity is about respect for people. It is about being exploited, being in a context and having important and functional employment. It is also, of course, a question of getting paid for the activity and activity you participate in and the work you do. In short, this is a question of dignity and respect and being exploited. It is also a matter that is close to my heart. In its preparatory work, it can be read that those involved in day-to-day activities should receive compensation for their participation. But today, according to Swedish Radio, four municipalities still have no payment: Ludvika, Nordanstig, Ödeshög and Aneby. During the previous term of office, the Left Party in the budget negotiations with the government pushed the question of the right to habilitation compensation. We then got through the state grant to which the Government refers. The purpose of the state grant was to get the money out quickly, because a large number of municipalities did not pay for the participation. During the time when the state contribution would exist, a legislative process would also be initiated that would impose an obligation on the municipalities to pay. When the Left Party began working to produce data to see what it looked like around Sweden, we could quite easily conclude that the statistics were inadequate. I believe that this is also a matter of lack of interest or of insufficient priority. The evidence we obtained at the time showed that approximately 40 municipalities did not pay any compensation and that the average compensation at the time was approximately SEK 34 per day. Some municipalities paid only lunch and subsidies for the trip. Some paid nothing at all. Some municipalities paid per hour, some paid per half day and some paid per full day. It looked very different. The state grant has done some good; we can see that because there are at least four municipalities left today that do not pay any compensation. So there are a large number of people who have at least started such work, and that is a good thing in itself. I would like to thank the Government for its answer. To the first question, I have received the answer that the Government intends to follow the question of the four municipalities and their habilitation pay. That is an answer, but perhaps not the answer I had really expected. I would like to ask a supplementary question on this: does the Government consider that these municipalities should also introduce habilitation compensation? The second question, the legislation in force, has not been answered at all. The then ongoing LSS investigation received an additional assignment to review the remuneration for daily operations. That is also why I asked the follow-up question about how far that legislation has gone. Nevertheless, it is a response to the lack of awareness and respect of these four municipalities. If the legislation were to come into place, it would be binding. Moreover, a state subsidy is already in place, so it would cost the state nothing more than the money already in the state budget that the Left Party has negotiated.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-52	Mr President, I would like to I will try to answer Ulla Andersson's questions. Do I think that the remaining four municipalities should introduce habilitation compensation? Yes, I think so. That is why SEK 350 million exists, not only as an incentive for those who already have habilitation compensation but as an incentive for those who do not have habilitation compensation to introduce it. I think it is very clear what the state and government are thinking about the habilitation compensation. I am not promising any legislation here and now. That's why Ulla Andersson can't read it from the interpellation response. There is also no preparation documentation from the LSS investigation that is ready and that we can use. The third question I would like to devote some time to because Ulla Andersson is also so well versed in the budget, in how state subsidies work and so on. If we were to decide on legislation on habilitation compensation, I find it difficult to see that SEK 350 million, which is now available as an incentive to introduce or increase compensation, would suffice. Then we have a different funding principle. I am just saying this to supplement the question. One cannot ignore the fact that there is a completely different principle, namely that the State should pay from the first crown in what is today a habilitation allowance. I really have nothing else to add, but I would like to agree with Mrs Ulla's introduction and underline what I have said myself in the interpellation response: it is incredibly important that there should be daily activities as part of all other activities within the framework of the LSS. I would like to thank Ulla Andersson for raising the issue because we often forget it. We are talking about personal assistance and perhaps some other parts, but there is far too little talk about this. Not so long ago, I met a representative of FUB in a municipality in southern Sweden who was incredibly upset, not because there was no habilitation compensation at all, but because the majority of the municipality did not agree to seek the incentive in order to increase the habilitation allowance. I realize that there are many who go with expectations, and the opportunity exists. To be honest, I find it really difficult to understand why you are not just looking for the habilitation allowance that you can apply for if you have not so far been able to extract the resources from the municipal budget. For anyone who might listen and has not sought: these are resources that can be used to introduce habilitation compensation, to increase an existing habilitation compensation and to maintain a habilitation compensation that has been raised. It is also long-term. We have not said that this is something that exists only for a year, but it is a long-term one. I think that this is clear information about what the expectations of government and state are.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-60	Mr President, I would like to It is good that there is clear information and that it is long-term. I think that's also an important signal out to local government. When we looked at which municipalities it was that did not pay compensation, we could see that it was often small municipalities and rural municipalities that probably had difficulties with the economy. During that term of office, several municipalities also withdrew the compensation. I was myself in several municipalities and met with those who were affected by having their compensation withdrawn. They were very upset, and that's understandable. There they were working, and they were no longer paid for their work. I am concerned that this will happen again. Since this is not a statutory activity and savings are now rolling out across Sweden, there is a great risk that these activities will again be affected. I told him that I've been out and met many of those who are in daily business. I have also listened to the arguments of at least two of the municipalities that do not now have compensation for those who participate in daily activities, including Ludvika. There is the justification, on the one hand, for wanting a signal from the state that the state thinks it should introduce this – hence my question to the Government – and, on the other hand, that it believes that the important thing is to have good quality. However, no investment in good quality had been made. They removed the compensation about 2007, and then they just left it that way. I find that disturbing in itself and a lack of respect. Nordanstig justifies this by the fact that they have such poor quality in the business, and then one should perhaps not be paid for going there. I think it says quite a lot about the approach that perhaps unfortunately characterises some municipalities. Ludvika believes that if you had compensation, it would not stimulate increased participation, or it could be seen as some form of charity. It is not arguments that go on at any point, I would say. The government contribution of 350 million will surely not be enough if legislation is implemented; I admit that. Then the question is how much it would cost. Since the statistics are inadequate, no one is likely to know. Perhaps it is something that the responsible minister can take with him. Perhaps we need to look at how the statistics of these activities are collected so that we can have a better basis for decisions. Nevertheless, I hope that there will be a change in the legislation. That, in any case, was what the Left Party and the Social Democrats agreed on last parliamentary term, when we felt it needed to be done. Now there are four municipalities left, but the question is what happens when the savings come. Perhaps there will be more people who will then again withdraw the compensation. Like I said, this is something that worries me. However, I appreciate the fact that the Government gave the clear message that she believes that these state subsidies should be applied for and habilitation payments introduced. I think that's good. Then I also hope that we will come to legislation. Unfortunately, I think it will be necessary.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-69	Mr President, I would like to I have no comment on the various local arguments. Ulla Andersson and I share the same view, namely that the person involved in a daily activity should have a habilitation allowance. Otherwise it would not be paid SEK 350 million annually from the state to introduce or increase a habilitation compensation. I think it's very clear what it stands for. Actually, I don't have much more to add. I would like to say once again that I believe that only this issue is being discussed is important. I would like to underline that once again. The risk is very great that this will be a group, a fairly large group, which no one thinks is worth talking about. There are always others shouting louder, there are always groups that are larger and there are issues that take more space and create bigger headlines. Once again, I would like to thank Ulla Andersson for her interpellation. We do not agree here today that legislation should be introduced, but I am very pleased that today there are at least four municipalities that claim it. When I say that I am following the question, I mean it, because it is clear that it is of great interest to know what actually happened. SEK 350 million is no small stimulus. Sometimes incentives are something that municipal representatives may shrug their shoulders a little – there's no point in looking for it there, it gives almost nothing, it costs more than it tastes, it's a lot of co-financing. That's not the way it is. Therefore, I use this channel one more time and say to those who listen: It's not a lot of co-financing. It's not money that's available for a year. They're long-term. The money can be used both to introduce habilitation compensation, to raise a low habilitation allowance and to maintain an increased habilitation allowance, so that one does not think that we need to increase further each year. You can have that ambition. I don't mind. But that is not what we expect for the state subsidy that is being paid.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-74	Mr President, I would like to The ambition to raise you are welcome to have, says the Government. I can agree with that. I think the highest compensation today is SEK 90 per day. At least that's what I've been able to find out. I suppose that also says something about the level of compensation. I would like to emphasise once again respect for the work carried out in daily activities and how important it is. I would also like to raise the pride of those who work in the business when they show what they are actually doing. There are also municipalities that have a very developed business where you really catch up and take advantage of what the participants actually want to do. There is everything from being in the postal service at retirement homes or taking care of coffee shops to being part of bingo activities. Then there are traditional lego jobs, and there are newspapers, radio and so on. There are very good activities around. The government is very clear, and I think that is a good thing. But I also think that the Government could perhaps take this internally in its own party. Of these four municipalities, three have social democratic government. I think that perhaps you should send the signal in two ranks, so to speak, both from here and into your own party. It's important. I don't think Ludvika, Nordanstig, Ödeshög or Aneby should be able to do this. These municipalities also need to show respect for those involved in day-to-day activities. And that you should be paid for the work you do, I think is actually a minimum requirement we can impose on municipalities. Thank you for your answer.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-80	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank Ulla Andersson for allowing us to have this discussion on International Rights Day. Then we can discuss this every day, but it feels reasonable. I have the same demands and expectations for all municipalities, no matter who controls them, in my role as Minister of Social Affairs. Then I have been very clear about my views in my previous speeches. It is very positive if the discussion on habilitation compensation is also about why you get habilitation compensation. I do not believe that there is anyone who prefers compensation for habilitation rather than that we are also discussing the activities themselves. When, for example, I opened the new retirement home in Ö-vik a few years ago, it was just day-to-day activities that managed part of the new café. They were in exactly the same clothes as the nurses and carers and were really part of the gang. It was amazing to see. It is important that you really work purposefully in the municipalities and think: If everyone now has a place in our municipality, where do they have that place? What does it look like? How do we create truly meaningful employment? If there are now municipalities that feel that they do not have good enough quality, that is insightful, but the question is: How do you get better quality? Which municipalities can you collaborate with and look at so that it becomes a feather in the hat to develop this activity as well and so that you feel that those lists should we top?
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-85	Mr President, I would like to David Josefsson has asked me whether I share the view that the legislation should be reviewed on the basis of the conditions of microbreweries and folk beer shops. The Government is actively working to implement the food strategy's goal of promoting and increasing Swedish food production, including the production of beverages. I am convinced that the positive development of food business can go hand in hand with a public health alcohol policy. As regards the rules for tasting alcoholic beverages, it is the municipality that decides to authorise manufacturers to offer tastings. Those who already have a license to serve have the right to taste after notification to the municipality. The work of the Alcohol Act shows that tasting should involve small quantities of different products in order to get an idea of quality and taste. The legislation sets out the purpose of tasting, and in regulations the Public Health Authority sets out the conditions to be fulfilled in order to carry out such activities. Interpretation of the law can be done on the basis of the work of the law. However, legal interpretation is a task for municipalities, authorities and courts, not for the government. I believe that the Alcohol Act and its regulations set out what should be achieved with regard to tasting without specifying in detail how it should be done. In this way, there is room in the law for the authorities who are close to the activity in question and who have good knowledge of both the Alcohol Act and the local conditions for assessing how tasting at breweries should be best designed. It is not the government's task to regulate the authority of individual municipalities in detail. I therefore do not believe that legislation should be reviewed at present in the light of the conditions of microbreweries and folk beer shops.
i-Lv8hj6F4pXZEp41YsqtaYq	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer! In the past there were local beer breweries in almost every place with self-respect in Sweden. But in the latter half of the 20th century, a few big players started buying up and then laying ne d smaller breweries and centralizing production in order to achieve economies of scale. This trend has now reversed in the last decade, and instead new breweries have begun to open. According to SCB, there were 42 breweries in 2010, and the number then increased to a total of 392 breweries in 2017. The increase consists mainly of breweries with production in smaller volumes, characterized by good raw materials and high sustainability thinking and with a local touch. In parallel with the microbreweries, there has also been an increased interest in alcoholic beverages with lower alcohol content – folk beer, light beer and non-alcoholic beer. Swedish drinking habits have started to shift from drinking large amounts of industrial beer to more and more people seeing beer as a high quality drink that is consumed rather for the taste experience than for the rush. I believe that most people see this as a positive development, Mr President. But many breweries do not really feel that this is the attitude of society. Rather, we are witnessing unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles when we believe that the current legislation on alcohol is not written on the basis of the situation of microbrewerie rs or folk beer shops. Different municipalities provide different information and apply different practices. As microbreweries by definition brew small volumes, many breweries are also dependent on other sources of revenue. One is to arrange beer tastings, which are an important part of many breweries' activities, both as a source of revenue and as a marketing channel. The issue of hard to understand alcohol legislation has been raised in particular in Gothenburg. There, a folk beer shop was closed last spring because the municipality did not believe that there was room in the law to arrange folk beer tastings, i.e. that similar activities exist in Stockholm and Malmö. And now in November there was a discussion about how the legislation should be interpreted when it comes to beer tastings at breweries. Both local politicians of different political colours as well as brewers and municipal officials spoke in the media and argued that the legislation should be reviewed. Of course, I am not asking the Minister to judge how municipalities should interpret the Alcohol Act. But the question that arises, of course, is the government prepared to review the law? The Minister now answers me, Mr President, that she is not prepared to review the legislation. In fact, it is an answer that surprises me. In an announcement from May 2018, the Riksdag decided to promote legislation that enables farm sales under the current alcohol monopoly. It is also treated as paragraph 23 of the JÖK, and an investigation will be set up next year. Chapter 8 of the Alcohol Act. Section 1 stipulates that Systembolaget as a retail company may organise beverage tastings. I believe that farm sales will inevitably lead to an examination of the rules on how this affects retail companies and microbreweries. So should I interpret the Government as not being prepared to review the legislation even in the context of the investigation into farm sales?
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-100	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish brewery industry is growing. The number of breweries in Sweden has grown from about 20 in the 90s to around 380 today. The industry currently employs around 4 000 people and creates around 60 000 jobs in total, according to figures from Sweden's Breweries. Today there are several small breweries around the country. In many small towns in Sweden these small breweries benefit local tourism, create jobs and contribute to economic growth. Especially in Västra Götaland and Bohuslän there is a thriving beer culture with many small breweries. The Swedish small breweries today produce high-quality and crafty beer in different varieties. It is possible to find everything from Swedish-produced ports to Swedish-produced IPA beer. Swedish beer is today an export product that competes on the world market. But in recent years we have been able to read about the issue of alcohol permits for tastings at breweries in Västra Götaland and that they are treated very rigidly. As has been said before, municipalities have the authority over how many centiliters should be allowed to be served at tastings. Some municipalities have set the limit to 15 centiliters, and then you can taste it, but some municipalities have gone as low as 1.5 centiliters. It almost goes without saying that there will be no tasting then. Today, the breweries have different permits, as I have said. The amount of beer allowed for tasting can differ both within and between municipalities. The issue of permits lies with the municipalities, and the county administrative board acts as an advisory body. The County Administrative Board, which is the extended power of the government, has also pointed out that the legislation is unclear and that recommendations can only affect new permits. It is very worrying that the legislation is so unclear when it comes to tasting. Being able to offer only a tablespoon of beer at a tasting seems both realistic and unserious. The quantity is extremely small, and it seems immediately impossible with this small amount to have a serious tasting of a beverage. The legislation needs to be clarified so that the rules for tasting at breweries are clear. There is a need for rules that are clear and equal for everyone and that enable and facilitate the continued development of a Swedish beer culture. This is also not a question of people's soberness. Often this type of beer costs both two and three times more is the cheap beer that can be bought elsewhere. So this is not a question of sobriety. Otherwise you could have looked at it differently. That is why I finally ask: how does the Government view this unclear legislation? As I understand and interpret it, the Government does not intend to change the law.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-107	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank David Josefsson, who has made an important interpellation about microbreweries and folk beer shops. When you hear the answer from the Government, you will first be pleased that the Government says that she is convinced that a positive development in food business can go hand in hand with a public health-based alcohol policy, and that the Government wants to promote the production of Swedish food and beverages. That's a good thing. A government must have a comprehensive policy, Mr President. One must have a policy that is not only expressed in words but also in action. That is precisely why David Josefsson has highlighted the problem of having legislation that is interpreted differently. When the government receives those signals – I suspect that it has not gone by – it is also the government's duty to clarify the legislation in accordance with the intentions that the Government is saying here that it has. We have a food strategy that the government is working on, and we want to promote beverage sales. I am also thinking of farm sales, Mr President. There is always a dual message coming from the Government. I read an interview with the government where she condemned the farm sale before the investigation is even complete. I don't even know if it's filled. We heard the answer here, where the Government said that she wants to develop Swedish food production including the production of beverages, but in an interview in the media, the Government says, "Neither I nor the Social Democrats have changed their minds on the matter, but with the January agreement we have promised to investigate whether we can find a way to reconcile farm sales with the monopoly." ..................................................... On the one hand, they say that they want to develop Swedish production of food and beverages. On the other hand, you distance yourself from the same investigation. I think it's troubling. In my constituency Gävleborg, a large number of microbreweries have been popular. It is no wonder that they want to test the products, as Lars ‐ Arne Staxäng and David Josefsson said. It's part of running microbrewery. Farm sales would, of course, solve the problem. That would be very good. A clarification of the legislation would also be very good. Even a tax review would be very good. Last week, a well-visited seminar was held in Parliament on the conditions for microbreweries and the possibilities of differentiating legislation for beer and cider; the seminar was about beer. It would cost Sweden around 55 million to have legislation that is considered normal in most other EU countries. Do the Government and the Government want to introduce a farm sale of alcohol? Do you want to make things easier for the microbreweries? Do you want to develop sales of alcoholic beverages in Sweden? My simple question is: Is that the will of the government?
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-117	Mr President, I would like to I have, of course, a few different concerns to which I think the interpeller and the other participants in the debate could devote the next speech. It's about how much it takes for it to be tasting. We are not happy to have that discussion in this House. Should it be 1.2 deciliters or 1.5 deciliters? Is that between the borders? And how many bottles of beer are you supposed to drink? Should you drink five bottles of 1 1⁄2 deciliter? Is it called tasting? Where's the line? As I said in my interpellation response, it is not the government that interprets the law. If you feel that you are not satisfied with the decision that the municipality has taken, you can appeal the decision in order to get a clearer answer. I cannot answer if it has been done in Gothenburg. I'm sure the interpellant himself knows that. But that is how the law is interpreted. We don't change the law as soon as someone thinks it's unclear. Farm sales are not really the issue for the day, but since all the speakers in the speaker's chair opposite me have raised it, I will say a few things that I think I have been clear with many times before. I can repeat them. There have been two previous investigations by a previous government that has tried to get legislation that enables farm sales but at the same time does not challenge the Swedish monopoly that Systembolaget has. In any case, all parties other than the Moderates think that we should keep Systembolaget as the only one to sell alcohol to private individuals. It has not been possible to produce such legislation. I have great respect for trying. I don't want to make it sound like it's going to be easy in any way. I do not believe that farm sales in themselves will threaten Swedish public health. I never thought you would. But if we were to allow farm sales in such a way that it challenges the monopoly that Systembolaget has, I am convinced that it would threaten Swedish public health. Then, just as I have always done, I choose to defend the Swedish monopoly. In that sense, I have not changed my mind, Lars Beckman. That would be strange; even if parties cooperate and are willing to compromise, they do not abandon their previous positions. To combine farm sales with the Swedish monopoly for Systembolaget I think is good in theory. But I realize it's going to be difficult. It's really a nut to crack. On the other hand, I do not see any obvious thing in investigating farm sales and thus reviewing the legislation on tasting. There is legislation in place. You can draw different conclusions. But I can note that from 2016 to 2018, the number of beers at Systembolaget has increased from 200 to 1,200. The number of wine producers has increased by about 30. It is not in this way that there is no soil for or that it is not possible to farm production of either beer or wine in Sweden. There is an opportunity to appeal against a decision that is not satisfied with. It is really important to do so if you feel that you have been given a wrong decision. In that case, there will be a clearer precedent. In addition, both the Public Health Authority and the County Administrative Board will assist in consulting on the decisions. Despite the line round, I don't have a new answer. I do not intend to change the legislation. However, we intend to look at how we can enable farm sales while maintaining Systembolaget's monopoly.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-126	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister. The first intervention by the Minister of Social Affairs, just as Lars Beckman was aware, gave the impression that the Minister is rather positive about the microbreweries. The Minister describes that the Government is working to implement the goals of the Food Strategy, including beverages. The Minister of Social Affairs also says that she is convinced that positive development of food businesses can go hand in hand with a public health alcohol policy. I am also convinced of this, as are many brewers. If we can change drinking habits to quality rather than quantity, I think we are on the right track. Unfortunately, the Minister's own policy seems to go in the opposite direction. Most recently a few weeks ago we could read that state Systembolaget wants to expand its range of strong beer for 6.90 SEK per jar. It only benefits industrial beer and mass drinking. We can note that there are obvious problems in the city of Gothenburg, among others. There all the players, from politicians on both the bourgeois and the red-green sides to the administrators of alcohol and the brewers themselves, agree that the rules are unclear. Mr President, I would like to Let me give you an example. Just as the Minister is concerned, it is clear from the preliminary work of the law that tasting should be about small quantities. The measure mentioned is a tablespoon. The problem is that it is not stated what a tablespoon really means. Does it mean, for example, a tablespoon of strong spirit or a tablespoon of strong beer? As a result, different municipalities have made different interpretations. Some say that alcohol is equivalent to 100 percent alcohol. Others feel that it represents 40 percent strong spirit. And some say it's about a tablespoon regardless of drink. Another area where legislation is difficult to interpret is folk beer tastings. Since the law only indicates strong beer but not folk beer, some municipalities believe that it is free for folk beer tastings. Others argue that the regulation does not allow such tests because the law does not specifically mention folk beer. Mr President, I would like to Just as the Minister says, law interpretation is a task for municipalities, authorities and courts and not for parliament and government. However, if legislation is perceived as unclear, partly because it is written in a different context than where it is applied, it is justified to ask whether the law is appropriate. If I interpret the minister correctly, she thinks the law is appropriate. I'm inclined to think otherwise. At least it should be reviewed in the investigation that the government itself has announced in relation to farm sales, for example, because both industries and regulators are experiencing a serious problem but also because the Alcohol Act explicitly addresses the retail's ability to organise beverage tastings. That is why I believe that this should also be investigated in connection with farm sales. The Swedish Parliament has commissioned the government to investigate farm sales under the alcohol monopoly. I believe that the rules for beverage testing by the same beverage producers should also be examined.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-135	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has an unusually rigid alcohol legislation. We know that. And there is a purpose to this. That's making sure we don't get an addiction. This has meant, among other things, that we in Sweden drink unusually strong beer from Systembolaget. Many who go to Systembolaget then take the stronger beers. In our neighbouring countries, for example, you can often buy beer in stores, often taking a weaker kind of alcohol. When it comes to tasting, even the County Administrative Board says that clarification would be needed. It is therefore not a question of determining the number of centiliters here in Parliament. I agree that this debate should not be held here. On the other hand, clarification is needed. That is an important issue. As I said before, 60 000 jobs are involved if everyone is to be withdrawn. We could develop this much better, not least from the point of view of tourism. People from other countries who come here would like to see our beer culture. They also want to see our wine culture, if we now have one, but this applies above all to beer culture. Of course, they also want to taste. When they hear of these rigid rules, they wonder if it is true. That is precisely why there should be an opportunity to redo the rules so that they are more similar to international rules on alcohol.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-139	Mr President, I would like to I am proud of the microbreweries in Sweden. I think it is fantastic to look at the developments that have taken place in Gävleborg and in other parts of Sweden. Enthusiasts who want to promote beverage culture are developing new exciting products that have not existed before. For this reason, I am so unhappy that the government does not have a coherent policy. On the one hand, they say they have a food strategy, including drinks, but on the other hand, the responsible minister in interviews says that she is actually against farm sales, but because of the January agreement we need to investigate the issue. On the one hand, written answers say that this is welcome and good, but on the other hand the same answer says that you are not prepared to review legislation that does not work. This shows the government's problems. You push questions that you simply don't believe in. If you really had a food strategy, including drinks, that you believe in, you would gladly address the issue of farm sales. Just as the Government says, it is not appropriate for the Riksdag to legislate exactly how many centiliters to serve at a tasting. It seems ridiculous. But that is precisely why we need to clarify the legislation. This is done by allowing farm sales and making it easy to taste the products on the microbreweries available. If, on the other hand, you are opposed to farm sales but still want to carry out an investigation into it, you have to clarify the legislation that obviously does not work, because the reality always strikes political rhetoric. I would like a clear, simple and straightforward reply. Is the purpose of the survey on farm sales that the government intends to appoint for farm sales and develop the food strategy, including drinks? What does the government want?
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-144	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I am reading a piece out of the interpellation response, so that it becomes quite clear. 中 The work of the Alcohol Act shows that tasting must involve small quantities of different products in order to get an idea of quality and taste. The legislation sets out the purpose of tasting, and in regulations the Public Health Authority sets out the conditions to be fulfilled in order to be able to do so. ..................................................... So it does not say how many centiliters it should be, but it is clear what purpose the tasting should have. Furthermore, it says:中 Interpretation of the law can be done on the basis of the work of the law. However, legal interpretation is a task for municipalities, authorities and courts, not for the government. I still do not think that I have received an answer as to whether the question has been appealed. Otherwise, I think it is very important for the interpeller to pass on this in response to this debate. If you feel that you have not received a decision that is clear or that you yourself feel is not in line with the legislation, you have to appeal it. I find it difficult to change the intention I just read out. I think tasting should be about small amounts of different products to get an idea of quality and taste. Since we do not regulate the number of centiliters, that would be the direction of a change, and I do not intend to do so. I am proud of the microbreweries that I have visited and which are in my vicinity. I know what they mean. But I say this one more time in an attempt to do so that perhaps even Lars Beckman understands. Being in favour of farm sales and at the same time being in favour of the Swedish alcohol monopoly is not simply. The ambition is for us to succeed in that. But if Lars Beckman forces me to choose so that the consequence becomes farm sales where not only Swedish-producing farms can sell what they produce but we also open up to the European market and that Systembolaget no longer has a monopoly on sales, I am not prepared to carry out farm sales. I want us to have both. I am not prepared to allow wine sales at Ica, but I think we should have a Systembolaget monopoly. I also know what it means for not least all microbreweries and local producers to suddenly gain access to the entire Swedish market. It would not be possible if Systembolaget's sales monopoly were to cease. I am not saying that it would end overnight, but I think there is reason to be very careful. We know what the consequences would be if we did not have a Systembolaget monopoly in the long term. It also has a very great deal of support from the Swedish people. I share this support. My answer is once again: anyone who thinks that the law should be changed must become more specific. Today there are no restrictions on centiliters, quantities, number or varieties. In the preliminary work it says that tasting should be about small quantities of different products in order to get an idea of quality and taste. It is my view that we should formulate ourselves exactly that way.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-152	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for a good debate, even if we do not agree! First of all, I would never ask an interpellation about an individual case. As a Member of Parliament, I would certainly not be debating an individual case. Now it was not about one but about a discussion between brewers and social resource management in Gothenburg. It has been agreed that the legislation is unclear and that it must be looked at from that point of view. The problem is that the preparatory work is also unclear. It is there, among other things, that a tablespoon is mentioned. Basically, I am in favour of Swedish microbreweries. With great craftsmanship and high ambitions in both quality and sustainability, one will be able to play an important role not only in food production but also in the tourism industry. It is better from a public health perspective to shift focus, I believe, from mass consumption to high quality and taste experiences. Sweden has a proud brewing tradition. In Gothenburg, from which I come, there are perhaps the very best breweries. That is certainly a very personal opinion and not the party line, Mr President. The example of Gothenburg has also made clear the need to review the legislation. The government to which the Minister of Social Affairs himself belongs has announced that it intends to set up an investigation into farm sales. Taking advantage of the announcement is a good thing. However, it is a pity that we cannot agree that alcohol legislation should also be revised as regards the possibility of organising tests and clarifying the rules for organising public beer tests. I believe that the players deserve a more easily understood and applicable legislation, Mr President.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-158	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, David Josefsson, for the interpellation! All interpellations create a discussion and reflection. I would like to emphasise that it does so in me too. I think the question that is being asked is incredibly relevant. In fact, I do not want to agree that we have different views on the conditions for microbreweries. The issue of legislation and appeal against the legislation that exists when you are not satisfied and to see how far you can go is a way that needs to be examined. We cannot go any other way and say that if you are not satisfied with the decisions you get in your municipality, the law will change. I still believe that tasting should be about small quantities of different products in order to get an idea of quality and taste. It is important to get to the bottom of how far you get in this case. As far as the investigation into farm sales is concerned, I think this is how it is: we will see what the directive as a whole ends up with. It's not finished yet. However, the aim is not to review the entire Swedish alcohol legislation and take the opportunity to add everything possible. What I can say today is that we are about to investigate farm sales and how to handle it in relation to Systembolaget. We need to be able to handle both. Then we will see what else is possible.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-162	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman has asked me how a free year/development period contributes to reaching the government's target of the EU's lowest unemployment rate on 1 January 2020. He has also asked me which professional groups I consider will be taken into account for development time. Furthermore, Lars Beckman has asked me which professional groups I consider will not be able to apply for development time depending on the competence, experience and more of the people who will replace those who are at development time. Lars Beckman has also asked me whether only courses that are eligible for study funding are counted or whether the lack of professional courses procured by Arbetsförmedlingen will also be relevant for participants who are undergoing development time. Finally, Lars Beckman has asked me whether I believe that the target of the EU's lowest unemployment rate is possible for Sweden to reach on 1 January 2020. The unemployment target has been an important steering year for government policy. The measures implemented have produced results and contributed to good labour market development. Jobs and employment are priority areas for the government, and the January agreement contains many important points for more people to get to work. There should be incentives to work and good opportunities to get support for those who find it difficult to enter the labour market but also opportunities for further training and transition for those in the labour market. Unemployment is affected not only by labour market policies but by measures in several policy areas. This is why the government is already implementing a wide range of initiatives in this budget for better integration, a developed labour market policy, an enhanced knowledge boost and an active industrial policy. The Government's proposal in the budget proposal for 2020 to introduce development time for up to one year should be seen in the light of the rapidly increasing demands for transition in the labour market and a lack of skills in several professions. The Government sees a need to contribute to raising the skills and adaptability of the labour force and to increasing labour market mobility. Development time means opportunities for employees to develop their skills or new skills in order to strengthen their continued employability. At the same time, the reform means that employers' labour needs with the right training can be better met. If more people choose to take part in development time, more jobs can be created in the labour market, thus allowing, for example, a replacement who is further away from jobs to get into work. The development period is intended to provide individuals with increased opportunities to develop, after a voluntary agreement with their employer, skills development in their current work or take the step to other employment. An important opportunity arising from this reform is for individuals to be given a chance and incentives to train themselves to professions where there is currently a shortage of labour. Work on the detailed design of the reform is currently under way within the Government Office. A well-designed active labour market policy contributes to more people being able to get to work. Work is the most important prerequisite for self-sufficiency and establishment in society.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-171	Mr President, I would like to Today is 3 December. There is therefore less than a month left until one of the most important election promises of the Social Democrats is implemented. It was that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. If there is not one in the next three weeks, it can well be said that they will fail with that goal. You can look at current statistics. Unfortunately, Sweden is at the bottom of the EU's unemployment statistics. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has many social problems. I think there are more people than those from Norrbotten who are worried about the wave of robberies that is going over Sweden, about the bombings and explosions that are taking place in Sweden, about the burglaries that are never cleared up and about the many foreign born who have come to Sweden and who have to come to work. If we do not manage to get more foreign born in jobs, the municipal welfare system will completely crack. At home in my constituency, Gävleborg, we can now see how hundreds, sometimes thousands, of people go from the chaos that is at Arbetsförmedlingen right into the municipal income support. It is clear that one then becomes concerned when the government deliberately intends to give adult people time off at someone else's expense. So the government intends to spend billions on the free year that in all the evaluations turned out to be a failure. Although it has been renamed into developmental times, it is still an adult who is free at someone else's expense. How it will solve social problems is probably very difficult to understand for a lot of people. How do you expect more police officers to get out of jail? Or can a cop go on a break at all? Who's gonna replace that cop? I have seen in Gävleborg that there are very long queues to Folktandsvården. How are there shorter queues for dental care when the dentist goes on a break? Who's gonna replace the dentist? What about more teachers in the classrooms? We can see at home in Gävle that there are alarmingly many unauthorized teachers in the classrooms. What about more teachers in the classrooms when the government plans to spend billions on letting the teacher go on vacation? This, Mr President, is of course the concern of the government's policy. You don't have a coherent blue thread, where you have an idea where we are and where we're going. A small party of 4% has as a matter of heart that people should be free– I am thinking of the Green Party. It is true that the January Contracting Parties have satisfied a party. It's a party that's supposed to push through development time. It is a billion-dollar investment, which could have gone to get more foreign born in jobs. It is a billion-dollar investment that could have given Sweden more police officers. It's a billion-dollar investment that could have gone to more teachers in school. I also note that one of the questions I have asked is: which professional groups will the Minister consider going to the free year or the period of development? It would be interesting to hear the Government answer that question. Which occupational groups are eligible for this, and what social problems does the Minister for Employment see before him should be solved by giving adult people time off at someone else's expense?
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-179	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that my colleague Lars Beckman raises such an important issue as development time in an interpellation. We've tested this once, 2007. It did not work then, and although it is now referred to otherwise, there is great doubt that it will work today. I look with great concern at the costs that this will entail for employers who are going to train new staff when the regulars are going to go on so-called development time. I look with great concern at the increased mental illness, due to stress and uncertainty, in those who remain in the workplace when the regular employees go to development time. As my colleague, Lars Beckman, pointed out, we are far from having the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. And, unfortunately, the people who are far removed from the labour market today are people who require adaptation. In my opinion, if this cost is to be passed on to the employer, it is completely wrong when it comes to development time. This will increase the costs and stress and burden on the employers who are currently working hard to drive Swedish business forward. I do not believe that we should give competence development in the way that is intended with development time. It can happen in many other ways. The draft law on development time is a proposal that I believe is doomed from the outset.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-183	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by clarifying something that seems to have been misunderstood. Development time is not at all a free year. The free year was a reform that we had in 2002-2005. At the time, there was no requirement for the individual to develop or participate in any type of education, self-employment or so. You could then choose freely what you wanted to do during that time. That is not how we are going to steer this reform. Looking at how the labour market works, we can see that very many people who are not working today are quite far from the labour market. At the same time, many employers have a great need to hire new staff, but they do not always find the right skills. When you ask the questions both to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and to municipalities and regions, they say that it is a lack of the right skills that is the big problem. It is very important that we contribute with a labour market policy that not only equips and matches those furthest from the labour market, but also creates incentives for people to want to develop, develop skills and take new steps into new jobs throughout their working lives. Development time does not solve all these problems, but it may be a way for people who are in work to also go to a new education in order to develop themselves further or perhaps be able to take a job in a new industry – this is about the issue that I got here, Mr President, about which occupational groups it might involve. For example, both the Teachers' Association and the National Association of Teachers say that this investment in development time should also include teachers. What they see is an opportunity to ensure that those who are teachers but who work without teacher qualifications could actually acquire it during the period of development. It can also be about permissions in a new subject. In this way, development time can also contribute to the teaching profession. As I have said in this House before, there are also other professions where there is a great lack. We want to direct development time from the government, so that it will, above all, train itself to those professions where there is a shortage of labour, because it will also create a favourable transition and mobility in the labour market. In order for the labour market to work well, and this is important for me as Minister of Labour, it is both about equipping and matching those who are far from the labour market and creating a high dynamism and mobility in our labour market so that employers who need to employ find the right skills. As I said, this is the biggest problem in the Swedish labour market today, and then development time can be a tool for it. As I said, it doesn't solve all the problems, but it can be a tool to make sure that more people are educated further. This also leaves new job openings for those farthest from the labour market, and so can they benefit from this kind of reform.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-190	Mr President, I would like to Right now it's called development time. Previously, it's been called a free year. Once in the world it was called something else. The TCO president at the time, Eva Nordmark, said very wisely: ..................................................... Nor did the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise or Kommunal believe in the idea. Generally, of course, the social partners rightly condemn the idea of adult people being free at someone else's expense. I can see that the Government did not answer the question of how more police officers will be allowed to go on a free-year basis. What about more doctors if the doctor goes on parole? How will there be more anaesthetic nurses if the anaesthetic nurse goes free? The truth is, of course, that the dentist will not be able to go on vacation, and we must hope that the dentist will not do so either in view of the long dental queues. I am absolutely sure that the former President of the TCO is well aware that the release, or whatever it is called, will not lead to a fall in unemployment in Sweden. In fact, I refuse to believe that one of the social partners has this view of the labour market: that person B can exactly replace person A. I believe that the vast majority of tasks and employees today are unique. It is not that there is a gear somewhere where you can automatically insert someone who from day one can go in and deliver and produce. I hope that the government and the Government do not have that view of employees and people. Of course, every employee in the labour market today is unique. There are few jobs where you can go in day one or day five and all of a sudden deliver as it may have gone on a free year. At least I have that human vision. Humans are not interchangeable in a gear wheel. Humans are not a factory, but every human being is unique. That is why, among other things, this idea of freedom is so stupid, because it is based on some kind of idea that anyone can replace anyone. When you visit Arbetsförmedlingen or meet representatives of the unions, as I did in Gävleborg recently, you can see which groups are enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen. It is clear that a 52-year-old illiterate from Somalia cannot go in and replace particularly many of those who could go on development or free years. This is not how the target group at Arbetsförmedlingen looks, and I am absolutely sure that the Minister for Labour has also made his visits clear. That is why I do not really believe that the Social Democrats believe in this idea. I believe that you have placed your weight on the other government party, which does not believe in economic growth, more jobs or a functioning labour market. But then you can be open and honest and say it. Do not try to construct arguments as if you believe that free or development time would work! I am also sure that we fully agree that this project will not lead to Sweden's having the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union in any respect. In fact, the billions you spend on this would have been needed to equip those who are very far removed from the labour market for a chance to enter the labour market at all.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-198	Mr President, I would like to My colleague, Lars Beckman, has said very wisely from this speaker's seat, and I can only agree with him. I think, of course, that we should develop our labour market policy. It is a must, because we need to strengthen our business community in order to be competitive. But doing so through this so-called year of education, the year of free leave or whatever we should call it is not the way to go. If we send qualified teachers to further develop themselves, they will be replaced by unauthorized teachers. In my world, this means that our young people do not have access to the best education we want them to have in order to be equipped to become good employees in our labour market. Just as Lars Beckman said: The people who are registered at Arbetsförmedlingen today are the ones who are the furthest away from the labour market, and they are the ones who require the most and the greatest adaptation in order to be able to enter a workplace. In the end, Mr President, this means that employers have to take an incredibly large responsibility at a great cost in order to be able to replace the person who goes on leave. I am not prepared to stand up for a policy where it is the employers who should take this cost. We need the money to develop our industrial policy in a completely different way from being free at someone else's expense.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-202	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by again informing the House that the reform we are planning is called development time and nothing else. I can understand that there will be some confusion with other reforms, and if you are going to make such comparisons, development time is not primarily to compare with the free year that we had in the mid-00s, but precisely with the educationalvikariats that Lars Beckman also mentioned. I would also like to emphasise that development time is intended to give individuals increased opportunities following a voluntary agreement with their employer on skills development, in order to develop further in their profession or in another profession. I can reassure the House that there will not be a reform spilling over on the employer, but every employer enters into an agreement with the individual. I also want to make it clear that when it comes to teacher education, with my previous experience as chairman of Luleå University of Technology, I know very well how the educational offering has been adapted, renewed and modernised over the years. This means that a person who works as a teacher but who does not yet have a licence but may have some courses that need to be supplemented can do so in a slightly different way, via distance education or under more flexible forms. It is important that we see the development of the labour market and the provision of education, so that we do not live with a false picture. It can be valuable for many different types of activities that people get a chance to replenish with new knowledge and can step into a new job. Speaking of the issue that has been raised about the different views of the parties on the reform, we obviously listen carefully to those views in the work that we are doing at the moment in the preparation of the reform. Here in this House there are a number of relevant questions which, of course, we need to review so that there will be as good a reform as possible. It is important, Mr President, that we do not enlarge the period of development as the only reform to solve our labour market problems. This is one of many important contributions to increasing labour market flexibility. Another such issue is the need for training provision to be adapted to the needs of employees and the labour market.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-208	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, important that the government has a coherent policy. We can see that Arbetsförmedlingen returns almost 1 billion that has not been used for 2019, despite high unemployment and despite the fact that more or less it has created chaos. As the Director General of Arbetsförmedlingen has said, this depends on the January agreement. I am concerned that the government intends to spend billions on what is called development time. As I said in my introductory speech, Sweden has many social problems. So there will be no more police officers because the police are going through developmental times. There will be no more teachers in the classroom as the teacher undergoes developmental time. There will be no more surgery performed in hospitals because the doctor undergoes developmental time. It is paid leave at someone else's expense, if development time at all may be relevant. It is just as the Minister for Labour says, namely that there must be someone who can replace, for example, the police. I would have liked the government to have put the money and the time that this work takes in the Government Office and at the Ministry to produce reforms that really make more people come to work. Sweden will not be recognized if we do not get all foreign born in jobs. Sweden will have social problems that we have never seen before if we do not get third generation immigrants in jobs. I myself had a seminar with Jan Edling here in the house, where he said that those who have arrived now we are sure to fix but that he was very concerned about those who live in our suburbs, third generation children, who have not learned Swedish properly yet. That's where the government should put the power, not to give adults time off with different names at someone else's expense. This solves none of the social problems that Sweden has right now.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-211	Mr President, I would like to I choose not to comment on the situation at Arbetsförmedlingen. It is much more complex than what Lars Beckman suggests in the debate. We'll do that another time. What is the very basis for us to hire more policemen, teachers or doctors is that people should work. For this, we need a labour market policy aimed at, among other things, those who are far removed from the labour market by training, equipping and matching them to work. It is also a question of ensuring that employers can employ the skills they need. It is crucial for us to be able to increase economic growth, to be competitive and to finance police officers, teachers and doctors. That's how it's connected. There must be a labour market policy for those who are far removed from the labour market, and there must be a policy that meets employers' needs. For that, we must also have a high degree of transition and dynamism in the labour market. There we can make several different types of efforts. One of them is development time.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-214	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me if I see the challenges we have today with the increasing mental illness within our work environment and what measures I have to take. No one should be harmed or ill by their work. Working life should not lead to premature exclusion due to physical, social or organisational health and safety factors. The employer has ultimate responsibility for the working environment. Improvements in the working environment are also a matter for the state and the social partners. Since the government took office last term of office, raising the level of ambition for health and safety at work policy has been an important priority. The resources have been increased by more than SEK 100 million annually. The Government's strategy for 2016 – 2020 focuses on three priority areas where psychosocial work environment, now known as organisational and social work environment, and sustainable working life are two of them. The Government has recently appointed a national coordinator to support and initiate change work in municipally funded health care and care activities for the elderly. The aim is to promote a good working environment and sustainable skills provision. The Government has also invested approximately SEK 3 billion for 2019 to create good conditions for healthcare employees. Within the framework of the Government's strategy for health and safety at work, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has developed a guide on occupational health and safety challenges in a borderless working life. The Swedish Work Environment Authority was also given the task of carrying out a special effort on the supervision of the working environment within elderly care, with a special focus on organisational and social work environment and employees' ability to influence and participate and to pay particular attention to a gender perspective. The final report proposes a number of development areas for improved work environment management. Tllsyn continues with inspections at both municipal and private providers of care for the elderly. Working hours and workload are two of the areas that are in focus in the Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations on organizational and social work environment from 2016. The regulations clarify, among other things, the employer's responsibility to ensure that resources are adapted to the requirements of the work and take action. The Swedish Work Environment Authority conducts a national inspection effort between 2017 and 2020, which is expected to lead to a higher proportion of the country's employers working more aggressively on organisational and social work environment issues. The Agency carries out nearly 2,000 inspections in 2019 to ensure that employers prevent work-related mental illness. Activities that are inspected are, among other things, homes for care or accommodation. During 2018, a mid-term review of the OSH strategy was carried out. The Agency for Safety and Health at Work, Mynak, was then commissioned to compile knowledge about factors that create healthy and healthy workplaces. The assignment shall be finalized in connection with the annual report for 2019. In addition, an assignment was given to the Swedish Work Environment Authority and Mynak to compile and report health factors at organizational level that can be measured and monitored over time. The assignment shall be sub-reported in connection with the annual report for 2019 and shall be reported in connection with the annual report for 2020. The Government has decided to commission Statskontoret to evaluate the work environment strategy. The results, which will be presented by 14 February 2020 at the latest, will form a basis for the Government's development of a new strategy on health and safety at work. The assignments so far have contributed to important knowledge in this area, and I look forward to receiving future reports. The number of occupational diseases caused by organisational and social factors is a challenge, and I do not rule out the need for further action.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-219	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answer to a complex and for me and many with me important question! I've just been reprimanded by an initiated source: You can't say This is because it involves so much more. It is about mental well-being, mental diagnoses and mental disabilities. So this is an incredibly complex issue. It is also complicated by the fact that we are different as people and handle mental diagnoses, mental illness and psychological complications very different. We know what it looks like when you've broken a foot. You can predict how long the healing process will be and what the consequences of a broken foot will be. But if you get sick leave because of mental illness, you have no idea because we are so different. Today, more than 600 000 people are on sick leave, according to Försäkringskassan's statistics. Of them, just over 40 per cent have some form of psychiatric diagnosis, of which 70 per cent are women. Now there will be a lot of numbers; I apologise. But where I want to go is to point out that this is a major issue, especially for women and for women working in so-called contact professions. Then we'll talk school, health care and care. In one of the three most important areas of the labour market, we see the highest rates of mental illness and psychiatric diagnosis. As the Government has pointed out, there is a broad consensus among a number of expert authorities that, for example, the employer has a key role in reducing sick leave. But I see a clear need to create a better incentive structure for employers in terms of preventive work on psychosocial work environments, past interventions and past rehabilitation. The answer given to me by the Government reveals that there are a number of different authorities and works that have been tasked with looking at this issue in various aspects. What I'm a little worried about is that Mynak has been given a rather large and extensive task to look at mental illness. Since we already know that the authority itself has major problems with mental illness within its own operations, it is a little worrying that it will come up with an investigation that will answer how we should deal with mental illness in the rest of the labour market.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-226	Mr President, I would like to I very much welcome this important debate. As the interpellier points out, this is also an important issue for gender equality. I myself have been involved in my previous role for many years in the issues of mental illness, but also in women's opportunities to do their work professionally and avoid getting sick. We know today that work-related stress is a huge problem for many different professions. Often it is about well-educated, women-dominated professions in welfare services, where you take a very large responsibility and at the same time experience a low degree of control over your work. This is the scientific basis for measuring requirements versus control in working life. These are important occupational groups such as nurses, teachers and managers in the care of the elderly and disabled, to name a few. It is crucial that we ensure that we have a working life where you can feel good and where you can feel pride and joy even when you come home after the end of the day or the end of your shift. That is why it is important to have all the measures that we have taken, but also the conclusions that may be drawn from a great many missions that are on the table. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight something that I think is central. This is about the important work that trade unions and employers do together. I believe that the Swedish model of strong partners and responsible employers and trade unions has a key role to play in this. It is they who know the world of work best, and it is they who know the workplace and the working conditions. Of course a lot can be done there. One example of this is that SKR, as it is now called, together with the unions within municipalities and regions three years ago signed an agreement or a letter of intent for healthier workplaces. Based on this, a number of local agreements have been signed. Kalmar is an example. There, the parties have jointly developed an action plan aimed at improving the working environment, and specifically what we are talking about here, namely the mental and social working environment. Among other things, it has been about how to ensure scheduling. A higher health care allowance has been introduced. It has been about spreading good examples and training both managers and safety representatives in these activities. Kalmar is one of several regions and municipalities that through these long-term efforts with collaboration between employers and trade unions have actually managed to reduce sickness rates, so that's the way to go – that we take a large joint responsibility. The employer always has ultimate responsibility for the work environment, but also safety representatives, trade unions and we in politics can help to ensure that everyone is well at work.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-234	Mr President, I would like to Congratulations to Kalmar, who has succeeded. There are 289 other municipalities that might look more at Kalmar and do just as Kalmar does, absolutely. But it doesn't help that we just have a lot of deals on the table. It is important that we also make a workshop out of all agreements. It's here somewhere we have a glitch in the system. In the public sector in particular, we place high demands on managers, and managers have many employees to take responsibility for. We know that a manager is present since before that we are very positive for the employees. To be confirmed and seen increases mental health based on having a boss that you can go to and who cares. But that is not the case today. In the public sector in particular, managers have a great many employees, and that is not the way to go. The Social Security Inspection has concluded that early rehabilitation interventions are of great importance. I attended a seminar in North Latin a couple of weeks ago, where the request was made to act 90 days before sick leave. In the best of worlds one would have the opportunity to be a present manager and so far in advance pay attention to the problems and challenges that exist in the work environment so that sick leave can be avoided. If it has gone so far as to end with a sick leave, it feels like a failure – for me, for the Government, for the whole of society and not least for the individual. We know that the consequences are usually not good. I would like – and we have moderated this about – that we could have a special rehabilitation chain for psychiatric diagnoses. As I said in my previous post, it is not possible to compare a broken foot with a psychiatric diagnosis. You need a completely different rehabilitation chain to land right in terms of treatment and assistance to the person who may be on sick leave, or even to prevent a sick leave with the right early intervention. I don't think a lot of deals are the way to success. We will look at good examples and perhaps highlight Kalmar even more – that would be positive. Early interventions and early rehabilitation efforts are A and O in order for us to address some of the mental ill health we see out at our workplaces today.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-239	Mr President, I would like to I and the interpellant fully agree on the importance of early intervention. There must also be resources, including so that public sector managers can have a reasonable number of subordinates. If the regulations on organizational and social work environment that came a few years ago and are to ensure that we have a good health and work environment in all our workplaces were used, no one would have to get sick from their work or feel the dangerous stress. I am proud that during 2019 the Swedish Work Environment Authority has chosen to focus on these regulations and look at how they are used. Almost 2 000 inspections have taken place in the area of health and social care with the aim of monitoring the OSA regulations and checking how employers carry out the preventive work we are talking about, with preventive and early interventions. Based on the inspections, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has stated that health and care problems need to be made more visible in the organisations. Ultimately, politicians are responsible for the burden. Politicians in the Councils, Boards and Boards are the ultimate employers' representatives and must make sure that workers are not exposed to risks or suffer from ill health and accidents at work. During 2019, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has met all municipalities and regions at political level to inform about their responsibilities as an employer and how the work environment legislation works. Then the idea is that this should be followed up in 2020 with random inspections to find out how systematic work environment management is done. I also think that this is an important measure. As I was in the past, it is the employers who are responsible for the working environment in the workplace. Of course, safety representatives and trade unions are also very important. What we can do on the political and state side, as I have mentioned, is to contribute important knowledge but also to check that the regulations that exist in this area are actually being complied with. This is an important responsibility for us politicians.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-244	Mr President, I would like to The Government really does point out the sore point: it is we politicians who have the ultimate responsibility. This is one of the reasons why I am raising this issue in my interpellation. I do not feel that we take full responsibility when I see today's figures, which show that just over 40% of those on sick leave are for psychiatric diagnoses. Of these, 70% are women. Then as a politician, I cannot feel that I have taken full responsibility. In a dialogue that I have had with Försäkringskassan, they highlight another important part that they work with but which is used very little, namely preventive sick leave. I see it as an important incentive for employers to, when you see that an employee may not be feeling really well, be able to suggest that efforts are put in place and that you work with preventive sick leave to prevent a real sick leave. Stress isn't really bad. On the other hand, it is important to have the possibility of recovery after a stressful period or task. I don't think we should be afraid of stress, but we should work with recovery and to get a good work environment.
i-de5e5c080d3ae6d8-247	Mr President, I would like to Stress can be very dangerous. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's assessment is that over 700 people die each year due to work-related stress and ill health. It can therefore be very dangerous, and it is important that we have a strategy and that we act so that people can feel good at their jobs. Today we have a strategy on health and safety at work where we have given priority to the issue of mental illness. I would like to say right now, in view of the new strategy, that these issues must be high on the political agenda and in that strategy. I understand that I and Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm agree on the importance of this issue. As I said, I am pleased that the issue is coming up in this House. I hope that we can hook arms on these important issues when we then take a decision on the forthcoming work environment strategy, because these are areas that really need priority.
