i-3836c029cf7ba80d-1	Madam President, I would like Mrs Quicklund has asked me what measures I intend to initiate to improve the unacceptably poor working environment for the employees of the Agency for Safety and Health at Work. The Director-General is fully responsible for employer policy and has full responsibility for the Agency's health and safety at work. I have just had a meeting with the Director-General in which I made it clear to him that I take the data on health and safety deficiencies in the Agency very seriously. I expect the Director-General to take full responsibility for the work environment at the Agency. At the meeting, the Director-General outlined the measures he has taken and intends to take. I will continue to follow the matter closely.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-4	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. My question was what concrete measures the Minister intends to initiate to improve the unacceptably poor working environment for the employees of the Agency for Safety and Health at Work, Mynak. The Minister answers: a Director General is fully responsible for employers' policy and has full responsibility for the Agency's work environment. That's absolutely right. But if this does not work, the Minister will have overall responsibility for the authority. I have debated this issue quite a long time ago with the Minister's representative, Ylva Johansson, who answered in the same way. I wonder: where is the pain limit for the poor health and safety situation of the staff at the agency? I'd like to give you a brief background. In June, Dagens Nyheter was able to reveal that several employees had resigned and alerted about a poor working environment at the newly established Agency for Safety and Health at Work in Gävle. The Director General was accused of harsh hierarchical management and harassment of personnel. The Finnish Trade Union Saco's local safety and health representative issued a report on health and safety at work requiring immediate action. In parallel, a letter was sent to the Ministry of Labour. The majority of employees are considered to be behind the letter. Statements were made that made the staff feel bad. Comments were made about weight. There were calls for women to wear short skirts and heels. In August, additional employees of the Agency ended. The trade organisation Sveriges Företagshälser informed the Minister for Labour that they no longer had confidence in the agency's ability to carry out its mission. This is extremely serious. Part of the agency's mission is to spread knowledge about how occupational health should work in the best way. Therefore, the occupational health company Previa was also hired as early as June. All employees would be interviewed about their experiences and a report with proposals for changes would be submitted in October. Of course, Previa's Communications Manager Peter Skald expressed a positive view of the fact that they took hold of this and that they took help. Since then, however, Previa has resigned. This is remarkable. At the beginning of September, the Previa authority announced that the company dropped out, since according to official notes it would not have a common understanding of the assignment and would have difficulty cooperating on the result. The Agency's trade union representative from Saco, Annika Hed Ekman, has been a safety representative at the workplace. In June, Annika Hed Ekman presented a request to the Director-General for urgent action on health and safety at work. A wide range of problems were identified that were considered to endanger employee health: high workload, fast delivery requirements, availability of evenings and weekends, lack of systematic work environment management, as required by law, and a strong straining situation. The Minister has stated in Dagens Nyheter that you take the situation seriously and that you follow this. These are the same statements that the former minister has made. My question is: what does the Minister mean by taking this very seriously? The problem has been known for a long time but continues. I'd like some answers on this.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-12	Madam President, I would like I thank Saila Quicklund for a very good and important interpellation. Obviously, the government has major problems in the field of health and safety at work. They have created an authority that will work precisely with health and safety issues but where there seems to be chaos and the whole sea storms. Just as Saila Quicklund explained, the occupational health company Previa has had an assignment. Previa dropped out of the mission because you were not allowed to do the work as you planned, that is, interview the people who quit. It was also the case that the academic union's local safety representative sounded the alarm. It cannot be said directly that the Government's interpellation response is exhaustive. It raises a wide range of questions, just as Saila Quicklund describes. It would be interesting to know what the government is most satisfied with regarding the heavily criticised authority. Is there a goal that has been achieved with Mynak? What gives the Government confidence in the authority and the leadership? The voters and the people of Gävle deserve answers. What makes the Government think that the Authority is working at all? There are also other areas where the government seems to have problems in matters relating to health and safety at work. This week, a publication has revealed that the Swedish Work Environment Authority is suspected of its own poor working environment. Important writings to the Swedish Work Environment Authority have not been registered. I would like the short, simple and straightforward answer to the following questions: What is the Government's most satisfied with regarding this authority, which is to work with occupational safety and health, and what is it that makes the Government have confidence in the authority's management?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-16	Madam President, I would like As I told you in my interpellation response, I met with the Director-General of the Authority last week. I have been very clear that I take the data on the situation at the authority very seriously. The Director-General has presented to me the measures planned and taken. Of course, it's very important. The Agency, in collaboration with safety representatives and employee organisations, has identified a number of measures. These have been put together in an action plan for work environment management. I have also made it clear to the Head of Administration that I expect to see the results of the measures taken and planned by the Head of Authority in the near future. That is why I continue to follow this issue closely. I will also follow up the results of the measures taken and planned in an appropriate way.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-18	Madam President, I would like There are clear expectations of a Head of Government stipulated in the Authority Regulation 2007:515 and then developed in the Government's Chief Executive Policy for Head of Authorities. There are also other laws and regulations that you have to relate to as an employer and manager. It is interesting to know how the Government sees that the Head of Government meets the requirements of the Authority Regulation. Does the minister feel that the head of government does? Section 4 states that the authority's management must ensure that there is internal control and control at the authority that works in a safe manner. It is also stated in the regulation that the authority must ensure that employees are well acquainted with the objectives of the operation and create good working conditions and take advantage of and develop the skills and experience of the employees. In addition, it would be interesting to hear how the Government sees that the Head of Government meets the requirements of the executive policy. It states the following about qualified government leadership: The Head of Government will inspire and motivate his employees, be initiative-rich and analytical, and have a good cooperation capacity. The Head of Administration does not necessarily have to be the principal expert in his field of activity himself, but must have the ability to gather the staff necessary for the efficient and safe operation of the business. The Head of Government also needs to have an ability and an interest to cooperate and work strategically on skills supply issues. Several members of the existing Transparency Council have expressed their views on a lack of confidence in the Authority's ability to deliver its mission, which is a serious matter. My questions are: Has the Government or the Ministry investigated how the most important stakeholders view the Authority's ability to carry out its mission? What efforts does the Government consider necessary to establish confidence in the Authority? What advice or instructions has the Head of Government received from the Government? Any human can make mistakes. The basis of the legislation and practice we have in the labour market is that everyone should have the chance to correct what is not working. The employer, i.e. the government, also has an extensive responsibility to support the employee so that it can change the behaviour that the employer considers not to be in line with the requirements of the labour market. Here it would be very interesting to find out if the Government considers that the serious behaviours reported are in accordance with the requirements imposed by the Government on the heads of authorities.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-24	Madam President, I would like It is thus this government that has created the Agency for Safety and Health at Work, which is located in Gävle. It is this government that has appointed the head of that authority. It is this government that is responsible for the working environment of all its authorities. It is more than lawful embarrassing, given that it is the government's prestige authority to work with work environment knowledge, that it has obvious major internal problems. I thought I asked two straight and simple questions. But I was obviously unclear because the Government did not answer the questions. I'd be happy to change the m again. What is the government's view that has been most successful with the new authority? Of course, I am not thinking of all consultants who are allowed to work with health and safety at the Agency. That was one question. The second question is: What does the Government think about Previa giving up the task because it cannot carry out the task it wants to do in order to be able to sort out the work environment at the agency? There seems to be a red thread through the questions. Labour market news reveals that there is also a poor working environment at the Swedish Work Environment Authority, Madam President. You don't register documents because you're afraid that the media image will be damaged. It seems to be a common theme for the government. Media images are more important than a good working environment for employees. I would like answers to the two simple questions I put to the Government.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-28	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that, for the government, labour market issues are of the utmost importance. We prioritise them in many different authorities. It is very important to be clear in this House as well. Offensive and discriminatory behaviour is, of course, never acceptable. It has been clarified to the Head of Authority that the Government expects the Head of Authority to represent the Authority in a professional and trustful manner and has a respectful and dignified approach. As I mentioned earlier, Madam President, the Head of State has explained to me the measures taken and planned. Just as it should be done on the Swedish labour market, it has, in collaboration with safety representatives and employee organisations, identified measures and compiled them in an action plan for work environment management. One of the measures in the action plan is to carry out a survey of the Agency's organisational and psychosocial work environment and, based on the survey, formulate recommendations on measures for the Agency's systematic work environment management. In particular, issues of workload, response and participation should be addressed. In this context, the Agency has linked in occupational health care to carry out the task. The head of government has informed me that a company other than the intended company has been assigned the task of carrying out the mapping mission. I would also like to make it clear that the Swedish management model includes a delegation of the employer policy issues to the authority. Employers' policy delegation means that the Head of Administration is fully responsible for employer policy at the Authority. The Head of Government is responsible to the Government for its operations and must ensure that it is carried out effectively and in accordance with applicable law. The government has to assess that the operations of the agency are functioning in a safe manner. This is done, among other things, through the annual government dialogues. We also have an ongoing and very close dialogue between the Ministry of Labour and the Agency. As I said earlier, I will continue to follow this issue closely, and I will also follow up on the outcome.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-33	Madam President, I would like Sweden's occupational health services represent 130 companies and work precisely with occupational health care around the country. In June, CEO Peter Munck af Rosenschöld Rosenschöld an email to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson expressing his great concern about the situation at Mynak. He says to DN:中 The agency will play a vital role in the work environment in Sweden, but given the current situation where you hardly have any staff left, they are unable to fulfil their mission. In addition, we are concerned about the work environment as such, when an authority that should keep an eye on such issues has such serious health and safety problems. ..................................................... He's also critical of the government. He says that the government has not dealt with the problem with sufficient force. We have not acted fast enough, and we have not done enough. If it had been done already at the first warning, not many people would have had to stop at the authority. The situation would have been much better. He also expresses the need for the government to think seriously about how to build trust in the agency and how to ensure that it becomes an attractive workplace. Madam President, I would like We are talking about an authority that will supervise others in this area, which is remarkable. In other words, Previa, Sweden's occupational health services and staff at Mynak no longer have confidence in the agency and its leaders. Of course it's serious. My question to the Minister, to whom I have still not been given an answer, is: how long will the government wait to follow up an authority where the staff are so ill and where the staff stop? This is an organization that many lack confidence in.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-38	Madam President, I would like Work environment issues are very important to the government. Therefore, the Authority and its activities are also important. The government has high expectations that the agency can fulfil its mission and perform a good business. Since the area of health and safety at work also affects many different actors, as well as policies and different subject areas, it is of course necessary for the Agency to have good relations with other authorities, with the social partners and with research. I have made it clear to the Head of Authority that I expect to see in the near future the results of the actions that the Head of Authority has planned and intends to take. I am following the matter closely and will follow up on the outcome.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-41	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take to reverse the trend of rising unemployment in general, what measures I and the government intend to take to reduce the gap between the unemployment rate of foreign born and natives, and what measures I and the government intend to take to get more foreign born to start a business and that way to arrange for their own livelihood. A well-designed labour market policy helps more people to get into work. Work is the most important prerequisite for self-sufficiency and establishment in society. An active labour market policy is also important to sustain employment in the context of an economic slowdown. Resources should continue to be given priority to those who are far from the labour market, such as the long-term unemployed and newcomers. It is important that the start-up of the labour market is speeded up for newcomers, and especially for newly arrived women. It is also important that efforts are allocated from a gender perspective. In the budget proposal for 2020, the Government proposes a total of SEK 1.3 billion to equip more people for work, for better integration, for the continuation of the expansion of the Knowledgelift and for an active business policy. In addition, the Government proposes an initial deduction, which aims to make it more attractive to employ people who have not yet established themselves in the labour market and people who have long been excluded from the labour market. The Government proposes resources to increase the number of participants in procured matching services corresponding to the focus on the reform of the Employment Service. More long-term unemployed and newcomers who are far from the labour market should be able to get an extra job or an introductory job. The Government proposes that resources be added to mitigate the reduction of extra services and introductory jobs. Resources are also being provided to enable more unemployed people to receive labour market training, thus meeting the skills needed and countering labour shortages. The Government proposes that funds be provided for start-up jobs in accordance with the proposals of the parties. Through the start-up jobs, the state will stimulate the creation of jobs for newcomers and long-term unemployed so that more people will have the chance of a job. In addition, an intensive year will be introduced within the framework of the establishment programme. The Intensification Year should consist of a chain of language-intensive and professional actions that are given in parallel or successively over a relatively short continuous period. The aim is for participants to be matching with the labour market after the year in question and to get to work within one year of the beginning of the intensive year. A gender perspective should not permeate the year. Creating the conditions for foreign born to start a business is an important issue for the government. Almi has a special mission to reach women and people with foreign background. During 2018, Almi managed to reach its target for entrepreneurs with a foreign background. The Swedish Agency for Growth works in several ways to ensure a business promotion on equal terms. Since 2016, the Swedish Agency for Growth has been tasked by the Government to promote entrepreneurship among newly arrived and foreign-born women and men. For this year, the agency was added SEK 10 million to strengthen the promotion of foreign-born women's entrepreneurship.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-48	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is clear that it is sometimes fun when the world's labour market policy revolves around my constituency – Gävle and Gävleborg. The Prime Minister was recently in Gävle, and I think the Minister for Labour was there too. This led to a major report in the European journal Politico, which noted that Stefan Löfven has failed with his most important election promise: that next year, 2020, Sweden will have Europe's lowest unemployment rate. Now the Minister for Labour has a quarter, but there are few things that indicate that it will succeed. This week there was also a major feature of the Finnish public service, Yle, where a large report from Gävle described the extra services and how they had worked there. We note that the experts have condemned it as pointless, expensive and ineffective. The Government Anders Ygeman has also been in Gävle and held a press meeting. There was a big press conference where he told us that there would be another 761 seats at the University of Gävle. Well, that's good. Maybe someone thought. SVT went out with it, P4 went out with it, Gefle Dagblad went out with it and the Worker's leaf went out with it. It was just that the number was completely wrong. The University of Gävle says that it corresponds to 20 places – and this in a county that has very high unemployment. Just as we heard in the interpellation debate just now, our own new agency, which is created in Gävle, also has major problems with the working environment. Madam President, I would like If the government had succeeded in achieving its unemployment target, some 330 000 more people would have been in work. There would have been 330 000 more who had paid tax and 330 000 more who had not benefited from supply aid or other subsidies. Unfortunately, there are now many signs that the government will not reach its goal of achieving the EU's lowest unemployment rate. On the contrary, there will be an increase in unemployment. It is then, of course, a wish that the government had a policy for more jobs. What can the government influence? It is difficult to influence the economic situation in the world, but you can, for example, influence costs. Of course, the difference between the government's budget and the Moderates' budget for such a simple matter as the truck tax of SEK 80 000 per year has a major impact on competitiveness. I know Eva Nordmark usually tells me she's from Norrbotten. So am I. Then you know how important transport is. It is known how important it is for companies to be able to sell their products and maintain competitiveness and to be compensated for the long distances that exist. This makes a difference of 80 000 SEK per truck per year in truck tax. It makes a difference with a flight tax. It makes a difference for companies, who need to get out on their international market and sell their products. I have not seen anything in the Government's response that describes how to safeguard competitiveness and how to really counter the rise in unemployment. I don't even think the government itself believes that it makes any difference to raise a billion to the Public Employment Service. In the Government's follow-up response, I would like to be able to describe what the government is doing now. Does the Government believe that Sweden can reach the target of the EU's lowest unemployment rate in one quarter? How is competitiveness protected? And how do we ensure that companies now do not need to rationalise unnecessarily and can retain their valuable employees as we move towards a recession?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-59	Madam President, I would like Last Saturday there were a lot of people gathered and a lot of emotions in the square in Ånge. Steam is in my county of Västernorrland. Nearly 500 people came to a manifestation in support of those affected when the sawmill in the village of Östavall in the municipality of Ånge will now be closed. The closure means that more than 100 jobs are lost from Östavall. It's a village with less than 200 inhabitants. Ånge municipality has 9 000 inhabitants; 500 joined the demonstration. We can convert this into figures that would apply to Stockholm. Stockholm is 900 times the size of Ånge. That would have been 50 000 demonstrators – 50 000 demonstrators, Madam President! I am absolutely convinced that the government would then have stood and promised a great deal on the part of the state to help in the transition. Now it's quiet. It's crazy silence. Now the government and the Government need to act for Östavall and help with the difficult transition that Ånge and Östavall now need to make. I assume that the government will come to the rescue, just as you would have done if there had been 50 000 demonstrators outside and protested that 10 000 jobs had disappeared in the capital. Madam President, I would like Unemployment in Sweden is rising month by month. Hardest hit against the countryside. Places like Östavall have to pay an extremely high price for the government's inability to build Swedish competitiveness, the inability to improve our business environment and the inability to ensure that Swedish rural areas also develop. We heard just now in the debate by Lars Beckman about the government's truck tax of SEK 80 000 per truck per year. Many trucks go to a sawmill like Östavall, and it becomes expensive. Madam President, I would like Unemployment is now rising in Sweden, and especially affected towns such as Östavall. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: Does the government care about places like Östavall? What will the government do for Östavall and Ånge Municipality? Will you intervene and help in the transition, as you would have done if this had happened here in Stockholm?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-66	Madam President, I would like The boom in Sweden is over, and the Swedish economy is in a clear phase of slowdown. It tracks the Institute of Economics, KI, in its latest forecast. Employment is estimated to fall by as much as 0.8 per cent in the third quarter of this year, and unemployment is expected to rise to 7.1 per cent in 2020. This must be seen as a major failure for the government, which went out saying that by 2020 it would have Europe's lowest unemployment rate. Handelsbanken also makes the assessment that Sweden is moving towards a recession with rising unemployment. Growth is falling to 1.1 per cent this year. Unemployment is increasing for the first time since autumn 2017, according to new figures from Arbetsförmedlingen. In July, the total number — noting — was 344 000 people enrolled as unemployed, an increase of as much as 5 000 in one year. The risk of increased long-term unemployment is high, especially, of course, for those with short-term training. Unemployment has been reduced throughout the EU since 2014. However, Sweden's decline has been lowest throughout the EU. The SCB also shows that unemployment is now increasing in Sweden, as I said earlier. At the same time, labour markets in most other countries remain strong. Unemployment in the United States is down below 4 percent, the lowest level in 50 years. Germany has an unemployment rate of 3%, lowest since 1980. Denmark, our neighbour, is at an unemployment rate below 4%. Since the current government has not been able to implement any reforms that can be assumed to increase employment and growth, the need for new reforms is great for Sweden to continue to develop well. The lack of a clear line of work since 2014 can be illustrated by the fact that Sweden, since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister, has developed worse in terms of unemployment than all the other 27 EU countries – seriously! The costs of labour market policy interventions such as additional services, labour market training and preparatory training have increased for a long time. At the same time, the results have not been available. The effectiveness of these efforts must, of course, be increased. From the Moderates we have long been nagging that the government must use the money during the boom to equip Sweden for recession. Unemployment is too high for it to be a boom. That's remarkable. Should the rise in unemployment be similar to what we have seen in previous downturns, unemployment could reach very problematic levels. The government's labour market policy has failed, as I mentioned earlier. One question that is then appropriate is: What concrete measures does the Minister for Labour intend to take to try to improve the situation in the Swedish labour market?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-74	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to say that, of course, I fully agree with Lars Beckman's and Mrs Quicklund's description of how optimistic hopes regarding Swedish unemployment have been dashed. However, I would like to mention another aspect in my speech, namely the importance of the business environment for the success of growth and jobs. Madam President, I would like Barely a week ago, we had the date of October 4. Aha, Cinnamon Bull's Day! someone may then exclaim. Aha, a day when entrepreneurship is in focus! Rather, the older one may exclaim. On 4 October, I and nearly one hundred thousand others my age associate with the great protest against employee funds. The protests of companies eventually turned that idea into the rubbish heap of history. But they also led to any attention being paid to the conditions for business. Precisely what the conditions look like is crucial for our growth and for how many jobs are created in our companies. Or worded in a different way: How is the Swedish business environment – and, I would say, the climate for entrepreneurs? The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise annually measures the business environment in all our municipalities. When the result is poor, it often happens that, just as the Minister for Employment now does, the municipal executives refer to various different government measures or grants to authorities that should be responsible for contributing to more jobs. Now it is only that such measures rarely achieve the desired result. It is not possible to direct jobs, and entrepreneurs cannot be fooled into hiring just because some temporary support measure is put in place. What the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise measures are the companies' experiences of the business environment. If you think that the government, and for that matter its own municipality, genuinely wants to create long-term stable and favourable conditions for entrepreneurship, you also dare to invest in the future. You dare to expand, and you also dare to hire. Madam President, I would like From a real local level, when it comes to a district here in Stockholm and also from elsewhere, I often hear frustrated entrepreneurs' complaints about the business environment. What they say can be about everything from tax issues to parking facilities or street work that makes it difficult for business customers Common to many entrepreneurs is that they feel that the government does not care much about companies other than as a tax object. Therefore, when the Moderate Business Council in Stockholm just a week ago made once again a day of entrepreneurship of 4 October was not enough for the well-acquired premises. The interest was enormous. Madam President, I would like Of course, it is possible to exemplify with many necessary measures to improve the business environment, but a good start is that the government listens to the companies and realises that credibility around the government's employment policy requires precisely long-term stable and favourable conditions. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Labour is what she intends to do to achieve this and to have a good business and entrepreneurial climate.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-82	Madam President, I would like That's a lot of questions. Let me begin by saying that my perspective as Minister of Labour and Social Democrats is that work is always the basis for our prosperity as well as for creating competitiveness for our country. Sweden is one of the world's best countries to both live in and work in. But we have some challenges. I would like to say that it is the hard work of employees and entrepreneurs that has contributed to the prosperity that we have today. We should be proud of this, and we must safeguard the important efforts of both companies and employees. For a social democrat, jobs always come first, and it is important to emphasise that. We need to ensure a strong competitiveness for our country, because it is about the future and about being able to ensure that companies have good conditions and that people living and working in this country should have the best conditions for being able to feel safe in their working lives and be able to develop. When we talk about competitiveness, I would like to say that what I see is that the big challenge for Sweden and the entire labour market, as many companies also point out, is that the lack of staff with the right skills is a major growth barrier. Companies say that it is precisely the problem of recruiting that makes them unable to deliver orders. Municipalities and regions describe that it is precisely the lack of the right skills in the form of specialist nurses, nurses, carers and other important occupational groups that may not allow us to maintain the quality that we need. Ensuring skills and ensuring that we have a labour market policy and an education policy that enables employers to employ the skills they need and that people also have the opportunity to have a job and self-sufficiency, but also the opportunity to grow and develop through a full career – these are issues that I am passionate about. I hope that in this House we can ensure long-term and stable rules of play between all parties. The policy has an important task to ensure that companies, the parties in the Swedish labour market, authorities and various actors know the rules of the game. For me, it is very important to build stable rules over time. With regard to the example of Ånge, I believe that given the changing working life and the labour market in our country and around the world, we need to have systems that facilitate the transition and provide security for people in transition and that can also become more concrete regionally and locally. It's got to work at the resort. I think we have a great opportunity to turn politics around. Me and the Prime Minister were in Gävle last week. We visited Gävle for the reason that it is a county with high unemployment. We need to ensure that there are tools to ensure that people get a job and that companies get the skills they need. That is how we create prosperity and prosperity in our country.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-89	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Fine words can be delivered by anyone. What the Government says is completely uncontroversial. We fully agree that we should have good conditions for those who are employed in companies and in public authorities. It is completely uncontroversial that we should have good conditions for business. We are therefore in complete agreement on this, so we can put aside this debate. What this is about is, of course, what the government is doing now when it has wasted a boom. Just as Saila Quicklund went through here in terms of statistics, reality is the government's worst enemy. The reality is that Sweden has deteriorated, deteriorated and deteriorated in terms of participation in the labour market. When it comes to the Prime Minister's visit to Gävle together with the Government, he was asked by SVT Gävleborg when unemployment will fall in Gävleborg. As the Government says, unemployment is very high there. The answer was: I cannot answer when unemployment in Gävleborg comes to the same level as the kingdom, but of course Gävleborg will have a much lower unemployment rate. Now we do not know, Madam President, whether it was as a Social Democrat or as Prime Minister he spoke, but I assume that the Prime Minister is always on duty. Transport is very important in Gävleborg. It is crucial for the manufacturing industry in Ljusdal, for example, that you can transport intermediate products up to Ljusdal and that you can transport Toyota cabs down to Mjölby overnight. You probably have to be a social democrat or possibly belong to a cooperation party to the Social Democrats in order not to think that 80 000 SEK per year in a truck tax or 60 billion in tax increases affects competitiveness. Neither I nor anyone else in this House will probably hold the government responsible for the decline of the world economy, but what we will hold the Government responsible for is the policy pursued in Sweden. It should be the responsibility of every government to safeguard competitiveness, protect the business environment and protect companies throughout Sweden. Then it is not good enough to introduce airline tax which means that Norrbotten's entrepreneurs get increased expenses. It is not good enough to have a truck tax of 80 000 kroner per year compared to the Moderates' budget. It is not good enough to be answerless to the question: when will unemployment fall? The Prime Minister was in himself honest to say he couldn't answer that. When a target was set for us to have the EU's lowest unemployment in a few months' time, would it not have been reasonable, Madam President, to have pursued a policy that had steered towards it? One example is the promise of the 761 training places at the University of Gävle that turned out to be a numerical blur. The University Vice-Chancellor went out in Gefle Dagblad – all the credit to her for showing it civil courage – and said: Well, it's about 20 places – we don't understand how the government has counted. This seems to be the case with most of the policy of this government. It's the siff errixan they and nice words, but it's not good enough. There must be a reality behind the words. When a truck tax of 80 000 SEK per year is introduced and the costs for businesses are raised and the recession is approaching, unemployment will be speeded up. It won't sink.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-100	Madam President, I would like The lack of answers from the Government to the people of Östavall and other places in Sweden that are now suffering from higher unemployment is telling. The government does not care about Sweden's countryside. If I am very generous, Madam President, and interpret what the Government said in her speech, she meant that we have challenges. Let me say that for the people who live in Ånge and Östavall it is a great understatement. Madam President, I would like The Government also said that it is largely about what you do at the local level. Let me then inform the Government that Ånge Municipality is already governed by the government's own party, the Social Democrats, by universal suffrage. I would like to give the Government another opportunity to give a reply. Will the government come up with a package of measures for Östavall and Ånge? It's a must, in my opinion. If not, I wonder why. I am convinced that the government would have done so if it had been 50,000 Stockholmers who had stood here and demonstrated for 10,000 jobs that disappeared. Why do the government and the Government make a difference between people in Sweden's countryside and people in Sweden's capital? My second question is: what has the government done to increase the competitiveness of industry, not least in rural areas? The truck tax of 80 000 SEK per year does not strengthen competitiveness. On the contrary! It degrades it. Madam President, I would like The people of Ånge and Östavall deserve an answer from the Government.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-105	Madam President, I would like Unemployment among foreign-born people has reached record levels and is now equivalent to half of all unemployed people. Getting stuck in dependency is devastating for both the individual and society. Therefore, the Moderates take a great deal of time for the contributions in the budget exercise. We propose stricter requirements for obtaining supply support, qualification into the benefit system, strong action against subsidy fraud and a premium ceiling that makes it always worthwhile to take a job. Not least, the Moderates reinforce the job tax deduction so that everyone who earns more than SEK 13,000 a month receives a tax cut of approximately SEK 3,200 a year. Overall, with the tax relief implemented in the 2019 budget, an average wage earner receives a reduced tax of approximately SEK 500 per month. Together, the overall reforms in this area mean that more people will go from contributions to jobs. My question to the Government concerns Arbetsförmedlingen. The Moderates have pushed the issue of reform. We need a sharper and smaller authority that focuses on equipping the long-term unemployed so that they can move from subsidies to jobs. Then smaller players can manage the match, with which there are major problems today. The employment agency has a low level of confidence in general. As far as unemployment is concerned, developments in Sweden have been the worst in Europe since Stefan Löfven took office as Prime Minister, as I mentioned earlier.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-110	Madam President, I would like We are, of course, looking forward to the Minister for Employment's speech on the importance of long-term stable and good conditions for companies also manifesting in actions of various kinds, so that it does not just stop at fair and by all means well-meaning words. I have experience in local cooperation with companies. My first action when I became chairman of a district council here in Stockholm was to create a business council for the district that had 60 000 inhabitants. When 3,000 jobs suddenly disappear in Farsta, which also happened when Telia closed down there, the consequences are not the same as in Ånge. Here you can move to work elsewhere in the city. However, it is also important to clarify with the remaining companies and potential Farsta companies what is really required to want to be in or move to Farsta, establish themselves there and get companies to grow. It is important to have continuous dialogue with businesses and entrepreneurs. What can we do to want to grow here and now and have the faith in the future to dare to hire? What can we do to avoid walking around with the feeling that anything can happen to us just because things happen to be going well at the moment and that you should become an interesting cash cow again? Long-term stability also requires action.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-113	Madam President, I would like The Swedish labour market will change a lot in the coming years. I'm convinced of that. I hope so, too. Artificial intelligence, technology shifts, automation, robotics and a completely necessary green transition will have an impact on what both business and the labour market will look like. In this situation, we need to ensure that we have stable, robust systems that are able to cope with the changeover. This will ensure that business and the labour market can change smoothly so that both companies and employees are successful in this transition. I am quite new as a minister and have extensive experience working with the business community on these issues in my trade union role. I see the importance of us, together with many different actors, being able to hook arms in order to handle the conversion in a smooth way. There are a number of tools that are very important for Sweden to be successful and competitive in that part. I believe that it is both about promoting innovation and about investing in education policy so that it is more flexible and more adapted to the needs of the labour market and business. Labour market policy is important. I am proud that we have now been able to talk about the investment of 1.3 billion in labour market policy. There are a number of measures there that play a major role, such as labour market training. Both companies and employers and trade unions have pointed out how important it is to cooperate on these issues. The additional services were also mentioned. They may not have the highest efficiency. But they play a very important role for individuals, who thus have the opportunity to still be out in the workplace and have better opportunities to make a living. I therefore believe that this is a package of measures, ranging from innovation capacity to ensuring that we have an adapted education policy and an effective labour market policy that is accurate in the efforts we are making. But it's also about things like unemployment insurance, which means that people don't get poor if they lose their job. It is about ensuring that people of adult age can validate their previous knowledge and experience and that they receive study and career guidance. It won't look like it did before. Then we were able to train at a young age and then have the same job right up to retirement. We will have to be able to change several times through working life. This is important for Swedish competitiveness. When there is increased competition from the outside world and when we can take part in new technology shifts, we need to be able to ensure both that there is the capacity among companies to take care of this and that employees have the conditions and knowledge and skills needed to implement new knowledge. In this way, we ensure that our employers, both companies and the public sector, can grow and develop.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-118	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. During one morning I had a round table discussion together with some of Gävleborg's most successful foreign-born entrepreneurs. They operate in different industries. I got their suggestions and ideas: Attitude to entrepreneurship and work must be improved. It must always pay to work rather than live passively on benefits. There are job vacancies in many different sectors, but the combined effect of different grants means that it can be more profitable to live on grants instead of working. A large service company in Gävle said that the consequence is that many do not apply for the jobs that exist. It is important to learn Swedish and to integrate into Swedish society. Understanding values and attitudes toward society are also very important. I got with me an example from a lawyer from Ukraine, who was in an SFI class where the difference was great. Some had no reading or writing difficulties whatsoever. It goes without saying that the level of education may then differ. Furthermore, all entrepreneurs highlight taxes as an important part of this. It is also felt that we politicians should visit England to find out, among other things, how it is that so many people from Somalia run companies there, while they do not do so in Sweden. I think it is useful to listen to those who have done this. I also think it is useful for us politicians to draw conclusions from what we hear and what the entrepreneurs say. I note that in the Government's written reply there was very little of what the foreign-born entrepreneurs think is most important. The government was not, as I said, on either low or boom, but domestic policies and safeguarding competitiveness are directly responsible for.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-125	Madam President, I would like If there is something that must be the focus of Swedish labour market policy, it is precisely to contribute to competitiveness and prosperity. It's my absolute compass. We must ensure that we have a reliable labour market policy that enables companies to employ the skills they need and that people have the opportunity to enter the labour market or, if they are already in, to develop in a full professional life. This must be the focus because it is this that builds Sweden strong. We spoke earlier about Gävle. I can tell you that there are a lot of exciting projects there. I have had the opportunity to visit some of the courses aimed at new arrivals. One of these projects turned to academics who studied the Swedish language. I had to sit down and talk to them about the opportunities they saw ahead of them to use the knowledge and skills they have with them from their home countries. Learning the Swedish language and getting part of some of the efforts makes it possible to contribute to the Swedish labour market. I think we need to learn a lot from such projects. I am therefore pleased that we are now introducing intensive years and investing in the start-up jobs that are the parties' proposals. A great deal of effort is under way and will come next year, and we have set aside funds for this in the budget. I am pleased with the great commitment to labour market policy and would like to conclude by saying that jobs always go first. Everyone who can work should work.
i-6Pu29RDHf8MbX9t3dTKWku	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Mikael Damberg, Minister for Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan, Minister Jennie Nilsson and Minister Anna Hallberg, who participates in Question Time for the first time, so warmly welcome! An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-129	Madam President, I would like Yesterday, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven visited Skåne. He said then that Sweden must reduce the reception of asylum. We Moderates share this view but differ from him on two important points. Firstly, we want immigration to be reduced considerably more, and secondly, we are voting in this House as we say we are voting. Time and again Stefan Löfven has said that volumes must be reduced, but time and again the Social Democrats in this House have voted in favour of increased immigration, for example through the High School Act and through increased family immigration. My question to Mikael Damberg is: Should voters listen to what Stefan Löfven says or how the Social Democrats vote in this House?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-133	Madam President, I would like Sweden defends the right to asylum and must have a humane, legally secure and sustainable migration policy. Politics should be broadly based, and that is also why the government has initiated a parliamentary committee with all parties in the Riksdag. The committee has been given the government's mandate to make proposals for a long-term sustainable migration policy that will enter into force when the extension we have decided on expires. The number of people seeking asylum in Sweden has decreased sharply in recent years compared to when we reached record levels. It was a situation that Sweden is not going back to. Right now we have the lowest levels in 13 years. But it is important that politics be long-term, and that is why we have invited all parliamentary parties to parliamentary work to anchor such a policy.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-136	Madam President, I would like Yesterday the Prime Minister visited Malmö, a prime minister for a country in the middle of an integration crisis. Reducing asylum immigration is crucial. But the question is what the Prime Minister and the Social Democrats really want. Is it double-crossing and shuddering outwards when you say that you want to reduce immigration but actually let the Green Party decide in the government?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-138	Madam President, I would like The government has shown that it was prepared to make the necessary decisions to put order in a situation that was totally unreasonable in 2015 and 2016. We then saw a decrease and therefore have the lowest reception rates in Sweden for 13 years. However, we need a long-term approach, and above all there is a need for a common European responsibility. An important point for Sweden in the European work is that we get more of a common asylum policy in the EU where all countries are involved and take responsibility. It was unreasonable when only a few countries bore European responsibility. We're not going back to that situation.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-141	Madam President, I would like Many of us rejoiced that the Islamic State was crushed in Syria after many years, and we felt the hope of a better future for all those who had been enslaved and oppressed by this terror cult. Several countries have been involved in the resistance to IS, but perhaps the single most important force was the troops from the SDF who fought on the ground against the terror cult. They are about ordinary people who risked everything in this struggle and to whom we have a duty to express our gratitude. Madam President, I would like In this situation, it is completely incomprehensible how the outside world, including Sweden, can only look at Turkey attacking the greatest heroes of the war against the absolutely worst terrorist organization of our time. It is an enormous and unforgettable betrayal. It is, of course, a good thing that, after many days, the government has finally called Turkey's ambassador to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and then condemned Turkey's actions. But, Madam President, that is not enough. Does the government have any other plans to stop Turkey's ongoing violations of international law?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-145	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Government condemns Turkey's actions. It is irresponsible and a violation of international law, and it risks having serious humanitarian consequences and can also lead to a return of IS/ Daish. The most important thing now is to bring together the European family in a joint, strong action and to ensure that the UN Security Council takes the responsibility it has for securing international peace and security. We believe that the UN must shoulder its responsibilities and prevent further escalation. We are, of course, in close contact with the Kurdish groupings and with countries in the region. We will continue to follow this issue closely, for this is certainly not what this part of the world needs. After more than eight years of war, the situation was finally a little calmer, and the UN envoy said that there were political ways forward. This happens, and it is of course very serious. Sweden will continue to act vigorously, and we will continue to condemn this violation of international law.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-149	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, a good thing that the government condemns this, and I am convinced that I and the Swedish Democrats share the government's view on what is happening right now. However, what I was trying to find out was that judgment is not enough. It does not help against a leader like Erdo and his rule. More decisive action is needed. Is the government prepared to impose sanctions and arms embargo on Turkey or in any way to send humanitarian aid to those living in Rojava?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-152	Madam President, I would like Sweden will continue to act on this issue. We will continue to seek international cooperation so that not only one country acts, and the European Union is a much stronger voice than individual countries. We also expect the UN Security Council, which is responsible for ensuring international peace and security, to act in this serious situation. I am absolutely sure that Europe will be able to act vigorously in the coming weeks and months. However, the most important thing right now is to ensure that the situation does not escalate and cool down.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-154	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Rural Affairs. Last spring, the Parliament issued an announcement to the government to introduce seal hunting. I think that many with me were pleasantly surprised when the government during the summer announced that they will instruct the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to proceed with license hunting on grey seal. But the fact is that it is not only grey seal that is a problem, but also chubby seals on the west coast and bays in the Gulf of Bothnia are causing major problems for fish stocks and, not least, for the coastal fishermen that are so important to Sweden – the fishermen. Therefore, I wonder when we can expect a decision on licensing to come, but above all, I wonder whether the government intends to include chubby seals and coves in the licence hunt.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-158	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Kristina Yngwe! As reported, we adopted decisions in the spring, and these were prompted by much of the Ice report that came and that described the situation of the Baltic cod. It meant that Sweden chose to react with a number of different measures linked to both fishing and that we went on to give directives to look at enabling licence hunting on grey seals, which is the problem that has been identified linked to Baltic cod. We also gave a mission to look at other measures to restore the marine environment in the Baltic Sea, which is a major problem. That's one part. Then seal is also a problem in several other areas. There is ongoing work here to look at both tools and how we should work with protection hunting in these areas.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-161	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I think it is good that the government wants to base itself on research in the field of grey seal and that the government sees it as a major problem. However, we can see that the chubby seal is also a major problem for the cod stock on the west side and that, for example, the vendace is very exposed to bays, so it would be sad if the government chose not to listen to the research in these cases. We need a joint administration with Finland, which actually has a licence hunt. What does the government intend to do?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-164	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kristina. It can be seen that we have extremely short time to talk about these issues, as we talk fast both. Of course, we follow the questions and look at the recommendations that exist. When it comes to chubby seals, it is also possible to look at it from a conservation status perspective. As far as folding is concerned, the situation is different, but we are, of course, following the question.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-166	Madam President, I would like Turkey's bombs and military are currently pouring into the Kurdish-dominated areas of northern Syria, and Turkey's President Erdo中an is committing a crime of international law and crimes against humanity. After criticism, the Swedish Government has now expressed a condemnation of Turkey's actions. Sweden's arms exports to Turkey have multiplied over the past four years, and several Swedish companies are cooperating with the Turkish military industry. In this situation, Sweden, like Finland, should put on the leadership shirt and stop all arms exports to Turkey and demand that the EU impose an arms embargo. The government can also stop human suffering by providing humanitarian aid to northern Syria and by promoting the introduction of a no-fly zone. Moreover, all EU aid to Turkey should be frozen. The EU has put itself on Turkey's knees by signing the refugee agreement, which means that four million refugees have become a pawn in the cynical game of Erdo中an. Madam President, I would like I therefore wonder whether the Swedish Government will go from words to actions to stop Turkey's abuse. Will the government put an end to arms exports and push for a no-fly zone and provide humanitarian aid?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-169	Madam President, I would like This is a serious situation in the region. Turkey is violating international law, and this has been condemned by the government. There I think it feels safe to know that a large part of Sweden's parliament is united in this view and that Sweden can be a strong voice for international peace and justice in this serious situation. I think we agree that there are great points in coordinating the European vote, which is much more powerful, and that the UN must assume its responsibilities in such serious situations. That's where I think we're on the same page. With regard to the issue of arms exports and Finland, I would like to say that this is a rather limp comparison because the Finnish system is very different from the Swedish one. In Finland, it is ministers who decide on the authorisation of arms exports, while in Sweden we have chosen a different order, which the Riksdag has decided on. In 2018, there was no export of war material for combat to Turkey, and this year no exit permits have been issued.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-171	Madam President, I would like The problem is that the minister's point of reference is wrong. Last year, Sweden exported arms to Turkey worth 298.9 million. It was about explosives, electronics, armor plate and camouflage. Of course, these are not things you kill people with, but they are things that facilitate the Turkish invasion. I think that the Swedish Government now has a unique opportunity to show clarity by stopping arms exports and putting on the leadership shirt in the EU for the introduction of an arms embargo from Europe. You will have support in this from the entire Swedish parliament, Mikael Damberg.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-173	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Riksdag has quite recently established a new and more strict regulatory framework for Swedish arms exports. This is what Parliament has taken a position on, and that is what the government is acting on. One must see the issue in a slightly broader context than talking about freezing all cooperation with Turkey in this situation. With regard to the 4 million refugees who are present in Turkey today and for which the EU is paying, I do not think the wisest thing would be to say today that the European Union should not fulfil its agreements, as all these 4 million people would then be on the run to Europe.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-176	Madam President, I would like Shops in Sweden are hard hit. Major societal changes are taking place that affect shops' ability to operate. They are also threatened by recurrent crime. These crimes are a major problem, not least from an industrial point of view. Neither entrepreneurs nor employees should have to put up with constant thefts and threats. This, Madam President, is a business environment because when traders consider whether they are capable of running their shop further, jobs are threatened, in addition, in an industry where many have their first job. This must be a major issue for the whole government, but especially for a minister of industry who claims to want a better business environment.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-178	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hampus Hagman, for an urgent question! We protect a good business environment in Sweden, and we do this because it is clear that a strong business sector is an inalienable part of a society that has high ambitions for its well-being and development. We can note that when Sweden is compared with other countries, which was last done today, we make a good claim. But that is not enough; we must continue to develop. Then security and order are a central issue for the government. Then what have we done? In the five years that we have been sitting, we have gradually strengthened the resources for police and police forces and introduced more opportunities to prosecute people, set up cameras, have security guards, and more to create security. Basically, there is no shortcut. In addition, we have a close dialogue with the business community on what we could do further than the strengthening of the judiciary and on the conditions that business needs.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-182	Madam President, I would like The reinforcements to the police that are taking place are positive, and there are many of us here who agree on this. But the government must do much more and work much faster. For example, traders must be given the opportunity to port those who steal and threaten. An Ica dealer in Sätra told us last spring that he reported 50 crimes in one year only in a single store. I am glad that someone at all wants to run a store under these conditions. The government must do more and introduce the new legislation.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-184	Madam President, I would like Yes, the government has to do more. There we are in complete agreement. I think there is never such a situation where we can say that we are ready, because it is both a crime that is changing and new challenges and problems that arise. I think it is important that we continue to work on strengthening the judiciary, because it must basically be on the judiciary to prosecute such things. I do not believe that this should be put on individual traders. This leaves the seat. The government will deal with this in the budget that is at the table of the Riksdag and which means further reinforcements.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-187	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Damberg. Next year we will take a new directional decision here in the Riksdag for a civil and military defence. In the field of military defence, the Ministry of Defence has requested opinions from its authorities, the Swedish Materiel Administration and the Swedish Armed Forces by 15 November this year. As regards civil defence, which is much more complex, the Government and the Ministry of Justice have requested opinions from 20 different authorities by 2 March 2020. I believe that the civil defence bill will affect all departments of the government. My question is: what does the Government intend to do in order for us in this House to be able to take a comprehensive defence decision next autumn?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-192	Madam President, I would like I thank Allan Widman for an important question. Now we are making strong efforts to strengthen the entire total defense. The problem is that civil defence is largely decommissioned. It is not phased out in terms of legislation, but many of the resources and capacities that Sweden previously had are not in place today. This means that we have a wide range of investigations that are in place and will deliver their results. Of course, we received the Defense Committee's report. We have also received the opinions of MSB and the Swedish Armed Forces. Now they go out to a large number of authorities that get to prioritise, make their assessments and quantify important efforts. This will be an important basis for the orientation decision. However, I am honest with saying that not everything will fit into the orientation bill because not everything will be finished. However, I believe that we must have a clear direction for the most important areas and that this must be pointed out in the orientation proposal.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-196	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. Industry is now making major changes. This week, I and some parliamentary colleagues met with SSAB's board of directors. We got information about their Hybrid project, which consists of producing fossil-free steel, which is completely unique in the world. SSAB now says that it is ready to advance its transition to 2026. This is, of course, fantastic news, while there are great challenges. These are long state-of-the-art processes, the availability of renewable energy and the risk of the market being flooded by ful steel, i.e. steel from producers in countries where there is a lack of proper environmental legislation.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-199	Madam President, I would like I thank Patrik Engström for an urgent question. We work very closely with the Swedish industry to both cope with the necessary transformation and take advantage of the fact that Sweden is one of the countries that has come the longest and that Swedish industry is one of the industries that has come the longest. S can withstand without coal is a good example. But we have more xempels. Volvo and Scania develop either low-emission vehicles or zero-emission vehicles. Ragnsell develops innovations for recycling and the circular economy. Northvolt is going to establish battery production. Then it is a matter of a number of conditions. We have access to fairly low-carbon electricity in this country. However, it is important to build wires so that they come out. We have very good conditions and very close cooperation in the field of research and development. But we also need funding. All of this we work with both to be able to show that it is possible to change and to develop jobs and entrepreneurship in Sweden.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-201	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. We have great challenges. But at the same time, as the Minister describes, there are great opportunities. I'll allow myself to do a little reconnaissance for the future. Until 2045, we must have changed. Does the Minister think we will succeed in that?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-203	Madam President, I would like It's 25 years from now, and 25 years can sound like a long time. But it is a short time in many of these contexts. History teaches us that once you have started a development – it often takes a little longer than you thought – it often goes much faster than you thought. I am convinced that this is possible, and I am convinced that it is good for industry and its competitiveness. I am also convinced that it is good for our country. This is therefore one of the most important and fun missions.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-206	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Damberg. Everyone should feel safe when they go to football games. This is something that has actually developed a lot in recent years, which means that more and more people feel safe in Swedish football stadiums. The keys behind this have been interaction and dialogue between the various players in football. This is, in fact, now threatened quite a bit by the police's own actions in relation to the conditionality that they are using. It is a legally unconvincing method whereby individual disruption situations lead to the collective punishment of tens of thousands of common supporters. One of the problems is that it is confidence in the police that is eroded when they use this kind of legal uncertainty.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-210	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by agreeing that it is problematic that some form of discussion that is not confident has been put together between supporters and the police. Maybe it's not the first time in history that it's been like that. There have been some waves when these conflicts have arisen. But you should be aware that the police also have to comply with the law of order. It is the organisers who are responsible for safe and secure arrangements. Provenly, they do not always handle this. Then it is important to have a dialogue on the way forward. But ultimately the police must be able to guarantee security for everyone who attends events. I go to football matches myself and think it is incredibly important that both families with children and others can feel safe when they go to football matches. I said dialogue is important. But last weekend, I was upset. I was in the morning at an event where it was a memorial for all police officers and police employees who passed away on duty. On the same day, I see big banners in the stands about hating the police. That is not acceptable.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-213	Madam President, I would like That is where I share the position of the Government. I too was badly moved by this. At the same time, we know that this exasperated lawsuit comes as a result of the legal uncertainty that the police use. This also says the associations themselves and the support groups that have been so good at actually improving the atmosphere in Swedish arenas. Mikael Damberg is himself a football supporter, even if he is on the wrong team. But he should also recognize the importance of a good supporter culture. Here, dialogue is the solution.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-215	Madam President, I would like I share the view that dialogue is important. I also share the view that the police must be able to comply with and enforce the law. That's their job. It is not a negotiating situation to uphold law. It's the police's statutory task. I hope and believe that you will see that this situation is not good and that you can find a better position for dialogue. But ultimately the police must be able to maintain law and order even on football arrangements.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-217	Madam President, I would like I address Anna Hallberg and welcome her into this House as Minister of Trade and Nordic Minister of Cooperation. A number of years ago Sweden introduced border controls. The reason for this was the migration wave that we had experienced in 2015 with over 160 000 coming to our country. But it has also caused great inconvenience for people living in Skåne and Denmark. Denmark has now announced that, as a result of what it perceives as an inadequate policy in Sweden against gang crime and to push against insecurity, it will introduce border controls vis-à-vis Sweden. Then I wonder how the Nordic Minister for Cooperation views the very idea of the Nordic Passport Freedom Union, which we have had for decades. Swedish insecurity and gang crime, which the government does nothing about, force the Danes to introduce border controls in the Öresund area. What does the Minister think?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-221	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Wallmark for an important and topical question. From a Nordic cooperation perspective, it is of course unfortunate with all forms of border barriers. We from Sweden, together with the Nordic countries, have worked to combat all forms of border barriers, not only in terms of trade but in terms of barriers at all. Sweden has also had border barriers, and that was mentioned to Denmark now border barriers. Sometimes it is necessary for various reasons, but it is most unfortunate. The government's hope is that it's highly temporary. We must, of course, work to address the factors that drive border barriers, so that we remove these border barriers as soon as possible. It is also in the interest of Nordic cooperation.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-224	Madam President, I would like It may be understandable to introduce temporary border controls by the Swedish side given the migration wave we saw earlier, and given what is happening now in Turkey and Syria, it may also be quite wise. But Denmark is introducing border controls against Sweden, which is led by a Social Democratic government, because they do not trust that we can deal with our own crime and gang crime! That is why border control is being introduced. How does it rhyme with the idea of Nordic passport freedom?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-225	Madam President, I would like This is, of course, a problem that the government has identified, and we are putting forward a strong package of measures on it in the budget proposal that has just been submitted. It is the government's conviction that this will lead us to take the necessary measures to slow down the wave and the worrying developments that have taken place on this issue. As I mentioned earlier, it is our ambition that these border barriers should be as short-term as possible.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-227	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Damberg. On Monday, two guards were shot watching a property house in Rinkeby. This is a serious social threat facing Sweden, and the judiciary is increasingly facing the task of taking control of the situation. It is time to tackle the escalation of violence that is spreading. The problem that exists is not solved by the government denouncing people's perceived feelings of insecurity and drawing Parliament's announcements and investigations in the long term to make it appear that the government is in control of the situation. Now it is not just policemen who are being shot at – innocent citizens are being hit when they happen to be in the wrong place, and guards are being shot at when they do their job. The question is no longer when the next shooting will take place, but who is next. The escalation of violence that the police are unable to deal with today forces operators to buy security services from private companies.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-231	Madam President, I would like One of the government's most prioritised tasks is to push back gang violence and increase security in Sweden. That's why we're building up the police so there'll be 10,000 more police employees in 2024. It is the most powerful expansion of the police force in Swedish history. In addition, we have given the police new tools, such as the possibility of camera surveillance, which increases security not least in the most vulnerable areas today. From the turn of the year, the police also have the opportunity to decide for themselves when and where they want to use cameras. We tighten up a number of penalties – we have done so in the past and continue to do so – to prevent gangs from coming into contact with explosives or getting hold of weapons used in these shootings. We have presented a whole package of 34 points, which came about after discussions with several other parties in this House – it is a whole bunch of packages – to push this back further. We have decided: we are going to push this back, and we are going to do it forcefully. The police are already gathering power today and will do more. However, it is incredibly worrying when innocent people are affected, and this applies not least to the watchman who was shot some time ago.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-234	Madam President, I would like The government continues to take measures that obviously do not have enough effect to maintain a sense of normality. There are constant references to certain punitive measures, which are usually imposed by the opposition, and they take credit for examining proposals that have been reserved for all years but now say to be implemented. It is deeply disturbing and totally unacceptable that such a serious incident should not be taken more seriously by the government. The question is: When will there be a real change?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-236	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely convinced that the direction we have chosen in Sweden – not only to expand the police forcefully and give them new powers and tools, but also to tighten up the legislation – will have an effect. It must then be combined with something that unfortunately the Swedish Democrats rarely care about, namely preventive work. It is about social efforts to prevent young people from being drawn into the criminal environment. The Head of the National Police says that it is absolutely necessary to do both, and that is what the government will push for.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-238	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Hallberg. The issue is about Sweden's export and investment promotion activities through the authorities Team Sweden, Business Sweden and so on, which the Minister is well aware of. The background is that we are doing extensive work in this area. There are things you can have views on – the Swedish National Audit Office has recently had it – but it is also the case that the regions, and even municipalities, work very actively on this. After talking to a number of regions, however, my view is that the synchronisation is missing or at least not sufficient. My question to the Minister is therefore: do you share my view of the synchronisation, the ability to cooperate and the ability to coordinate, and do you have any thoughts and ideas on how it could be improved?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-241	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a question that lies with me as a newly-responsive minister very close to the heart, Per Schöldberg! The previous export strategy launched by the government in 2015 included the establishment of regional export centres. The aim was to coordinate all public actors – state and regional – involved in export and export promotion. It has come a long way in coordinating efforts and reaching out with them regionally. I would now like to take the next step, which is to get even closer to companies and, above all, to help small and medium-sized enterprises throughout Sweden to reach out beyond their borders. I therefore share the view that we now need to take the next step. We have put in place a good platform for this work, but we must now enter the next phase. Then we must work even more closely together – and even more in the international market. The big challenge for small and medium-sized enterprises is often to dare and want to reach beyond Sweden's borders. There's one job left to do, and I'm looking forward to doing it.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-244	Madam President, I would like Then my question to the Government is: Do you see an opportunity to work much more through the regions? Is it possible to create a better force in this and a better exchange throughout the system? I see a little of a lack of system thinking in this.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-245	Madam President, I would like I fully agree that the regions are crucial in this, but in fact this also applies to the municipalities. We have to go all the way down and out into the local community to work together. Therefore, cooperation between the state, region and municipality will be very much involved in the forthcoming export strategy, which I hope to be able to present in a fairly short time.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-247	Madam President, I would like My question concerns the Swedish National Audit Office's supervision of the Swedish Competition Authority. It is a very worrying report with regard to how the Swedish Competition Authority works with corruption. The Competition Authority receives a lot of tips about the formation of cartels and incorrect or even illegal procurements. These are phenomena that affect how much of our public money goes to the benefit of processes and companies that are not regular. It affects how people feel about and how much trust they have in society, which ultimately affects democracy. My question to Minister Baylan is: How does the Swedish government intend to work to ensure that the priority of corruption is really a basis for investigation at the Swedish Competition Authority, even though you have not got the budget you need?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-250	Madam President, I would like I believe that we all agree in this House that in a society where corruption is allowed to grow, a cancer is formed. It affects not only democracy, but the experience of many of the countries where corruption is common in society is that it also affects the economy – the foundation of the welfare society we still have. The government has through a large number of changes, government missions and more focused further on combating corruption. Although Sweden is today ranked as one of the countries where there is the least corruption, we should not settle down, but we will continue to fight this both through the Competition Authority and through our law enforcement authorities. If this is established in a society, it beats the whole of society – both trust in each other and economic development – and we definitely should not do that.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-252	Madam President, I would like After all, there is a global tendency for us to move towards more corruption. Sometimes it is suggested by various civil law organisations that this requires a national action plan, because it is such a complex issue where many authorities have to work with each other. Is there something you're working on, or do you have something else that will allow you to take proper action against corruption?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-253	Madam President, I would like I think we need to work with all the tools we have. Perhaps the most important thing is the openness that exists in Swedish society. I believe that one of the reasons why Sweden is ranked as one of the countries where corruption occurs least is the principle of public access and the possibility for journalists and citizens to examine what we are doing and how things are done. I believe that we need to make further efforts, not least with regard to public procurement where there is a large amount of money.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-256	Madam President, I would like Last Monday I visited together with Lars Hjälmered and my party colleagues from regional and municipal level Malmö, Trelleborg and Ystad. We met the business community, the companies Pågen and Polychemistry and the South Swedish Chamber of Commerce. It is a serious picture that is described on the basis that companies should be able to expand and expand. There is now no effect locally – so there is a lack of effect. There are measures that the government can take here and now to tackle this in the short term. Therefore, I would like to ask Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan whether he intends to act in order to ensure that the energy issue is not a brake on the lack of development and growth for business and jobs in Skåne and South Sweden.
i-Uy2c6Spmf1d51LHCihk7GA	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for the question! Energy and access to energy are, of course, crucial for both industrial and social development in a modern society. In addition, when we in Sweden have the largest surplus of electricity we have ever had – 14 terawatt hours in the first half of the year – we must, of course, do our utmost to ensure that it also gets where it is going. The reason why we have the problems we have, both in West Sweden, in Skåne and in most of southern Sweden, is the delays in the infrastructure that the former government – that is, the bourgeois government – already saw before it. We must be able to resolve this. I think the absolute best thing is that we continue to work together within the framework of the Energy Agreement to solve the practical problems that exist in terms of the transmission of electricity, which we have very much in this country.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-262	Madam President, I would like Here and now there is a lack of power. You can have how much energy you want on certain days if it doesn't work on other days. This is very serious. Industry needs to grow; growth is needed. People are prepared to develop their businesses. They stand with their foot in the ground and cannot develop them. This is really serious. Does the Minister of Economic Affairs intend to act so that the absence of local reserve power will not hit the growth and business community in Skåne?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-265	Madam President, I would like I have not only the privilege of being Minister of Enterprise, but I have also been Minister of Energy for four and a half years and participated – together with the Moderates among others – in strengthening the Swedish energy system. This included developing a new regulatory framework to build pipelines, because it takes far too long in our country. This has meant that we now have a tenfold increase in investments in the networks. However, this is not enough, but we continue – and must continue – to work on so that the industry and households always have the electricity and the power they need when they need it.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-268	Madam President, I would like The day before yesterday, the National Security Survey was reported. It aims to investigate, among other things, people's vulnerability to crime and their experience of insecurity. In it we read that 6 per cent of the population says they have been subjected to sexual offences, which in itself is a decrease from 2017. It is most common among young women, where 34.4 per cent of the age group 20-24 says they have been subjected to sexual offences. This is totally unacceptable, and if I were not in this House, I would be expressing myself both differently and grosser. We can, of course, consider male norm and macho culture, but my question goes to Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg. It reads: How does the Minister ensure that these issues are taken seriously?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-272	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. The NTU shows – again – what gender differences we have in terms of crime and insecurity in Sweden. Women and men are exposed to various types of crime, for example, to a much greater extent than men to sexual crimes. Even night and night insecurity is much higher for women than for men; half of the young girls have at some time chosen another road or other means of transport in their residential area because they have felt insecure. It is crucial to people's sense of security that they feel the proximity of more locally present police officers. The Police Authority is now strengthening its work linked to sexual crimes and violence in close relations with 350 employees during the year to ensure that we have a stronger capacity to investigate and access these types of crimes. That is something we take very seriously.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-275	Madam President, I would like I say thank you there – I have received an answer to my question!
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-276	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. We have incredibly long permit processes in Sweden. One example that has been up in the days is the processing concession in Kallak. The same is a problem on the electricity side, with networks that can take ten to twelve years to build. We have industrial establishments that may never come about because it simply takes too long. This creates uncertainty, both for companies that want to invest, which have to spend money and planning, and for individuals. Their houses may need to be redeemed if the investment takes place, and in the meantime they cannot be sold because no one knows if you will be able to live there in just a few years. We also see that this goes much faster in comparable countries than in Sweden. The state processes are long and bureaucratic.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-281	The Center Party has proposed a green trail. We want halved permit times, and we want a target on that. What does the government do to cut the process times?
i-EUJYZHuxnRetXzrhePwB7W	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the question! I share the view that it takes far too long. Perhaps even worse is that in some sectors it is also very unpredictable. That is a problem, because we are all keen to balance the various interests that exist. All of us in this House realise that there are sometimes different interests that are contradictory. In addition, I am convinced that if we are to make a rapid transition – which is necessary – we cannot have processes, for example when it comes to building electricity lines, which take eight to ten years. Then what does the government do? We take it step by step. In the case of electricity lines, for example, we commissioned an investigator, Elisabet Falemo, to present a proposal on how we can guarantee legal certainty and at the same time make it more efficient. I believe that this work needs to be done in the area by area, so that we can ensure both that it is legally secure and predictable, and that we can speed up the transition.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-285	Madam President, I would like It is to be welcomed that the Minister for Economic Affairs agrees with the problem. Unfortunately, it does not only apply to the network parts, although some things have happened. The industry estimates that it can only give one to two years. One of the major problems is the attitude of the authorities. An authority is basically a service body for citizens and not a control body. There are things that the government could do, for example, in regulatory letters and other things. Are there any initiatives taken by the Minister or the Government, other than the online concession investigation? It is already on the table and will be completed quite soon.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-289	Madam President, I would like I sincerely hope so, Rickard Nordin, and preferably together. As a new Minister of Economic Affairs, I have just started a trip around the country to learn about the company's own experiences. What I get is that it is not always necessarily about the rules in themselves – as many entrepreneurs say, you understand why they exist – but about the application of them and the attitude of the authorities. We also know that there are differences between county boards and municipalities. I will continue to focus there and try to contribute to change.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-292	Madam President, I would like My question is to the Minister for Rural Affairs. Due to last year's severe drought, many forest owners have been hard hit by spruce bark. The damage is in some places enormous. Thousands of cubic metres of forest have been attacked, and great economic values have been destroyed. The Forest Board has highlighted this major concern and urged all forest owners to be careful to manage their forests. However, it does not seem to apply to state-owned forest land, such as Kraskögle nature reserve outside Hultsfred. There the affected forest has not been removed but may remain, with the result that the nature reserve has become like a power bench for the spruce bark drill. This affects forest owners who have land around the reserve difficult. My question is: Should not the state lead by example and follow the Swedish Forest Agency's advice to remove affected forests on the nature reserve and thus prevent the spread of spruce bark?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-296	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for a very urgent question! I think we are jointly concerned about the situation. I also think we both belong to those who were very happy that the summer did not get warmer than it got. We were prepared for a worse scenario than what we are seeing now, but with that said, the situation is bad enough. That is why the government provides money, for example in the budget bill. We also provided money already in our amending budget to have the means to deal with this problem and to be able to identify and work with information and other things. I can see that your specific question is very wide. And yes, of course, the state should always set an example. At the same time, we are talking here about nature reserves, which means that we also have other considerations to take into account. But the answer to your question is: Yes, we will go ahead by example.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-300	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I mentioned one example, Kraskögle nature reserve, but there are unfortunately many more examples around Sweden where the state does not take its responsibility when it comes to minimising the spread of spruce bark. It is a double standard that the state itself does not manage its forest but requires it from other forest owners. There are, of course, provisions in the Forest Protection Act on how to combat the spruce bark drill, so the question is how the state does to comply with the regulations.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-303	Madam President, I would like On the basis of my role, I want to be very clear that we expect both authorities and individual forest owners to do their utmost to ensure that they deal with possible outbreaks in such a way that they do not spread. You need to work with information and coordinated efforts to be effective when something happens. You will also need to work on how to handle timber levels linked to this.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-304	Madam President, I would like During the year, Kommunal's report showed that the problems of language confusion in the care of the elderly are great. The staff don't understand each other, and the user can't make himself understood. As early as 2007, senior health inspectors in the City of Stockholm said that a large proportion of those working in elderly care in Stockholm had so little knowledge of the Swedish language that they should not have been employed. This is by no means a new phenomenon.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-307	Madam President, I would like Although this is not my primary responsibility, I myself have met the same issue. It is incredibly important that the employer takes responsibility both at the time of employment and in cases where you are going into an educational activity, that you follow up the education with language requirements so that it becomes a good language development in not least elderly care. Otherwise, you can meet people who may not be able to understand the staff. This is an important issue that I know many employers around Sweden are working on. This will also be one of the major challenges in terms of managing staff supply in the coming few years, but in the coming decades, because staffing needs will be enormous in the care of the elderly over the next decade. Trade relations with China and respect for WTO rules
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-311	Madam President, I would like World trade is being challenged in a way that we have not seen in many, many decades. Formerly stable trading nations are now in conflict with each other, some are leaving established communities and world trade is actually decreasing in some respects. The Government has recently presented a strategy for how Sweden should have relations, and above all trade relations, with China. The strategy believes that it is important for the multilateral world trading system, that is, the WTO, to be modernised and China to respect this. But first, it is probably time for China to respect the WTO acquis, before it joins in reforming the same.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-314	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Rothenberg, for a highly topical and very important question. China, as Mr Rothenberg mentions, is an extremely important trading partner for Sweden. We have a need to find a balance between safeguards – I am thinking of our security – and a good trade relationship with China. I must point out here that the Chinese letter that has now been presented to Parliament is a very good platform for further work towards China. The conflicts and possible trade conflicts that we need to resolve with China will be regulated and regulated through the WTO. That is the attitude of the government, Sweden and also the EU. We will use the WTO as much as possible. But we must also look after our own interests, analyse and acquire knowledge of China.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-319	Madam President, I would like The forest is our national heirloom and offers recreation, berries, mushrooms, hunting, diversity and timber. It has a hundred different uses and, not least, a large export value. The forest, which so many people want to use, is highlighted as the salvation of the climate. We want to use it in the transition to sustainable and fossil-free products. Despite the fact that we have annual forest growth, many believe that the forest will not be enough for everything. There are also those who say that the forest and even the climate feel much better if the forest is uncultivated. There has been a polarised debate for a long time, and I know that Minister for Rural Development Jennie Nilsson has restarted the national forestry programme. I would like to hear what the Minister for Rural Development believes the national forestry programme can do to reduce the polarised forest debate that we have in Sweden.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-323	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak From, for a very important question! I would say that it is probably one of the most important things for me during this term of office to succeed in having a forward-looking and constructive debate on how we can safeguard all the great values of the forest. We as politicians will have the task of managing jobs and growth, biodiversity, climate and environment as the greats they are, and they must also take their place. I am absolutely convinced that it is possible to find forward-looking and constructive ways of dealing with these issues integrated if the will exists. But then we must have a good dialogue with all the actors involved. That is why I had the privilege of inviting and restarting the forestry programme yesterday and then initiating that debate. And I am positively surprised by the positive reaction I received from all the stakeholders, so I actually feel good hope.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-327	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Damberg. Over the last few days in the media, we have been able to learn that the Social Democrats are now intending to move the position of the health sector. I suppose we'll come back to that. What Minister Hallengren says in the same media reporting is that they have made sure to create an equivalence and short queues in the area of cancer. Then my question to Minister Damberg is: Is it the case that the government has access to any statistics other than the rest of us? The statistics available to the rest of us show that 27 out of 31 standardised health care courses do not pass the lead times and that cancer queues are growing. Is it not the case that the cancer queues are growing, contrary to what the Minister of Social Affairs says? This is a very big and serious problem that the government has not dealt with.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-329	Madam President, I would like Health care is a priority area for the government, as there are great needs. We know that many regions and county councils today have huge economic problems. That is why it is absolutely essential for the state to provide resources and for us to find a system of equalisation that allows those with high costs to receive support and help from others. It is incredibly important that this system lasts. Standardised care chains obviously have an effect. They cut lines and make sure to focus on the right things. You have the patient in the center. The government, together with SKL, has started a work where you work with this systematically and support it. Like the Minister for Social Affairs, I am absolutely convinced that it will have an effect to work systematically with short queues in this way.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-331	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister of Home Affairs Mikael Damberg. Since 2009, a number of authorities have been working together against organised crime under the authority of the Police Authority. The Swedish National Audit Office has informed the joint work of the authorities against organised crime in an up-to-date report. The analysis shows that the cooperation produces a good result but also points to the need for measures regarding government governance and follow-up in order to further streamline the work. Madam President, I would like I have read the Government's response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report. My interpretation is that the government does not follow the proposals for changes proposed by the Swedish National Audit Office. The Christian Democrats believe that cooperation needs to be further strengthened through clear governance and follow-up. We want each authority involved in the collaboration to have a clear mandate in the regulation letter to prioritise the work.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-335	Madam President, I would like This is one of the most important efforts we make against serious organised crime in Sweden. If you not only use the political authority's resources but use the state's full arm with different authorities, such as Försäkringskassan, Skatteverket and Arbetsförmedlingen, you can access criminal groups from different directions. I've met the heads of government of the various authorities. They are very clear that they see this as a priority work. They want to work this way and think that the work is constantly evolving. But we also say in the letter that the government can come back with further steering of operations if necessary. Part of the gang program that the government has presented is about exploiting the GOB even more. We will be clearer in the governance and look at whether more pilot projects can be carried out to further advance the business. This is an area to which we will come back. But my picture, which I have received from the Directors-General, is that this is being taken very seriously and that the Police Authority sees a development that is moving in a positive direction.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-340	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. At the UN climate summit in New York, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven presented the work on the Industrial Track. It is an important work to manage the industry's transition to fossil freedom. Through the green transition, we can face the climate threat and at the same time create new green jobs. The minister has, like me, visited the chemistry cluster in Stenungsund. It is with 2,500 employees Sweden's largest chemistry cluster. The goal is sustainable chemistry, and the vision is to be a hub for the production of sustainable products based on renewable and recycled raw materials. My question is: How does the Minister view the chemical industry's work on green change, and how can we from the parliament and government support the work of finding new ground-breaking technologies?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-344	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Burwick for this important issue. Industry today accounts for one third of our emissions. For the government, it is important that we find a way forward that means that we get rid of emissions and at the same time develop our industry. I recently had the privilege of meeting the board of the Swedish chemical industry and discussing these issues. New innovations are now emerging. We will work together to ensure that they also come out to companies in society. One example is an activity that I recently took part in opening, including in this case in West Sweden, in Vänersborg, and which concerns a new way of dealing with the solvents of polluters in a circular economy. It provides good new jobs in Vänersborg, and it gives completely different values and carbon dioxide emissions. This has been achieved through cooperation between Almi and private traders in this case. This is exactly how I want us to continue working, so that Sweden is far ahead and so that we can claim both jobs and growth but also conversion.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-349	Madam President, I would like Sweden has increasing electricity problems, especially in Stockholm, West Sweden and Skåne. In southern Sweden, Madam President, there are companies that have been slowed down or refused to invest and grow as they wish. This has happened in Malmö, Båstad, Staffanstorp, Trelleborg, Sjöbo, Ystad and a number of other locations. The government has introduced a tax on local electricity production from cogeneration. This has now knocked out electricity generation in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. Experts agree that the fastest way to secure electricity supply in Skåne, for example, would be to remove these taxes in order to provide the opportunity to continue power generation. Is the government prepared to admit its mistake and remove this tax on local electricity production in order to secure production for important industries and other companies in, among others, southern Sweden?
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-352	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered is a very knowledgeable person when it comes to the electrical system. He well knows that our lack of power is basically a lack of heat for a week or so in winter. We do not really have a shortage of electricity, because we have large surpluses. Now we have ended up in this unfortunate situation for a very simple reason: that for far too long no new power lines were built in Sweden. This has meant that we have power shortages at certain times of the year, even though we have quite a lot of electricity. There are no shortcuts around this. We must speed up the construction of electricity lines so that we can ensure that the very fine electricity produced in the country comes to both companies and households just when they need it. It is important both to simplify the regulations and to ensure that they are built, and that is exactly what the government is working on.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-356	Madam President, I would like I have a question for our new Foreign Trade Minister, Anna Hallberg. I would like to begin by congratulating her on her new role and wish her luck. There's been a long divorce and a lot of fighting. The division of property takes place before an open curtain. Sweden is a relatively small and highly export-dependent open economy with large, modern and successful industry. It's about Brexit, dear Minister of Foreign Trade. What parts of the Swedish export industry do the Minister for Foreign Trade see special risks in? What clear and good examples of successful companies does she see out there? As a resident in Stockholm County, I would like to link this to a report produced by the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce on the consequences of Brexit. This would affect 2,100 jobs in Stockholm.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-358	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good and very topical question. October 31st approaches by leaps and bounds. We still hope that there will not be a non-contractual Brexit. I will answer the question as to which sectors are most affected. We have asked the National Board of Trade to look at this and analyse who we think would be the hardest hit right now. These are sectors such as mineral fuels, the automotive industry, business services and intellectual property. If we are going to talk about the Stockholm region at this short moment, one can still imagine that business services are a sector in which the Stockholm region can be relatively severely affected. We have still not really seen the consequences of the decline in trade with the United Kingdom. We urge all companies throughout Sweden, regardless of region, to monitor it carefully and to go into the Swedish Customs and National Board of Trade's homeside or. There's all the information. We really want to encourage companies to take all the measures. Now Brexit is approaching, whether it is now or in three months.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-361	Madam President, I would like As my colleague Hans Wallmark said earlier, I have been struck by the news that Denmark wants to introduce a safety package. There you should have cross-border reviews one to several times a week of both rail and ferry traffic because it is believed that crime has increased so much in Sweden. The Danish Minister for Justice says that he does not know how much crime has increased in Sweden but that he intends to investigate it. He intends to investigate how difficult it is in Sweden. He also wants to conduct an investigation into the criminality that exists in the Öresund region. Denmark therefore wants to launch an inquiry into Öresund. My question to Minister of Home Affairs Mikael Damberg is now why the Socialist Government should investigate what the Swedish Government should have investigated about the crime in Sweden, if you now believe it has increased as much as Denmark believes it has.
i-3836c029cf7ba80d-364	Madam President, I would like Today, I have welcomed the fact that Denmark is taking further measures to combat crime in the region. It also affects Sweden what is happening in Denmark. We have seen two serious events in Copenhagen that have been linked to Sweden. Then the Danish Government has chosen to act. I think that's wise. In the same way, we see that in the two cases the Swedish police have assisted the Danish police and contributed to the arrest of several people in the cases. We have a very good cooperation. I see that this cooperation will be able to deepen in the near future. For Denmark, it will be important to develop its camera surveillance work, just as we do on the Swedish side. We are expanding our police presence and strength throughout Sweden with 10,000 more police employees. We're giving the police new tools. For many years now, we have had border controls with Denmark. If Denmark then wants border control against Sweden, I believe that our Swedish and Danish police officers will benefit from the information they obtain on each page.
