i-1170d48021bb27fe-12	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson has asked Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson what measures he is prepared to take in the near future to deal with the increased amount of explosives in Sweden. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The violence practised by gang criminals is a threat to people's security, to the sense of security in society and, ultimately, to the rule of law and democracy. Meeting this threat is one of the core tasks of the state and is one of the government's top priorities. The government has recently presented the biggest package against gang crime ever in Sweden. The package includes a number of new tools for law enforcement authorities, tougher penalties and better crime prevention. Just over a week ago, the government decided on a Council of Law referral on secret data reading that gives the police a very sharp weapon against serious crime. Another tool in the fight against gang crime is the new rules on data storage in law enforcement that came into force on 1 October 2019. The government has also proposed that the police from the turn of the year should be given the opportunity to set up cameras on streets and squares without having to apply for permission from the Swedish Data Protection Authority. This is a change that both the police and the municipalities are looking forward to. The government has also implemented two different amnesties in 2018 to reduce the number of illegal weapons and explosives in society. In addition, we have doubled the minimum penalties for serious weapons offences and serious violations of the authorisation requirement for explosives. We are already seeing a great impact from the strengthened arms legislation: five times more people arrested for serious weapons offences and more than 1 000 firearms seized last year. There's more than 20 guns a week. In July this year, the Council's weapons investigators made proposals which will make it even more difficult for criminals to access arms and explosives and which will sharpen society's response to those who already have them illegally. For example, more weapons offences and offences against the authorisation requirement for explosives will be assessed as serious or particularly serious and the maximum punishment for the most serious offences will be increased. The proposals have been referred, and the Government's intention is to proceed with a legislative referral this spring. It must also become more difficult to build illegal explosives. The Council has recently referred a memorandum on supplementary provisions to the EU regulation on explosives precursors. The new EU regulation makes it considerably more difficult across the EU to obtain chemicals from which explosives can be built. Most important of all, however, are the historically large investments that are now being made on the Swedish police. The Government's objective is to increase the number of police employees by 10 000 to 2024. From the start of growth on 1 January 2016 to September 2019, the number has increased by just over 3,000. This is a gratifying development that will eventually make a big difference for a stronger society and a safer Sweden. It will require determination to reverse a development that has been allowed to grow for a long time. The government takes very seriously the blasts and shootings that have taken place, and we are determined to gather together to do what is necessary to reverse developments.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-21	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. When I wrote and handed in this interpellation, a bomb had just exploded outside a residential building in Rannebergen in Gothenburg. It was 2:04 a.m. the night of September 22, and the explosion destroyed a bicycle house, a water main ran leak, shrapnel and blast damaged the building's facade and windows were broken. It was a good thing that no man was injured in the powerful explosion. Inside the house live ordinary Gothenburgers who this night lay asleep, sat and watched TV or read a book. It was innocent people who suddenly got the violence literally into the corner of the house. Even then, Madam President, the blast was not unique for this year. On 7 June this year there was a marked explosion in Linköping with enormous material damage, and in mid-September an innocent woman was injured in an explosion in Lund. After the explosion in Lund, the Malmö police went out to the Swedish Radio and urged the public to increase vigilance, especially during late evenings and nights, and to report suspicious bags or packages. Now the response to the interpellation has been delayed for over a month, and through an irony of fate the past weekend was marked by a series of bombings around Sweden. On the night of Thursday two detonations were reported at short intervals in Helsingborg, and they were followed by reports of an explosion in Växjö, of three explosions in Malmö and two suspect objects and of a car bomb in Landvetter outside Gothenburg. Just like in the Ranne Mountains, one of the bombs in Malmö exploded outside a residential building with damage to the facade and crushed windows. In Landvetter the explosion was so severe that a car was thrown up on the roof of the blast. In a noted article in Sunday's Dagens Nyheter, criminologist Amir Rostami notes that the bombings are unprecedented in Europe, and he says: ..................................................... In the list of further measures against gang crime presented by the government, it is written that increased penalties for crimes related to criminal settlements and for explosives offences can only be considered for legislative decisions in spring 2020. Madam President, I would like Strengthening the penalties is good and important. We Moderates have been doing that for a long time. The question, however, is what steps the Government is prepared to take in the near future to address the problems rather than simply putting the matter into investigations. What is the answer to the residents in Linköping, Lund, Helsingborg, Växjö, Malmö, Landvetter and Rannebergen in Gothenburg to literally get the bombs off our streets?
i-1170d48021bb27fe-29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Sweden is in an exceptional position. It's detonation after detonation. It has become everyday life and the norm in some parts of Sweden that we both love and live in. I do not doubt that Minister Damberg wants to stop this, but the question is whether the government has the ability. Apparently not. According to Brå, about 187 explosions have taken place only this year. That's 187 explosions too much. They are linked to the gang crime and the shootings we can see, and the development in Sweden is such that we have to look back. What are the reasons for this? Migration and integration policies have fallen completely. That is the responsibility of many people. We have a situation where men with foreign background shoot men with foreign background to death. The explosions and the bombings are a new step in pushing the borders. Explosives have started to scare each other, and families with children are risking their lives. It's no longer a gang settlement in a garage at 3:00 in the morning, as we could read about in the '90s. It was soundproofed, and the first person in the morning discovered it. Now it happens in the middle of the day, in the middle of the evening, and large parts of central streets in Malmö are blocked off. My question to the Minister for Home Affairs is: does the government have the ability to put an end to this? Does the government have the will to put an end to this? What does the government intend to do in the emergency situation we are in now? This is in no way a question of punitive or enforcement measures. The question is what you can do here and now and what you want to do, what you intend to do, to ensure that these criminal forces are locked in so that ordinary people can once again feel security when they walk in our streets and squares.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-35	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the honourable Member for an important interpellation, even if the answer was delayed. This is not a question we take lightly. I believe that the whole of this House can end up behind the interpellier's serious words. Mr Arin's analysis, too, that this should not be a new normal image in Sweden, I think there is broad agreement in this House. That's why we're working extensively on the issue. My absolute answer to the question of whether this can be stopped is yes. It has been shown in other times that when gang criminals act outwardly towards each other in public environments, it is possible with the full power of society to fight back this. But when the police for a long time have not had the power and number needed to control certain areas and follow individuals who can be dangerous or can be drawn into these environments, this has been able to grow. That is why we are now making the greatest effort on the Police Authority in modern political history. We are going to go from a little under 30 000 police workers to a little less than 40 000 police workers, i.e. an increase of 10 000 employees, up to 2024. This is an unprecedented increase. Only yesterday 515 police aspirants were employed throughout Sweden, now based on the ability of the police to gather further and do what is necessary to stop this. But the police also need new tools. That's why I'm telling you a little bit about the things we've done anyway. One of those things, which we are now waiting for, is the important date on 1 January. Then the police themselves, without the permission of the Swedish Data Protection Authority, will decide when and where to set up cameras. Cameras have proved to be a very effective tool for access to and prosecution of those involved in criminal activities. It also has a deterrent effect when we have cameras in place. Another thing is the legislation we have presented on secret data reading, which a few years ago was very controversial. We did not proceed with the investigation that discussed whether to give law enforcement authorities a mandate to break into mobile phones and read encrypted information. The Malmö police say that all planned murders in recent years have been preceded by communications via encrypted services, so giving the police these powers and mandates is absolutely necessary to hit the gangs. When we hit the drugs and the weapons and seize so many weapons, it also means that people end up in jail and in prison. They do not come out for two years, so it is also a tightening up of the legislation that has an effect on the criminal gangs. But we have not yet got there where we see a turnaround in the blasts. There, all the players must gather together. That is why I welcome the fact that, in addition to doubling the minimum penalty, we have had amnesty on explosives and have given the police new opportunities to work with cameras, we are now gathering together with further stricter legislation. But it is the police that are running the operational operations, and I have full confidence that the police are giving priority to this. I have noted that the police will have a press conference tomorrow morning about the situation in Sweden. I am absolutely sure that they will tell us that they take this as seriously as possible and do what is necessary to maintain both security and security in Sweden.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-43	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Government returns in its response to what he describes as the biggest package against gang crime ever in Sweden. I think the points in the package are good – if they were actually concrete points and decisions that could be implemented here and now. Let me illustrate by an example, Madam President. About a month ago, the Government and I had an interpellation debate on the announced investigation into changing rules for security officers to be set up. This is paragraph 6 of the 34-point list drawn up by the government. Order guards will never be able to replace the police but are complementary to the police. With a changed regulatory framework, changing education and changing powers, they become not only a complement but a proper relief for the police. The police can then spend time and resources on being out on the street working both crime prevention and to curb organized crime. Madam President, I would like The Government Mikael Damberg has several times, only in March this year and then when the government presented its measures against the gang problem, said that it should set up an investigation to review the legislation. This spring, the investigation was due to take place after the summer. It was then due to be set up in the autumn, and when we had the interpellation debate in October, it was due to be set up shortly. But the investigation has not yet been set up. I believe that the Council of State and I have slightly different definitions of what, Madam President, is short-term. The Minister for Home Affairs presented his 34-point list against gang crime on 21 September this year but has so far only implemented one decision on that list, the one on clandestine data interception. That is why my supplementary question is: when does the Government believe that other decisions will come? Is it perhaps, as has been said, in the near future?
i-1170d48021bb27fe-49	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg, for your answer. I thank you for your answer, although I am not satisfied with it. That's not enough. The government has been in power; the Social Democrats, together with the Green Party, have been in power for the last five years. In Sweden we always point fingers and say that you did this in 2006 or 2014. I do not want to enter into such a discussion. This is about me being in opposition and the Social Democrats in government, Madam President, and the one in government is the one who bears the ultimate responsibility. What the government lacks is rather crisis insight. Every penny wasted on family week or free year shows that citizens' safety is not taken seriously. It's no longer a gang shooting or a gang murder, but it's bombings and bombings against multi-family houses in the middle of downtown town. When citizens do not feel safe, when citizens begin to be taken hostage by the fear of losing their lives, then confidence in us politicians and the rule of law and democracy that served Sweden well. My question is once again: what does the Minister of the Interior intend to come to the Swedish Parliament that we can take a position on here and now? When it comes to more cops, I say yes to more cops. A good friend of mine is one of the 515 people who were hired yesterday and who today proudly wear their police uniform and want to make Sweden a safer and safer country. But what does the Minister of the Interior intend to come to this House with so that we can take further steps to put an end to the spiral of violence that has taken Sweden hostage?
i-1170d48021bb27fe-54	Madam President, I would like We should not get into the discussion about what was done earlier or not – I think it is rather dazed and derogatory to those who listen to the debate. But when we talk about police officers, as we know, the most important tool we have against the gang criminals, we know it takes two and a half years to train a police officer. For a number of years very few people joined police training, and we are still suffering from that. Now we have got the volumes up, and we will continue to increase the volumes to get new powerful resources out in streets and squares. It is important to be persistent and able to prioritise this, and so does the government. We do not choose, for example, to introduce new job tax deductions, i.e. tax reductions for those who are already well off. We choose to invest 2 1⁄2 billion more on the police next year in order for it to continue with its plant power. You've already hired about 3,000 people and you're gonna hire more people to grow. But that is not enough; other measures will also be required. However, the package of measures constituting the gang crime list consisted mainly of new proposals, which had to be developed and investigated. This takes longer. This is about police resources here and now. The measures we have already taken, such as camera surveillance and secret data reading, are the actions that will have an effect in the short term. Then I think that, for example, we need to change the rules for security guards. But I do not believe that security guards solve the problem of explosions in Sweden. In order to tackle criminal gangs, powerful police powers and a strong police force are needed, but also some stiffer penalties that allow the police to use secret data readings and further efforts that are highly integrity-implementing. What happens in the short term is that the police are growing and that the Customs Agency is given new powers. The agency is now growing with over 100 employees to be able to tighten control at Sweden's borders when it comes to drugs and weapons, among other things. This is a necessary effort to limit the shootings and blasts. We will continue to work unabatedly. We have taken this seriously, and I say it again: if further efforts are needed, we will make further efforts. But we have presented the biggest action programme against gang crime ever in modern times, and we will implement it. It will give the police further impetus in this work.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-60	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. Of course, security guards will not only solve this – it is also not the task of security guards to solve the problem of explosives. But, Madam President, just as the Council of State is concerned, it is about giving the police the opportunity to work on these issues, and then security guards are one way. Another way could be to reinstate retired police officers. But what I was trying to illustrate with this example is precisely that it is one thing to say that you should set up an investigation or carry out a proposal but another thing to actually do it. That is the problem in this debate, Madam President: the government is saying that it should do a lot of things shortly, but then there is still not much going on. That is the big problem, and that is also why I have asked the question of what to do here and now, in the near future – not in long-term packages. I believe, Madam President, that those who had their cars destroyed by the bomb in Landvetter, those who had their house destroyed in Malmö this weekend, the residents in Rannebergen and Linköping and those affected in Helsingborg, Växjö and Lund deserve us politicians to tackle these problems here and now. I must thank the Government for its answer in this interpellation debate. I appreciate his authentic willingness to deal with the problems, but I very much hope that we move from words to actions in this. Because this is a situation that affects individuals very hard. Thank you, Minister, for the debate.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-65	Madam President, I would like Thank you, David Josefsson, for an important interpellation! The issue of explosions and shootings in Sweden unites us. We are going to stop this, and we are going to do whatever it takes to reverse this development. We have begun some efforts. We have done a lot in this area – it is about increased penalties, new powers and difficult opportunities to get hold of chemicals and other things, which are now coming in the next step. We are therefore doing a great deal, but more will be needed. I very much welcome the fact that in those areas where we can find broad deals in the Swedish Parliament and agree on new developments. For example, I perceive that new, modern rules for security officers are needed, both to ensure that security officers have a good profession, a good development and a stable education for the tasks they are to perform and to provide the opportunity to relieve the police. This is therefore an important issue for me, and I believe that it is also important for David Josefsson. But much more will be needed. The biggest effort, however, is to pursue the effort on the police. It is the one that makes a difference through greater presence and more tools to access the criminal gangs. I will continue to work for this because it is possible to reverse this trend. The state and society are always stronger than criminal gangs. When we use the strength in the overall Sweden we hit down on these gangs, and we will do that.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-69	Madam President, I would like Mr Ludvig Aspling has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration how the Minister ensures that the principles of the rule of law are upheld in the activities of the Prosecutor's Office. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Prosecution Authority has a prominent role in the rule of law and it is therefore very important that confidence in the agency is maintained. The activities of the prosecutor's office, like those of other authorities, are governed by laws and regulations. A basic principle of government – the constitution that forms the basis of our democracy – is that authorities should take into account the equality of everyone before the law and observe objectivity and impartiality in their activities. Consequently, objectivity and impartiality are fundamental principles of the public administration and thus also of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In line with this, the Prosecutor General shall promote lawfulness, consistency and consistency in the prosecutions' enforcement. For all prosecutors, the prosecutor's ethical guidelines also apply. It is clear from these that the activities in all parts must be characterised by objectivity and objectivity and that prosecutors must not take into account irrelevant circumstances or objectives. It is also clear that a prosecutor outside his professional activities should behave in such a way that he or she is not in danger of harming confidence in the individual official or prosecutor. I can therefore see that the legal framework of the prosecutors meets very high demands for the rule of law, and I have great confidence that the Prosecutor's Office will be able to enforce them.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-73	Madam President, I would like As a member of the EU Council, it cannot be missed that the issue of the rule of law in other Member States is at the heart of this government. This is something on which we basically agree. The Peer-to-peer mechanism for examining the rule of law within the Union and, for example, the link between the fight against corruption and the allocation of EU funds is something we can imagine, as long as the mechanism is established objectively. What makes me a little perplexing about this government's fight for the rule of law is that it seems to be valid in all EU countries except one, namely our own. Of course, the independence of the judiciary is a fundamental prerequisite for the rule of law, which means that prosecutors and courts should act on the basis of legal sources and instructions and leave personal or political positions alongside. Not all prosecutor's chambers seem to succeed in this. At a meeting in Varberg City Council on 19 September this year, a left-wing leisure politician identified himself as a prosecutor and continued to express criminal suspicions against his political opponents and threaten them with prison. She then explained that she would consistently close all complaints in a particular category of cases and prosecute all reporters for false indication. She then threatened them with imprisonment, not for legal reasons, but only because of her own preference. Last but not least, she also pointed out my party, the Swedish Democrats, as a special target for her prosecutor's chamber. Madam President, I would like Had this happened in Poland or Hungary, it would have been mentioned in particular in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' review reports on the principles of the rule of law. The ministers' Twitter accounts had gone hot, and one or other ambassador might have been called up to meet a minister. But now this is happening in Sweden, and then the government is silent. The Chief Prosecutor of the relevant Public Prosecutor's office has not acted. The Prosecution Authority's supervisory department has not acted. The worst violation I have ever seen in the Swedish judiciary seems to pass this government completely unnoticed. When prosecutors publicly point out their political opponents as targets for prosecution, they have crossed a border. That border is not just about trust in the Prosecutor's Office as such, but about something much more fundamental. I have family and friends who are both Social Democrats and Left Partyists. Even if we disagree politically, I want us to be able to live in a country together. I am not 100% sure that this government, on the basis of how it has acted in this case, is prepared to make me the same courtesy. I find it sad that the Council of State is ignoring this story, which is very gross, and it also reveals that there is some hypocrisy in the talk about the principles of the rule of law, which this government often highlights.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-81	Let me remind you that ministers are not allowed to comment on the judicial system or to engage in individual cases. It is, of course, important that we in this House, too, ensure that we have a debate with those who are present and not with those who are absent and have no place in the debate here.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-82	Madam President, I would like That was an important point made by the President. As a minister, I cannot speak on individual matters. That would be inappropriate, and it would also risk damaging confidence in the rule of law. Here I see that I and the interpellant have different opinions, and that is a bit strange. I thought that I devoted my entire interpellational response to describing the principles on which the Swedish rule of law is based and the principles and laws governing the prosecution's activities. If an individual prosecutor in his position or otherwise has done something wrong, it is a matter for the Public Prosecutor's Office and not for the Swedish Government. When it comes to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary as a whole, the rule of law is based on politicians not to control how individual prosecutors act or make decisions. In itself, forcing me to discuss and evaluate what individual prosecutors are doing around Sweden undermines the principles of the rule of law. It's serious, because I don't want to get involved in this. I expect the Attorney General to take responsibility for his authority. If you feel that something has gone wrong and that something has to be examined, i.e. if you are being mistreated by an authority or by an official, it is the JO or JK who will review it. It's not the government that you should turn to. And if you've been exposed to something criminal, you should file a police report. That's how it's done in a legal society. That is why I am so formal in my answer. My answer was entirely based on the fact that all people are equal before the law and that everyone should be treated in exactly the same way. That was my point of departure. However, we are beginning to talk about hypocrisy when we are referring to the fact that I do not want to go into individual cases and evaluate what individual prosecutors do or do not do, we are on a dangerous path. The Swedish Government will then have views on the actions of individual prosecutors around Sweden. I think that's a dangerous way to go. I believe that this would undermine the principles of the rule of law. This is why Sweden has strong laws and rules that regulate how such things should be done.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-88	Madam President, I would like I would also like to stress that I fully agree with the comments made earlier by the President-in-Office. I will also say that I was very doubtful whether I should raise this at all to an interpellation debate in Parliament. Because I totally agree that we should not have to lift this kind of business here. Nor is it an individual matter that I invite the Government to discuss, but it is what the government at an overall level can do to ensure that this type of thing does not happen again. There are also different ways to design interpellation responses. I understand, of course, that one cannot go into the individual case and make statements, and I fully agree that neither should it, but it is possible to formulate interpellation responses in a way that makes it clear that the government understands how gross this story is and how serious it is when prosecutors feel that they have the freedom to act in this way. As the Government states, there is a regulatory framework, but the issue here does not apply to the regulatory framework, but what happens when the regulatory framework is not complied with. As the Government points out, responsibility in this case lies with the Public Prosecutor's Office's supervisory department, but that department has not acted. It has done nothing in this case, and that means that it is flawed somewhere in the chain. What makes me so sad about this particular matter is that this person feels safe in front of a television camera about being able to violate virtually all the rules to which the Government refers. You don't do that if you don't know you have your boss or maybe even your government in your back. If you doubt that you can do this, you do not stand in front of a television camera and say such things. It's obvious. This is what makes it either that the overall regulatory framework to which the Government refers in the answer does not work or that the person responsible for demanding responsibility does not do his job. So that is not enough. I hope the Prime Minister can take this story with him. I do not know how it works on the inside, but it would be appropriate to have some kind of conversation between the individuals concerned, so that this does not happen again. It really made me really sad when I saw this. I have spent many years in law school, and there are a lot of people there who talk about the judiciary, the principles that we are going to uphold and how Sweden is a pioneer country for other countries. We may be in many ways, but in this case it has broken. I really want someone to do something to fix this.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-95	Madam President, I would like I am the first to emphasise that although we have laws and regulations in Sweden, the laws may be broken. Individual officials or officials can make mistakes, even breaking the law. It could happen. What I was trying to say in the interpellation response and the reason it was pretty dry is that I shouldn't go in and judge in this. Then it will be a bit like the interpellier said, that the prosecutor saw it as having his government in his back. The prosecutor has no government in his back. But the prosecutor has the law in his back and will be tried on the basis of the laws and regulations that apply in Sweden, nothing else – not on behalf of any government, either the present or any future government. The authorities have a responsibility for compliance with the acquis. I am careful to emphasise this in this interpellation debate. If you feel as an individual that this has not happened, you can turn to JO or JK to see if they want to examine the question if the authority has broken the regulations. If you think it has been so serious that there has been a breach of the law, you should be happy to file a police report. That is how it is to be done in a state governed by the rule of law. Had it been an interpellation debate that was about the regulatory framework being wrong and one of the principles being flawed, we would have been able to have a discussion on it, and I would have felt responsible for changing the regulatory framework in that case. I think the regulations are clear. I think it is important that Sweden has a robust system. But I cannot say whether the rules are always respected. If it is not followed, the authority has a responsibility and ultimately JO and JK, but one should also file a police report. I hope that people who feel wrongly judged or affected by authorities will exercise their right in the system to report it, because then it will have to be tested as it should instead of taking place in an interpellation debate in which I, as a representative of the government, will say whether or not it has gone right. I'd be happy to leave that to other law enforcement agencies.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-99	I remind you of my initial reminder.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-100	Madam President, I would like Referring to JO and JK when the Prosecution Authority's own supervisory department has dismissed it does not really make sense. After all, the supervisory department has powerful tools to put in place when a prosecutor commits a misconduct or does something that is very bad. JO and JK can send an angry letter-- or JO can at least do it-- but it won't lead to anything in practice. I realise that we have a little different views here about where the limit is for what one should discuss in the speaker's chair. However, I would like to emphasise that I agree with the difficulties that exist with regard to this type of case. I was, as I said, not quite sure if I would bring this up at all, but I felt it was so urgent that I really wanted someone who is highly responsible to hear what had happened.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-102	As I said, individual cases are not handled by the Government in interpellation debates.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-103	Madam President, I would like I would just like to conclude by stating that the Prosecution Authority has a very prominent role in our rule of law and that it is important that confidence in the authority is maintained. I would also like to make it clear that the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office are governed by laws and rules, and a basic principle of government – the constitution that forms the basis of our democracy – is that authorities should take into account the equality of everyone in their activities before the law and observe both objectivity and impartiality. I expect the authorities to comply with the laws and regulations that apply in Sweden. And if you feel as an individual mistreated by an authority or even subjected to something criminal, I hope that you follow the procedures that exist and turn to, for example, JO and JK or make a police report, because that is how we can maintain today's strong Swedish system of legal certainty that I would like to keep.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-105	Madam President, I would like Sara Gille has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to stop forced marriages and arranged marriages. She has also asked me what I and the government intend to do to protect women who are victims of violence and oppression in the name of honour. Honour-related violence and repression are contrary to fundamental values, and it is of the utmost importance that Sweden strengthens protection against honour-related violence and repression. Since 2014, there has been a special penalty for forced marriage. The provision means that it is punishable by unlawful coercion or exploitation of a vulnerable situation to induce a person to enter into a marriage or a marriagelike relationship. There is also a special penalty for misleading the journey of forced marriage. The Government decided in March 2017 to commission a special investigator to investigate whether there is a need for further measures to ensure strong protection against, among other things, child marriages and forced marriages. In the final report of the investigation Increased protection against honour-related crime proposes the introduction of a special penal provision on child marriage. Among other things, the proposed provision on child marriage does not require unlawful coercion or exploitation of a vulnerable situation in order for there to be a crime. Whether or not the child agrees is irrelevant. It is also proposed that the provision should cover not only the person who induces a child to marry but also the person who allows a child to enter into a marriage or a marriagelike relationship. In that part, the proposal aims at the child's guardian or someone who has taken the place of the guardian. The report also proposes the introduction of an exit ban for children who are at risk of being taken abroad for marriage or genital mutilation. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the exit ban, it is proposed to increase the possibility of deciding on obstacles to the issuing of passports and the withdrawal of passports. The report is prepared in the Government Office, and the Government's ambition is to decide on a bill early next year. In 2016, the Prosecution Authority was commissioned by the Government to examine all cases reported regarding forced marriage and misleading forced marriage. In connection with the government mission, the agency developed methodological support for prosecutors in these cases. At the end of 2017, the Police Authority established a national competence network against honour-related crimes. They are also working to develop updated methodological support for police work against honour-related crimes. For some years now, it is no longer possible for a person under 18 to enter into a legally valid marriage in Sweden. Furthermore, since 1 January 2019, further strengthened rules for the recognition of foreign children's marriages have been in force. Then we introduced a new general rule that means that no foreign children's marriage should be recognised in Sweden. Exemptions shall never be possible if one of the parties is still under 18 years of age during the examination. With regard to the protection of women who are victims of violence and oppression in the name of honour, it should be pointed out that the report also proposes the introduction of a special penalty for crimes of honour. The basis for the penalty is that when assessing the penalty value, it should be considered aggravating if a motive for the crime has been honorary. In addition, in July 2019, the Government has commissioned a special investigator to analyse and consider, among other things, whether a specific criminal penalty should be introduced, with his own criminal code, which specifically aims at honour-related violence and repression. The assignment shall be presented by 30 September 2020. In addition, the government has decided to strengthen state grants to the non-profit women's and girls' shelters. Women's and girls' shelters working with a special focus on honor-related violence and oppression can benefit from the grants. Linköping University, Barnafrid – National Knowledge Centre, has the Government's mission to carry out educational efforts for the country's child housing activities on honor-related violence and oppression and its various forms of expression child marriage, forced marriages and genital mutilation. The National Centre for Women's Peace at Uppsala University has also been tasked with strengthening and developing activities with the national support phone for victims of violence. The mission has a special focus on women and girls who are exposed to honour-related violence and oppression. The work against honour-related violence and repression will remain a high priority of the government.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-119	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Morgan Johansson for her reply. I agree with what Morgan Johansson says about honour-related violence and oppression being contrary to fundamental values and that it is extremely important for Sweden to combat these problems. But despite the fact that honor-related crimes are not new in Sweden, we have not yet overcome the problems, and as time passes, more and more people are affected. It is contradictory for the government to say that it is important when, at the same time, laws are introduced with very low penalties. Although the government is now saying that there should be a penalty for honour-related crimes, it is still relatively low penalties. It should be at least three years in prison for forced marriage. Today, the maximum sentence is four years, which in practice means that the perpetrator may be after a few months. To then put an investigation so that you can get a bill after the election is remarkable. This should be given more priority and much quicker treatment than is currently being done. Sweden is a modern country, and here there should not even be honor-related crimes, arranged marriages and more. Despite this, we can read about the person who is affected. Recently, a Kurdish woman near Gothenburg was murdered by her Kurdish husband in the name of honour – a woman who sought help from society. Nevertheless, society had failed her. The government has betrayed another person in great need. Madam President, I would like These medieval customs do not belong in today's Sweden. Each individual should decide what he or she wants to do with his or her life. Despite this, honour repression and violence occur in Sweden. We believe that one should safeguard the right of all people to choose who one wants to love and who one wants to marry. Unfortunately, many young people are at risk of being taken abroad to be married away. A lot of girls aren't even allowed to talk to a classmate just because he's a boy. Swedish society betrays these women and children who are stuck in a hard-controlled life, where their own identity is pushed down to become so small that they depend on family and family at a completely different level than children who grow up in Swedish families. All children should be allowed to be children and grow up in a loving and secure family with a community around them that supports and is there. Instead, their lives look completely different. It is a life in which they are controlled and governed to the extreme, usually by several members of the family and the family who together contribute to oppression.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-128	Madam President, I would like I believe that there can be no doubt that the issue of combating violence of honour and repression is one of the most important priorities of the government. It is a very important part of the January agreement that the Social Democrats are now ruling on with the Green Party, the Centre Party and the Liberals. When it comes to the children and young people who suffer from honorary oppression, let me say the following: It doesn't matter where you come from or what ethnic background you have– you have the same right as everyone else to shape your own future and to choose who you love and who you're going to marry. For example, the person who oppresses you and tries to force you to marry someone you do not want to marry or take you abroad to marry off against your will commits a crime, for whom there is a punishment. This applies even if it happens to be your father, your mother, or any other relative: That person commits a crime. I think it is important to send clear signals to all children and young people that these are the rules that apply in Sweden, and there are penalties for those who violate these rules. This is really nothing new. There are those who want to make it that this is all about a Muslim or an extra-European context. It's historyless. Yes, it is true that it is common today, for example, in the Middle East or in Africa. But forced marriages, children's marriages and children's relations have also been in a Christian context and in Europe for a very long time before. It is enough to go to the history of the European royal houses to see that it is full of such forced marriages and child relations. How old was Karin Månsdotter when she was taken to the castle in the 16th century by Erik XIV? She was about 14 years old. It is therefore enough to go to European history to find corresponding abuses and situations there, and it is important to bear in mind. Madam President, I would like This was based on an old conservative view of children who claimed that children were some sort of appendage to the family that could be used to achieve certain goals that the family might have, such as marrying to land or perhaps marrying into a finer family. When it comes to kings, you would marry into alliances of power, peace and such. We have broken this old conservative view of children, and that is no coincidence, Madam President. It is an effect of the fact that progressive forces, including my party – the Social Democratic Party – the labour movement, the women's movement and liberals in Sweden and in other countries, broke the ground for a new view of children, namely that children are not some kind of appendage to families but their own individuals with their own rights. Our role as parents is to provide the support needed during childhood so that children can eventually choose their own future. That is quite different from the view of old, conservative Sweden and Europe. We did not fight these old structures to get them back in other contexts, Madam President, but we are as souled now as at the time of breaking up these old, conservative views of children and women. That is why we will continue to do everything we can and everything in our power to combat the kind of honour-related oppression, child marriages and forced marriages that we unfortunately see taking place. In addition to the legislative proposals that we have already presented, we will continue to do so throughout this term of office.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-138	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that the police would have given this more priority if we had more severe penalties – the higher the penalty value, the more priority. Those who live under the pressure of honor are forced to accept that their lives and their right to make their own life choices are curtailed, and it is often required of them to give up their own will in order to put the honor of the family or family first. In the name of honour, they are subjected to harassment, threats and violence by the people closest to them. Alternatively, they themselves are forced to subject their loved ones to violence and oppression. Madam President, I would like Imagine what it would be like to grow up and live in such an environment — to be governed from childhood and through life. Imagine getting pressure from the family and family on how to behave and not behave. Imagine knowing that when you are married, there will be a man chosen by the family or clan to marry. In my own Kurdish family there is just this: relatives who marry someone who has been chosen for them. I remember a few years ago when I talked to a relative of mine and asked her if she loved her husband. I was told by her that it was arranged, and I will never forget it. Today she has several children with this person. I would never want to live with a man whom I did not choose and whom I did not love – all because someone else has decided that we should start a family together. Usually it's also cousins you're going to marry, to make the family ties stronger. I have a 15-year-old daughter, and I would never ever tell her who she's going or who she's not going to marry. I'll let her decide that for herself. I think that everyone should be allowed to decide and control for themselves who you want to start a family with. Sweden needs to take strong action in respect of honour-related crimes, arranged marriages and forced marriages. This is still happening in Sweden, and we must put an end to it. Unfortunately, this government is doing far too little – and far too late.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-143	Madam President, I would like I do not think there is any doubt among the audience that we agree on the matter. What we also have to explain is the measures we have already taken and the measures we are about to take. I would say that the government I represent has done more than any other government in this area in the fight against honour repression. The exemption previously provided for children under 18 years of age has been removed. There is no longer any such exemption. We removed the opportunity to recognize foreign marriages where one of the parties is under the age of 18. We did that the other year. In these years, we have so ystematically strengthened both the police and prosecutors' work against honour crimes and forced marriage. We have made sure that women's shelters have more money to move with than ever before; I think we have increased the funding for them by over 400% in our years. It's more resources than ever before. These were some examples of what we did during the last parliamentary term, and now we are moving on. A lot of what is being asked for is already under way. Sara Gille calls for tougher penalties – yes, in the investigation proposals we are now working on, there is a proposal for a special penalty basis. This would mean that the legislator and the courts should take a stricter view of a crime that has a motive for honor than of a crime that does not have a motive for honor. If, for example, an assault or abduction is carried out with honorary motives, the legislator and the courts should take a stricter look at it and thus impose a tougher penalty than before. We will introduce that. The proposals also include a lowering of the threshold so that we can prosecute more effectively those who push their children into marriage. We shall no longer require unlawful coercion or exploitation of a vulnerable situation in order for us to hold a guardian liable, but it shall suffice for the guardian to allow the child to enter into a marriage to convict him for it. Thus, there will be a special provision on child marriage, which is also under way. We also want to introduce a specific rule on the ban on exit, that is to say, that children should be able to be placed at risk with a ban on going abroad. This is combined with the possibility of withdrawing passports or refusing to issue passports in those situations. It is about being able to ensure that children are not taken out of the country against their will, for example, to be married away or to be genitally stifled, and it is also included in the legislative proposals we are now working on. Our plan is to finish the legislative work early next year and that we should be able to go to Parliament before the bill closes in March. In that case, we can have new laws and stricter rules in place already on 1 July next year. In addition, we have already planned the next step, Madam President: we have also begun to look at the possibility of introducing a specific criminal classification with a specific scale of penalties precisely for honour crimes. It is also a consequence of the January agreement. We will therefore continue to tighten the rules on this, to ensure that the right to choose for yourself how to live your life – and with whom to live your life – applies to everyone in Sweden, regardless of origin.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-150	Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson and I may agree on the substance that someone should be done, but when it comes to what should be done, we differ. This is not the first time Morgan Johansson and I have been discussing these issues. The current government has had many years to save these children and women so that they have a dignified, independent life, yet this still exists. I know that several new laws have been adopted recently, but did they save the Kurdish woman near Gothenburg – the woman who was brutally murdered by her husband precisely because of honour? What Morgan mentions is not enough. Pela was murdered in 1999. Fadime was murdered in 2002. It is 20 years without sensible measures. The Alliance and the Social Democrats share responsibility for what Sweden looks like today as well as for the fact that the problem even occurs here. It does not hold up for 20 years with measures when you know that people die in the meantime. It is scandalous that the government has been in charge for so many years without getting these problems right. Some support for women's shelters, investigations and so on – is that really all the government has to come up with?
i-1170d48021bb27fe-153	Madam President, I would like No, and I think that those who have followed the debate have been able to hear that the government has not only taken far more measures than that, but is also about to take more. For example, we closed the gaps in child marriage during the previous term of office, and we reinforced the work of the police and prosecutors against honour-related violence during the previous term of office. We are now making a unique effort on the law enforcement authorities, with 10 000 more employees to the police in the coming years, and there this issue is one of the priorities. We are also moving on with penalties, an exit ban, the possibility of withdrawing passports into these situations and much more. I would like to say, therefore, that although it is probably never possible to guarantee that it is possible to protect all individuals in all contexts – for no parliament or government will ever be able to do so – we can nevertheless ensure that legislation is as strong as possible and that the resources available to law enforcement authorities are as large as possible, in order to ensure that these problems can be reduced. It is also a question of sending a signal to the possible perpetrators – to say: If you behave in this way, you are violating Swedish legislation, and then we will simply go in with sanctions against you. I think that's a very important signal to the possible perpetrators. All children and young people in Sweden have the right to choose their own way forward, and we will continue to do everything we can to ensure that this also applies to everyone.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-157	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me how I and the government work to give children better support when parents find it difficult to get along. Maria Stockhaus has asked me why I am delaying making proposals on the basis of the report of the 2014 custody inquiry. It is important that the rules on custody, housing and association are designed to ensure the best interests of the child and to reduce the risk of harming the child due to long-term conflicts. These are complex issues, which the 2014 custody investigation has been tasked with paying attention to and considering. The care investigation also included a survey of the increase in the number of custody cases in the last ten years. The investigation concluded that the custody cases, after cases in which the social welfare board is seeking had been excluded, had increased by nearly 50 percent. As I understand Mikael Eskilandersson, he is, among other things, critical of the regulation in the parental code that states what the court should pay particular attention to when it makes the assessment of whether custody should be shared or not. He also wants to see a special support person for the child. The care inquiry has, among other things, presented a proposal aimed at the regulation of the parental code that Mikael Eskilandersson questions. The report also contains other interesting and good proposals. An important aim of the proposals is to reduce the number of conflicts between parents and to settle fewer disputes in court. Another aim is to increase the focus on the child. The study has made a number of proposals to ensure children's rights and participation in the process. The child and the child's needs should be at the centre, even if no support person is proposed. It takes time to analyse such a comprehensive material as the care inquiry has presented. Many consultation bodies have also expressed their views on the proposals. However, the issues are important for the government, and we intend to come back.
i-GbD9waLvA3ZTuW9pw9CuT7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for your answer! With regard to support for children in a custody dispute and the need for a support person, it is not a supporter in court that I and my party would have liked to have seen more of, which I believe Morgan has also understood. There we agree with the position of the investigation See the child! Instead, it is about the type of support person that several municipalities today give children in different ways. Between 2015 and 2017, a project with so-called collaboration teams was ongoing in five Swedish municipalities. It was the municipalities Helsingborg, Nacka, Norrköping, Malmö and Västerås that were part of this project. It was a relatively successful project, for which the government was involved in providing funds. What emerged was that children in custody disputes often benefit from support in several ways. A clear ambition in the experiment was also to get in touch with the families early, before the conflicts were too big. This is fully in line with the system that we Swedish democrats have been going on about for many years. We want an early intervention with mediation talks, similar to the Norwegian model for We also want better support for the child during the process. Now, of course, the efforts of social services are a matter for each municipality, and municipal self-government is not something that we want to touch. However, it is perfectly possible for a government to take further initiatives similar to those already taken in the past on collaborative teams, which it has also initiated in the past. Unfortunately, the current situation for municipalities is that they often have such major financial problems to cope with day-to-day operations that they do not have the surplus to consider improvements and resource enhancements for children, in this case. It's more about keeping your nose above the surface of the water than about taking some actual swims forward. I'm on 3rd of chapter. Section 6 of the Social Services Act states that a municipality can appoint a contact person if the guardian so requests. Children over 15 years of age can also request a contact person themselves as support at the time of visit. This paragraph actually refers more to situations where you see a threat from one parent or where you do not dare to face one parent yourself. Nevertheless, I do not think it unreasonable to think that a child can get a contact person from the social services even if the child is under 15 years of age, also for support in the custody process itself and not just to meet his other parent. According to Save the Children, one in five parents involved in a custody dispute reports that their child is not well. The fact that serious disputes in the family can cause children mental illness also seems to be a broad consensus. Children need support, and one way to increase this support is to appoint a support person. That's why I'm pressing for a support person. Then I have understood that Morgan may have focused more on the investigation See the child! which does not really concern the very type of support person that I mean in this regard.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-171	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I used Google to find out how many days ago it was really like the investigation See the child! Got it done. In fact, it was precisely today 1 000 days ago that this investigation landed on the table of the government. There are 82 consultative bodies that have spoken, and most are in favour of much of what the investigation proposes. Between 2017 and 2018, i.e. for about a year, 7 500 disputes concerning family law were settled in court. There are 7 500 families who have not received support and help in resolving their disputes out of court. Any dispute can be about several children – children who are worn between parents for a long time and who are at risk of having a negative impact on their childhood and schooling. Children who are exposed to custody disputes are at great risk of having problems with mental illness, such as depression and lack of self-esteem. They are also more likely to end up in drug abuse. Madam President, I would like New legislation is needed to reduce the risk of children being affected when parents cannot agree. It is unreasonable that it should take so long for new legislation to be put in place when the consultation bodies are positive and the issue does not have a great deal of political exploding power. All parties have an interest in improving the situation of children in custody disputes. The Minister of Justice said in his reply that the government considers the issue important and intends to return. My obvious follow-up question is: When does the government intend to return?
i-1170d48021bb27fe-177	Madam President, I would like First of all, I want to say something about the background. This study was partly used as a way of evaluating the reform of the system that took place in 2006. Perhaps one should say that this reform is doing quite well in the evaluation. The study indicates that the perspective of child rights has been strengthened and that children are more likely to be heard than in the previous system. Better risk assessments are made by the Court of Justice than in the past. The investigation also believes that the courts make far more nuanced assessments than before and that the best interests of children have a more prominent role. Besides, more people get sole custody. This was actually part of the aim of the reform. We knew that a problem was that parents who are basically deeply unfit as guardians could still remain and have joint custody. For example, it could be about a violent man who beat both his wife and children – one should not have custody. The aim of the reform – in such situations, for example, to increase the possibility of sole custody – is achieved. As a whole, the investigation shows that it was a positive reform that we Social Democrats pushed through in 2006. However, this has led to an increase in the number of disputes, not by 100%, as Maria Stockhaus claims, but rather by about 50%, because the cases in which the Social Welfare Board is seeking to be excluded have to be excluded. These cases generally do not relate to disputes between parents, but to completely different issues. If we only look at disputes between parents, there is an increase from 2,800 disputes in 2006 to just over 4,100 disputes in 2015, that is, about 50% more, and that was probably quite expected. Since the new law opened up for more of sole custody, it could be expected that there would be more disputes. Now the investigation is proposing a series of changes that we are working on today. For example, it is precisely the wording that Mikael Eskilandersson mentions in his interpellation, and which today says that the court should attach particular importance to the parents' ability to cooperate. This is what the investigation wants. Instead, the court should look more closely at the ability of the parents to take joint responsibility in matters relating to the child. Then the perspective, according to the investigation, is moved to the child's needs instead of the parents' ability to cooperate. This has been well received by the consultation bodies, and we are working on it. Mikael Eskilandersson spends quite a long time telling him that he wants to see a special support person for the child. It is true that this is not part of the investigation's proposal. But it is also not included in the Swedish Democrats' budget; you have not financed the proposal. If you Swedish democrats are serious about your proposal for a special support person for the child, you must be so good as to put money into it. But you have not done so, and I cannot interpret it in any other way than that you are trying to implement something without funding it. If so, it's bad. Maria Stockhaus is asking about the timetable. We had a meeting at the department with the entire civil committee a few months ago. We then went through a great deal of these proposals. Then I also said that we are aiming for a bill on this matter in the next autumn, and that statement is still valid. I do not think that either Maria Stockhaus or Mikael Eskilandersson attended the meeting, but now you hear in this House that we are aiming for a bill on this next autumn.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-186	Before I release Mikael Eskilandersson, the Swedish Democrats, I would like to say that we are speaking through the President. It is quite right that the interpellier has done, but you should use both the first and last names in the speaker's chair.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-187	Madam President, I would like With regard to the issue of having a child supporter in custody disputes, I would say that it is certainly part of a great deal of our municipal budgets. As I said in my introduction, this is above all a municipal question. We do not want to go in and govern municipal self-government, but we want to look at what the government actually did between 2015 and 2017. Then they went in and supported the municipalities in starting work to provide support for the children. Since it is not a national issue, it is not included in our national budget. But that does not prevent the government from going in and providing support, as they have done before, for what they call collaboration teams that existed in five Swedish municipalities. It is clear that this is a matter of a few millions to be made available for this, and it is very possible that we have not done so in our large budget. I have not checked our budget so closely. I sat in the care inquiry, and we all parties agreed across all party boundaries that what came out of the investigation See the child! Be good. I fully share Maria Stockhaus' view on the need for new legislation. It is worrying that it has taken so long when it is something that the parties still agree on. So there is not much that we have to discuss when it will be implemented, it feels like. What's to be distinguished is custody and companionship. It becomes so easy to talk about shared or sole custody and to believe that sole custody means that the child has only one parent. In fact, I think that association is much more important. It is more important for the child to have relations with both parents than to have full custody. In the event of violence, it is obvious that the violent parent should have as little as possible to do with the child. But a convicted parent is still the child's parent, and you can't talk such a person down, for it's actually part of the child that you talk down. Norway and Finland have succeeded much better with their custody legislation than Sweden has. Both Norway and Finland have gone on this with more mediation, or more mekkling as they call it in Norway, and they have tried to move it outside the courts. I think that's really the key to success, because if two adults can't sit down and get along, I don't think it'll help no matter how many courts you have and no matter how many judges you call in to get these people to get along. Somewhere it is a question of the parents having to resolve the situation among themselves. Then, of course, the solution can be to give custody to one of the persons.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-192	Madam President, I would like Regardless of the percentage increase in the number of custody disputes, I think that one dispute in court is one too many. There has been a sharp increase regardless of the figure. Investigation See the child! is not only about reducing the number of custody disputes in court, but also about protecting children in families where there has been violence. Unfortunately, there are several examples, which can be read about in evening newspapers, where a parent has custody of children even though he has murdered the children's mother. The investigation proposes, among other things, that custody be transferred to a temporary guardian – a proposal that is intended to be used precisely in cases where a guardian intentionally killed the other guardian. Another important aspect of the investigation is the rights of the child, which are reinforced by the study's proposals, and where most of the consultation bodies agree. It is about the child's right to speak without any influence from any of the parents but also about the child's right to avoid long investigation periods and demanding legal proceedings. Madam President, I would like The study also proposes educational efforts to strengthen the competence of, among other things, family law secretaries, which is also important for dealing with children in complex custody processes. As the Minister of Justice mentioned in his previous speech, the wording of today's legislation that the court should take account of the parents' ability to cooperate has been deemed to be conflict-driven. As a result, guardians have deliberately tried to sabotage cooperation in one way or another in order to obtain sole custody. The investigation suggests, as I said, that the court should instead focus on the parents' ability to take joint responsibility for the child in order to reduce the more constructed conflicts. The proposals in the investigation are many and good. It is sad, not least for the children's sake, that none of the proposals has yet been put on the table of Parliament. We talk a lot in many different political contexts about what children's and young people's mental ill-health depends on and how to deal with it. The research and evaluation says that it is very clear that children who have experienced painful custody conflicts and parents who do not agree have an increased risk of mental illness. There is a chance here to improve the situation. I am thinking about what the government's priorities really look like when it takes so long for such important proposals to come here to Parliament.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-199	Madam President, I would like The general comment on the last question is that during the eight years that the Alliance ruled in Sweden, no initiative whatsoever was taken to change this legislation, but we are the ones who will implement these changes. As a whole, I can say that with the reform that we pushed through in 2006, the investigation has come to the conclusion that it is better now than it was before. Children's rights perspective has been strengthened, children are spoken to earlier and in a better way, there are better risk assessments than before, the courts have improved their way of working on this, including with more nuanced assessments, and there is a greater possibility of sole custody. It can be situations where there is violence in the relationship. I believe that Mikael Eskilandersson and I basically agree that a violent parent is not a suitable guardian and that this must be our firm starting point. We are continuing to work on all the proposals of the investigation. It is, as I said, 82 consultative bodies that have spoken, so it is therefore a major piece of legislation. One of the questions concerns the change in the wording on the working capacity of the parents. Another concerns that the social welfare board should be able to hear children without the consent of the parents, which is important. Mikael Eskilandersson touched on this with mandatory information talks at the social services before starting a dispute in court, and it is also included among the proposals we are working on. Maria Stockhaus raised the issue of temporary guardians for situations where one guardian has killed the other guardian. Then of course there must be a solution. This may be about a violent man who kills his wife as well as a wife who kills his husband, perhaps after having lived in a violent relationship for many years. In the latter case, perhaps you should look a little differently at the matter. You have to see every situation separately. However, it is quite clear that we must have a solution for these situations. So we are working on this and a whole series of other proposals. As I said, it is a major piece of legislation, and it takes time. However, we aim to be able to come to Parliament with this in the autumn of 2020. Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson says that he has not checked his budget very closely. But we have done so, and there is not a word about supporters in the Swedish Democrats' budget. I understand Mikael Eskilandersson that it is not the state that should pay for this, but the municipalities. However, if the state is to impose additional requirements on the municipalities, the state may finance it for the local government sector via budget. But there is not a cent set aside for it in the Swedish Democrats' budget. If the municipalities are going to run this for their own money and without additional government requirements, Mikael Eskilandersson is allowed to run it at municipal level and not in the Riksdag, because this is about the state.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-207	Madam President, I would like Let me start where Morgan Johansson left off. The Swedish Democrats give quite a lot more money to the municipalities than the government does in its budget, and that is why I think we have some room to move around with. After all, the previous project was initiated from above, and that is what I am asking of today's government. Morgan Johansson mentioned the example of one parent killing the other parent. This extreme example was taken up when we discussed in the study what proposals we would put forward in the Se Barn report! We in the investigation quite agreed that this was an exaggerated example because it solves this. You don't send the children home with a parent who killed the other parent; that's not how it works. What happens immediately is that the police arrest this parent, and then the child is taken care of according to the law on care of young people, LVU. This is not a huge problem today and fortunately it is very rare. Let me agree with Maria Stockhaus. In the investigation report See the child! There are many important proposals that urgently need to be implemented. It is difficult to pass laws that resolve all custody disputes, especially those where parents are in conflict with each other. However, I would like to see more initiatives from the government similar to that of collaborative teams, so that more municipalities are helped to get started with support people for the children. This is what I am asking for in my interpellation, but unfortunately I cannot see that the government has any more of these projects going on.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-212	Madam President, I would like 1,000 days is quite a number of days, and there are so many days that have passed since the investigation was completed. It is 1 000 days in which nothing has improved for children who are in painful conflicts between their parents, conflicts that drag on and endanger the child's mental health. The issues are absolutely complex, but many of these proposals have been supported by the consultation bodies. One of the reasons why I have asked this interpellation is that I have been contacted by associations of parents who are worried and wondering what has happened to the investigation and whether there will be none of this. A lot of people are in trouble, and a lot of people are in trouble. There should be no problem in agreeing on these issues here because there is very little political explosive power in them. Today's announcement from Morgan Johansson means that it will take three and a half years from completed investigation to proposal. I think that the children who get caught above all deserve better than that. But these children can hardly be prioritised by the government, which is remarkable.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-217	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus says nothing has improved. But I have pointed out that according to the care inquiry it actually improved in 2006. Children's rights perspective increased, the courts made better assessments than before, the risk assessments improved and the children came to the fore. So it got better in 2006 when we pushed this through. Then we had an eight-year period in which the Alliance ruled, and then nothing was done to change this legislation. What we are going to do now is to further improve what was better in 2006, in the light of the investigation proposal that exists, and we will go to Parliament with it. Mikael Eskilandersson thinks it is an exaggerated example that a man kills his wife. No, it's not. In fact, two thirds of all women who are killed in Sweden are killed by a family member or former family member, and not infrequently there are children in these relationships. These are, of course, extremely tragic examples, but they do exist. Then there must be a solution for custody, and therefore the investigation put forward the proposal that we are now working on and that I believe is necessary. Madam President, I would like If further action is required, such as the recruitment of support staff, it should also be financed in its draft budgets. Otherwise, we are not serious about our proposals. But Mikael Eskilandersson may be able to do differently next time.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-221	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me when I think a national deputy register can be in place. He has also asked me when a central administrative authority responsible for supervision can be set up and how it will limit the number of tasks per deputy. The system of good men and stewards is based on individuals in all parts of society taking on a mission that represents an important contribution for a vulnerable fellow human being. In order to ensure the legal certainty and equal treatment of individuals and to ensure that citizens have confidence in the system, it is important that supervision is effective and of high quality. The government takes the work to improve the regulatory framework for deputy representation very seriously. We have recently assigned special investigators to review the rules on good men and trustees. The review aims, inter alia, to improve supervision. The investigator's task includes taking a position on the question of a national deputy register. The investigator will also consider how state supervision in this area will be organised in the future. The assignment will be presented in February 2021, and I look forward to seeing the results. The Government will then decide which measures or changes to the legislation should be implemented.
i-BqMdW5ptfinzndgdDTUYKa	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for your answer! Regrettably, criticism of the shortcomings of today's system has been massive. They have been known at least since the beginning of 2014, when the former Minister of Justice Beatrice Ask promised measures. Unfortunately, the affected group is exposed in many ways. However, the affected are not enough to be important in an election movement, and this is probably the most important reason why so little has happened since 2014. Morgan Johansson refers to an investigation to be presented in February 2021. A bill will probably not come before the 2022 elections. This means, in practice, that the government has chosen to bury the issue throughout this term of office as well, just as no concrete measures were found during the previous term of office. I can only regret this. The Swedish National Audit Office's review makes several proposals that can be implemented immediately if you really want to, but to quote Ior in Nalle: Not everyone can, and some do not. That's just the way it is. Madam President, I would like There is no reason to discuss the government's continued burial of the issue in more posts, so I do not intend to use my other contributions.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-229	Madam President, I would like I would think that the abrupt conclusion that Mikael Eskilandersson is now opening up to is rather that he had simply not noticed that we have set up the review investigation that he is asking for. We already did this this summer. His interpellation bears no trace that he has seen this at all. Now he is probably a little ashamed when it dawns on him that what he wants to be done, that is to say the setting up of a review investigation, has already been done. The issues raised by Mikael Eskilandersson in his interpellation are included in the review: the question of a register, the question of better supervision and, moreover, sanctions, and the question of how many assignments a person can have. This question has to do with keeping a register at all so that you know how many missions people have. There are also issues that Mikael Eskilandersson does not raise, for example that in some more difficult cases you should be able to get professional representatives. This question is also addressed in the mission. There is the question of support and training for deputies. There is the question of better opportunities for the individual to bring a complaint to his or her deputy. There are better opportunities for the individual to receive compensation when the deputy misbehaves. So the investigation is in place. It is Kathrin Flossing, former director of parliament, who is the investigator. When I receive a report on this part, I expect to be able to go to Parliament so that we can implement the reform during this parliamentary term. It is completely wrong to say that the government does not care about this issue. This is the first time a government has taken this broad approach to the system. We are doing this now, and I look forward to being able to carry out such a reform. It would be good, Madam President, if Mikael Eskilandersson could read a little about what we are doing before he makes interpellations.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-235	Madam President, I would like Now I could think of two minutes. I would like to say very briefly that there will be no proposal during this parliamentary term, given how long it has taken to include previous proposals. Action has been promised since 2014, so I see no reason for any longer discussion.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-237	Madam President, I would like This remains to be seen. The report shall be submitted in February 2021. Then there will be a year and a half left until the 2022 elections. With three months of consultation, it is clear that we should be able to implement the reform during that period. That's the plan we have. If this is not the case, Mikael Eskilandersson will have to return, but never doubt that it is our ambition to strengthen the system! This is an important reform that I would like to make.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-238	Madam President, I would like In view of the previous debate on See the Child! , which took considerably longer than barely a year and a half, I see no reason why it would suddenly go very quickly at the Government Office now. If so, you have delayed See the child! That is not what Morgan Johansson said in his previous speech.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-239	Madam President, I would like No one's stalling anything. However, some issues may be a little more difficult to resolve than others. When you are going to solve issues, you have to take in what the consultation bodies say. When you're about to create teams and new systems, you can't just shoot from your hips and unscrupulous things, but it actually has to be things that can work in reality, too. But as I said, there is ambition, and we have a review in place and a report at the beginning of 2021. Then we will proceed with the preparation.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-241	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me if I and the government intend to review the succession order so that cousins can again get inheritance rights when closer relatives are missing. Society is in many ways different today from when the succession rights of cousins were abolished more than 90 years ago. For example, it has become easier to clarify which heirs exist after a deceased person. Some of the arguments put forward in support of abolishing the right of inheritance of cousins are therefore naturally not valid to the same extent today. However, the abolition of cousins' succession rights was based on arguments of various kinds. For example, it is still relatively rare that a person lacks other, closer relatives than cousins. A right of inheritance for cousins would therefore, in the vast majority of cases, have no meaning. It should also be pointed out that, in cases where the Fund is closest to inheritance, the General Heritage Fund has the possibility to waive the succession under certain conditions. It is not true that the General Fund takes part in successions or wills contrary to the original idea of the Fund. The Inheritance Fund's activities are carefully regulated by law, and the funds allocated to it make a big difference in society. The funds are used to support non-profit activities in favour of children, young people and persons with disabilities. Inheritance rights cannot be extended indefinitely. Somewhere the line has to be drawn. That the border goes by cousins is not unique to our country. Since the abolition of the right of inheritance of cousins in Sweden, several Nordic countries have followed suit. However, it is important to point out that those who feel a strong relationship with their cousins have every opportunity to decide in a will how the estate is to be distributed. Finally, I note that the issue raised by Mikael Eskilandersson is not new. It has been discussed in Parliament on several occasions. Only in April this year, the Committee on Civil Liberties rejected a motion with the same meaning. I share the view expressed by Parliament. There is therefore no reason to review the possibility of extending the succession right to include cousins.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-246	Madam President, I would like The problem is the government's initial value in terms of inheritance and inheritance laws. The government assumes that people know when to die, that they know under what conditions they will die and that they have also considered which laws apply long before. With this logic, one can of course think that it should be the country of residence and not the citizenship that determines which rules should apply. You might also think that there should be a will if the succession does not appeal to the deceased. Most people, however, have not planned their own death, nor do they know exactly what rules apply. Moreover, they do not always know what other conditions affect. For those who have children, it is obvious to assume that the children will inherit, but it is not certain that this will happen. If the whole family were suddenly to be wiped out, perhaps in another of the nearly 200 bombings that so far have hit Sweden only this year, there may not be any children left that can inherit, which one cannot gladly have planned for. That the inheritance will suddenly end up with associations such as the Somali Federation of Nations in Sweden, Skånes Horn of Africa or Yallatrappan is rarely in the interest of the deceased or even in his mind world before he dies. The General Heritage Fund was established to provide maintenance and upbringing for the growing race. In the 1928 bill, it was written down as a special fund for the promotion of child and youth care and education. How this goes with the Somali Federation of Sweden, Skånes Horn of Africa or Yallatrappan Morgan Johansson is happy to explain to me. It is also a big city perspective that you are far from your cousins and that they should therefore not be heirs. This is perhaps the case in Stockholm and perhaps also in Lund but hardly in our countryside where many land properties have been divided up in previous inheritance arrangements and where cousins now live as neighbors with adjacent land owned by the same family for many centuries. It is true that, at a higher age and without closer relatives than cousins, one should be aware of the succession. Unfortunately, not everyone dies at a particularly old age. Nor is it always clear which heirs really exist until it is too late to write a will. With the logic of the government, anyone who does not want to give their inheritance to the Somali National Association in Sweden or to Yallatrappan should always write a will that says how the inheritance should be distributed if heirs according to Swedish law are missing. For who really knows which heirs are in life on the day the inheritance is to be distributed.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-252	Madam President, I would like First of all, I can say that you don't need to know when to die to write a will. I'd think most of the people who write a will have no idea. I guess it's only those on their deathbed who can have a hum about it. But most people who write a will probably don't know when to die. I'll find out how big this issue is. Cousin arv could only come about if there is no spouse in life, if there are no children in life, if there are no grandchildren in life, if there are no siblings in life, if there are no nephews in life, if there are no nephews in life, if there are no nephews in life, if there are no grandparents in life, if there are no aunts, uncles, aunts or uncles in life, but there may still be some cousin in life. That's the order. With this list, one understands what a microscopic question this really is. That is a very small proportion of the total estate we are talking about here. If you fall away without having any of these in life and want your cousins to inherit you, then you can write a will. And, as I said, you don't need to know when to die to do it. You can do that at any moment. Madam President, I would like So the Cousin Heritage was abolished almost 100 years ago. We are, once again, not alone. Cousin arv does not exist in Finland, not in Denmark and not in Iceland. I see no reason to reintroduce it in Sweden.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-256	Madam President, I would like Although it was quite a few times that cousins were the subject of an inheritance, there were enough to make one feel compelled to form the General Heritage Fund at all. There is quite a lot of money that the National Heritage Fund is handling today. Unfortunately, the parliamentary investigation service could not investigate exactly how much money it would amount to as cousins instead would inherit, because there was no register to start from. In fact, I have tried but I have been given the answer that you simply could not see how much money it would be. On the other hand, few people would probably not have cousins in their lives either. There is a point of justice behind this. The fact that cousins don't inherit means that if you happen to have an aunt, uncle, aunt or uncle in life, it inherits. Of course, if it is not alive, this aunt, uncle, aunt, or uncle will not inherit. This enables the cousins on one side to receive an inheritance but not the cousins on the other side, depending on the order in which this aunt, uncle, aunt or uncle died. If the uncle dies before he doesn't inherit that side with cousins, and if the aunt happens to die before he inherits that side with cousins. It's basically a random generator, so it's random whether you get an inheritance or not. Often it is about the uncle, aunt, aunt or uncle having a quite old age. In practice, therefore, it is usually the cousins who take over the inheritance. Then there is a point in what Morgan Johansson says about the fact that most other Nordic countries do not have cousin inheritance. Norway has a cousin's inheritance. When an investigation was set up to start looking at common rules on inheritance, the expert appointed for Sweden in the early 2000s, who had done a longer compilation, came to the conclusion that the best thing would be to go on Norway's line, because he felt that Norway's line was the most fair, that is, that everyone should introduce cousin inheritance again instead of Norway should remove cousin inheritance. He then notes that there may also be other political aspects so that this will still not be implemented. I think we should take Norway's example. I find it hard to see that the National Heritage Fund is a better solution than that of cousins.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-261	Madam President, I would like I think everyone who heard the list in my previous speech understands what a microscopic question we are talking about. Perhaps these are some per mil of the total number of deaths in which this could be considered at all. Then there is the question of how many of those who have cousins in life. Somewhere you have to draw a line. Mikael Eskilandersson says that it depends a lot on chance here. But it is true of all inheritance situations, that it is chance that determines who dies and at what times and how the inheritance is distributed? It's not unique to this particular situation, is it? On the contrary, it is true of all inheritance situations. Mikael Eskilandersson then joined the Swedish National Heritage Fund in his previous speech. Let me just say that, during the 90 years of its existence, the General Heritage Fund has been able to support hugely important activities for children, young people and disabled people in Sweden. For example, the predecessors of child care centres, maternity care centres, general preschools and student aid were financed before we had a welfare state that we now have, that is, before these systems were constructed. In recent years they have financed, for example, Bri's helpline, Glada Hudik theatre, Cirkus Cirkör and Friends, who work against bullying, and many other things. It is basically a very fine activity and a necessary support. It is managed and supervised by Kammarkollegiet. Mikael Eskilandersson would argue that this would go to some kind of extremist activity. But there has been no evidence or evidence of it. The General Heritage Fund is and remains an important part of allocating money to, for example, the needs of children, young people and people with disabilities.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-264	Madam President, I would like To be a microscopic issue, relatively many millions are still being managed in the General Heritage Fund. A large part of this money would not end up in the General Inheritance Fund if cousins had succession rights. At least that much can be said of it. One of the largest groups to receive funds from the General Heritage Fund is the group for integration and diversity projects. I do not know if I think it really goes hand in hand with what was actually the idea of working for the well-being of the growing race, that is, for youth projects. Then I can also see that the National Heritage Fund spends a great deal of money on all kinds of generally well-meaning projects. But the question is whether it is right for the state to take in money that could be inherited by someone else and then hand it out to projects that you apparently think are better. It is about justice, that we should have a fair system that is also predictable and where chance does not decide who gets the inheritance. I mean, it's much more random when aunt, uncle, aunt and uncle inherit but not cousins. It would be more reasonable to draw the line after cousins. Then both sides of the parents would have the same inheritance opportunity. It is not chance that determines how the inheritance is normally distributed. If my children inherit, they get 33% each, because I have three children. It is not chance that determines that inheritance. It is only when there are no breast heirs that there are not very clear rules.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-269	Madam President, I would like Yes, it's about the breast heirs. But then you have the other inheritance classes, where it can be about nephews, nephews and so on. There comes the question of chance, whether that chain is broken in any way before the inheritance can be distributed. I think that is a rather weak argument put forward in that particular part. Basically, as I said, it is a very small question. If you want your cousins to inherit, you just have to write a will. It's no harder than that. Mikael Eskilandersson then comments on how the Swedish National Heritage Fund will distribute its money. As usual, when SD gives its opinion, it sounds: Feel free to spend money, but no money for immigrants! This is what it is about: no money for integration projects! That is what SD is after in this debate. It always ends that way when you talk to SD. As I said, the General Heritage Fund supports activities that finance what I listed earlier: Glada Hudik Theatre, Circus Cirkör, Friends, Bri's Helpline and much more. This is done completely regardless of the ethnic background of children and young people and disabled people who receive the money. I think that's right and proper. That's how it's supposed to work.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-273	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me to answer the question whether I consider it appropriate for Swedish aid funds to go to Unrwa's teaching material and whether I consider that the mechanisms to ensure that Unrwa uses aid funds properly are adequate. Unrwa provides support to over 5 million Palestinian refugees in Jordan, Syria, Lebanon and Palestine, and enables, among other things, the schooling of over half a million Palestinian children in these areas. The organisation and its activities have a stabilising effect on a region severely affected by conflict and extremism. Unrwa is a UN body, and as such it falls under the same conditions of scrutiny as other UN bodies. The Education Framework clarifies that teaching should reflect UN values and principles such as respect for human rights, tolerance to differences and peaceful conflict management. Unrwa follows the host country curriculum to enable students' advancement via national higher education exams. Unrwa examines the course literature used and takes strong action to deal with material that does not live up to UN values. In such cases, teachers address problematic passages in line with UN guidelines and use complementary educational materials. Unrwa puts a great deal of effort into developing the skills of all teachers to enable them to identify and act on and when a text passage does not live up to the UN guidelines. In January this year, the Unrwa Corps of Teachers was instructed not to use Dalal al-Mughrabi's text in education, to which Ludvig Aspling refers in the interpellation, after the revision of the Palestinian Authority's textbooks identified the text as inappropriate. In this context, I would like to point out that the government obviously takes a strong stand against anti-Semitism and is carrying out extensive work to combat anti-Semitism, both nationally and internationally. The government believes that Unrwa is doing what is possible to ensure that teaching reflects the fundamental values of the UN, including tolerance to differences. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Sida continuously monitor and review the operations. Sweden controls and follows up Unrwa's work through the humanitarian strategy, the joint evaluations that are made and through close dialogue with Unrwa and Swedish participation in its board. In addition, Unrwa is continuously reviewed by several actors to ensure impartiality. Another organisation, Mopan, evaluates the work of multilateral organisations. They published a comprehensive evaluation of Unrwa's activities in June this year. Mopan found that Unrwa is a competent organisation that lives up to its mandate in a resource-congested environment and a difficult context of recurring conflict. Mopan also highlights education as one of Unrwa's strengths, enriching national education plans with human rights education and highlighting issues such as gender-based violence. As regards the accusations against individuals in Unrwa's leadership, I take very seriously those who are dealing with misconduct and abuse of power. We are now waiting for the UN Secretary-General to make an assessment based on the conclusions of the UN Office for Internal Review Investigation. The issue must be dealt with transparently and urgently, as we have raised with the Secretary-General several times. We have also addressed this directly with Mr Unrwa's leadership. We have been very clear that the facts need to be clarified and any necessary measures taken. We expect great transparency and compliance from Unrwa, as well as from all the partners that the government has. We have also made it clear that if the accusations against individuals in the leadership of Unrwa are confirmed by the investigation, it means that the trust of the management is exhausted and that it must resign.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-283	Madam President, I would like UN Palestine Authority Unrwa is not uncontroversial. The organisation has been accused in several contexts of not being impartial in the Middle East conflict and of conducting serious anti-Semitic terror propaganda in its schools. The Minister for Development has previously commented on the criticism as follows: The allegations that Unrwa would legitimise anti-Semitism or terrorism have repeatedly been shown to be wrong. I would therefore like to take a few concrete examples from these school books, which are funded by Swedish aid money, and to hear what the Minister for Development thinks of them. The book Our Beautiful Language, Year 3, 2018 edition, p. 64 says: I promise that I will sacrifice my blood to water the land of the generous. And will remove the intruder from my country. And will exterminate the rest of the immigrants. I am not an expert on the Green Party's ideology, but this thing about eradicating immigrants thought I was something that the Green Party would react a little more strongly to than you actually do. The book Arabic Language, Year 5, 2018 edition, p. 52 tells the story of Dalal al-al-Mughrabi, who kidnapped and murdered Jewish children: After they had caused the occupation a large number of wounded and deaths, Dalal brought back Deir Yassin part of its right and watered the land of Palestine with its fresh blood. Watering the country with its fresh blood — that this is not suitable for children is quite obvious. We can proceed to the book Arabic Language, Year 8, 2018 edition, p. 148. Here it is about the instruction of the teacher, that is, what to do during a lesson: The student should find himself free time to reflect on the dangers of the greedy ambitions of the Jews. If this isn't anti-Semitism, Peter Eriksson, what is anti-Semitism? I would like to know what the Minister for Development thinks when he hears these examples and about the fact that hundreds of thousands of children are being drilled into this kind of fanatical violence romance in schools funded by Swedish aid money. For example, would the minister of aid ever read these things to his own children? No, of course he wouldn't, because this is totally baroque.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-292	Madam President, I would like I can well counter that I am not an expert on the ideology of the Swedish Democrats, but with the origin of the party it is surely a positive thing to hear that SD is now trying to be anti-Semitism. I think this is an extremely positive development. I said in my first speech that the very texts that came from this book have been removed. It has been said by Unrwa's leadership that they should not be used, and it has been told to the colleges of teachers that those texts and books should be removed. This was done in January 2019. It is precisely that book and edition, with the story of Dalal al-al-Mughrabi, which is identified as very inappropriate. I think it is directly offensive and inappropriate to use. It is therefore also a good thing that these texts have now been removed from teaching. I came back from this region just recently. I was on a trip to Lebanon, Jordan, Palestine and Israel the other week. The context is incredibly difficult and conflict-filled, and it is full of extremism and fundamentalism from all sides – from both Israeli and Palestinian sides as well as from elsewhere. I think that the assessment that I and many others make of Unrwa's work on education and health care – it is therefore about over 500 000 young people who go to school and receive education thanks to the UN organisation – has been incredibly important to bring down the spiral of violence and contribute to a calmer development and less violence in the region. I believe that we must also pay tribute to those who work at UN offices and organisations with educational issues because they have done a very good job. Now, as I said, it is an extremely difficult situation. For example, 1.8 million Palestinians live in the Gaza area in an area that is practically an open camp, and as Palestinians you cannot usually leave. People are born and live their whole lives in a refugee camp and have very little opportunity to live a normal life. Nor do we, from the Swedish side, have full access there because Israel closes the borders and makes it very difficult for us to follow up on the efforts that Unrwa and other organisations are making to combat extremism and get a calm and impartial education in the area.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-298	Madam President, I would like So the Minister for Development would like to pay tribute to the people who chose to buy these books from the very beginning. I would like to say, kindly but firmly, that it is particularly inappropriate to do so. The Minister for Development also highlights the fact that this organisation is doing some good things in health care and certainly in education where it is not about this kind of rubbish that I highlighted in my first speech. This is true, but Sweden still has a choice as to which organisation we want to use as an implementing partner to help refugees. Here there is a choice between either using another organisation or an organisation that is severely weighted by anti-Semitism, terror propaganda and corruption. At that point, the government chooses the latter. It's very strange to me. When it comes to a difficult context, the conflict in the Middle East is a difficult context – it's not news – but it doesn't mean that Sweden can compromise with our values when we spend our aid money. Just because the context is difficult, we cannot accept the purchase of schoolbooks that instruct students to reflect on the dangers of Jews' greedy ambitions. That's completely insane. You can't blame it on the fact that it would be a difficult context. Another question that I find interesting about the interpellation response that I receive from the Minister for Development is why this organization needed to be instructed from outside to stop using these books. Was there no teacher who reacted to this and thought that this was not to be used as teaching material? So someone from outside has had to go in and say: You have to stop using these books! Why has no teacher said anything? That is a very good question, and the answer to it is probably that teachers recruited to teach in these schools did not find this a problem. That in itself is extremely serious. The last thing I want to ask is, have you actually stopped using these books? It is stated in the interpellation response that the authority has been instructed to stop using the books. Okay, but have you actually done it? I would like an answer to that.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-303	Madam President, I would like I have to say that I think that Ludvig Aspling's speech is unfortunately full of ignorance and ignorance. This book was printed in 2018, and a decision was made in January 2019 that it should not be used. It could not have been used in many places for any long time before the decision came. So it was a rather quick reaction. As I said earlier, this is a context full of fundamentalism, extremism and difficult conditions. I do not think it has taken time at all, but I think it is quite quickly acted from Unrwa when it is announced that these texts must not be used. When assessing the organisation or educational activities as a whole, one must start from the whole of the teaching. There are over 500 000 children in several countries who use a variety of teaching materials. If you're going to make an evaluation of it, you can't go in and look at an individual text in a book that's already banned. It is completely unreasonable to do such things. I think that Ludvig Aspling should go back and investigate things a little wider if he wants an idea of this, and I think he should not give the impression that you can take the bus and go to another free school in Israel or somewhere else in the Middle East to receive education or that we can send money to such an organisation. This is the United Nations organization. It is probably the organisation of everyone in this area that guarantees the best education and the widest security when it comes to being free from extremism in very difficult conditions – and unfortunately conditions like those in the Gaza Strip, where even Israel makes it difficult or sometimes impossible for us from Sweden to follow up properly how the education is conducted because we do not have full access to it.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-307	Madam President, I would like I note that Peter Eriksson does not answer the most fundamental question in my previous post: Have these books been stopped or not? It's a very simple yes-or-no question. I'd like a message. Peter Eriksson pretends that he does not know the background to the interpellation and claims that I should get deeper into the issue and do a broader analysis of the material available. After all, we are working within certain time limits in this House. If I were to have 20 minutes, I could make the list much longer. I could also bring pictures, videos and an endless amount of material to show the Minister of Aid what is going on in these schools. There's a lot of evidence. In an interpellation debate, however, we must stick to a couple of examples. It's in the nature of things. Nor do I say that the situation is always simple. The intervention is not about whether people can take a bus to a free school in another city or whether Sweden's relationship with Israel, which this government may not have handled in the best way, enables us to follow up on this. The interpretation is about how we should use Swedish aid money. Can we defend that Swedish aid money is used to purchase this type of material? No, we can't. It's not the first time it's turned out that Unrwa's books contain this kind of rubbish, and that's probably not the last time. I can assure you that within a year we will be standing here and talking about it again. Because it's a serial that never seems to end. The only way to put your foot down is to stop the money. Several EU countries have chosen to do so. I hope that Sweden will also wake up, hopefully during this parliamentary term, and decide to stop funding this kind of nonsense.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-312	Madam President, I would like I'm a little surprised. The only example mentioned by Ludvig Aspling is an example from a book that is not allowed and possibly existed for a few months. It was printed in 2018 and was banned in January 2019. I don't know if it's still in any classroom. However, I know that it is not allowed by Unrwa. Unrwa also has a continuous dialogue with teachers on what teaching material to use and which should not be used. It's the best guarantee we can get from any teaching actor in this region. The fact that 500 000 children go to school there instead of driving around the streets is a great advantage and has contributed to stability in the region, not to more violence in the area. I'm 100% sure of that. Swedish aid funds are used to ensure that it is a decent education for the young in that region rather than that they go to school in the days of quite extreme organisations, such as Hamas in Gaza.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-316	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson has asked me what I and the government intend to do to halt the rapid reduction in the number of dairy farmers in Sweden. Fewer and larger milk enterprises are accounting for an increasing share of production. This is a natural consequence of market developments and entrepreneurs' decisions on how to develop their business. The dairy companies invest in modern stables with loose operation, digitalization and robot milking. It is important for the development of companies, and it creates a better working environment and increased competitiveness. What we need to take very seriously, however, is that total milk production is falling. This should not be the case in Sweden, which has good natural conditions for milk production. The national food strategy with a view to 2030 was adopted by the Riksdag on 20 June 2017. D is the first Swedish strategy that covers the whole food chain in the long term. It provides a clear, anchored line for life support policy up to 2030. The overall objective of the strategy is a competitive food chain where total food production increases while at the same time achieving relevant national environmental objectives, with a view to creating growth and jobs and contributing to sustainable development throughout the country. The first Food Strategy Action Plan included nearly 50 actions to contribute to the overall objectives of the food strategy. This includes, among other things, support for the industry to coordinate to collaborate on research and innovation, in order to promote an innovative, sustainable, profitable and competitive food sector. In addition, there are measures to promote Swedish food exports as part of the continued efforts to increase production, competitiveness and profitability in the food chain. The competitiveness of agriculture is a key aspect of the food strategy, which in turn is an essential part of the peasant package, but it also includes the crisis support decided on in connection with the spring change budget. The formulation of the EU's common agricultural policy is also an important aspect for the implementation of the food strategy. As part of a farmer's package, R Egeringen proposes to strengthen the financing of the food strategy by an additional SEK 176 million in 2020 and SEK 6 2 million annually in 2021 – 2025. I see that the Swedish food chain has a great potential that is important to exploit. In the context of the work on the strategy, we have identified a number of issues that are relevant to dairy businesses, so that there are conditions for companies to continue to develop. We need to keep an eye on the high cost situation of regular production in some cases, the challenges of innovation and knowledge development, and the need for further simplifications, in particular regarding rules that affect companies' ability to grow. These are issues on which I see every reason to continue working.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-322	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer! Sweden should be a fantastic country to produce food in. The climate is good. We have fantastic farmers with enormous knowledge, and the conditions for grain cultivation and meat and milk production are really good in our country. Nevertheless, Madam President, dairy farms after dairy farms are closed down. The Board of Agriculture came a week ago with a new number. Unfortunately, it was bleak. The report shows that until June 2019 only 3,253 dairy businesses remained in the country. Note that the report only applies for the first half of 2019! There is a high risk that the number of dairy holdings will be below 3 000 after the end of the year. When I was elected to Parliament in 2014, Madam President, there were almost 4,400 dairy businesses in the country. So a lot has happened. Of course, farms are being merged, and the units are getting bigger. But looking out over the EU and also looking at countries around the EU, you can see that the number of kilograms of milk weighed is increasing. This applies all over Europe except in one country where it is declining, namely in Sweden. The Minister says in his reply that we have a food strategy. It is of course a good start and a good foundation to have. But when will the dairy farmer Gösta in Alvesta, whom I met last week, or Daniel in Lysekil notice the strategy at farm level? I am deeply concerned about what is happening now. We can't just sit around with our arms crossed waiting for better times. We have to act now. Our country's food self-sufficiency is below 50%. The grocery stores here in Stockholm will be empty after two days in case of a crisis or war situation. I don't think many people in Stockholm know about it. We are only self-sufficient in food such as carrots, wheat flour and sugar. The food trade deficit is over SEK 50 billion. At the same time, dairy farms after dairy farms are laying down because it is not profitable.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-328	Madam President, I would like These are important issues, and they are really important. Magnus Oscarsson listed both a number of challenges and examples of what the previous government did anyway. This is a sector, an industry, which has been neglected for a long time in that there has been no coherent, long-term sustainable political strategy for what we want with Swedish food and Swedish food production. We did that during the last parliamentary term when the food strategy was developed. It was done in broad agreement. It is of course primarily long-term and aims to strengthen Swedish competitiveness in the sector in the long term. But with that said, I share Magnus Oscarsson's ambition and desire that, as we move forward with the food strategy, we focus on measures where the individual farmer notices clearer results directly at farm level. I believe, for example, that the rule issue is something that could be of great importance. Let me turn to the number of dairy farmers and farms. Reducing the number of dairy farms per se is not necessarily a matter of concern, provided that profitability is built by having larger farms that can have more efficient productivity and create better conditions for greater profitability. In this context, however, I am keen to point out that new farms are emerging. When a man like me and, I think, Magnus Oscarsson travels around a lot in the country and meets many farmers, I am struck by a positive thing. There will be new generations who, although they have not been farmers before and have this as an inheritance decide to enter this industry. Often they do it very innovatively and have amazingly much exciting ideas about how they can do things in a new way, organic, sustainable and long-term, and they actually see it as a lifestyle. We shall continue to create the conditions for this. While structural change can be seen in larger farms, we need to ensure that something new is added. We also need to ensure the basic rules or the basic structures. The middle age is now quite high in some of these segments, and when those who have been farmers for a long time face a choice to make new investments, for example in milk robots or other things, in order to be able to keep up with and be competitive, some choose not to do this but instead to close down. We must therefore ensure that the toolbox available to work with is large enough. We have the food strategy and the conditions in it. I agree with Magnus Oscarsson that we need to continue working to strengthen it and make it powerful and effective. We also have the EU's common agricultural policy, that is, CAP, which we are negotiating at Brussels level at the moment. For example, investment aid has been of great importance. It has helped a lot of people to take the step of investing in something new and choosing to stay instead of closing down. It is important to monitor this in the new CAP, on which we are currently negotiating. It needs to be designed in such a way that it operates and creates the conditions for Swedish dairy farmers to continue making the choice to be a dairy farmer in Sweden.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-336	Madam President, I would like As the Minister says, this is very special. We see the problems and how worrying it is for many. At the same time, we do not want young people to feel that there is no hope for the future. Here you have to weigh every word. Many want to invest, but one must have a belief in the future in the peasantry and milk production in our country. The previous government led by Eskil Erlandsson wanted a competitiveness investigator to come up with proposals on how to do this. He put forward several proposals for measures to improve the situation and to strengthen competitiveness. For example, the person in question mentioned that the diesel tax should be reduced and the burden on farmers reduced. The food strategy states that we should increase the production of food. It's gonna be more profitable. Competitiveness will increase in agriculture. In addition, Sweden's self-sufficiency of food will increase. This summer it is three years since we adopted the strategy in this House. Unfortunately, we still see no sign of achieving the strategy's goal of increasing food self-sufficiency, reducing the regulatory burden on agriculture and making agriculture more competitive and more profitable. Now there's a whole battery of questions coming to the minister! Will the government come up with proposals to reduce the regulatory burden? We know that today there is a huge regulatory burden on agriculture. There are good examples of how this has been handled, for example in Finland and Germany.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-341	Is the government going to change the environmental code so that it does not say that agriculture is environmentally hazardous but rather that it has an impact on the environment? I believe that Sweden is the only country where it says in the law that it is environmentally dangerous to produce food for consumers. Will the Minister for Rural Development ensure that the County Administrative Board, which has not managed the state's commitments and paid the EU compensations for 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, now does it?
i-1170d48021bb27fe-343	Madam President, I would like I thank Mikael Oscarsson for the many supplementary questions. I'll try to answer them seriously. If I don't have time for everyone, I have another chance in my closing post. I think that a lot is about being strategically long-term and being able to hold on. It is important that we create good political conditions and where possible seek consensus on these issues rather than conflict, because I think there is a great consensus about what we want with Swedish food production in Sweden. For me, it's a force. I also believe that we can do quite a lot linked to the fact that today we have very conscious consumers who make conscious choices. Now we are talking about milk, but to take meat as an example, we can note that the debate that has been conducted, with all the information now available to consumers, has probably contributed to the consumption of Swedish meat going up despite the fact that meat consumption on the total goes down. I am very keen that we extend this information and debate to dairy products, such as milk and cheese. Today, I think it was, came the WWF recommendation, which shows, for example, that very many countries' cheeses get red light, as they put it, partly because of the excessive use of antibiotics. But at present Swedish consumers are actually buying more imported cheese than Swedish cheese. I think it's because you don't make the connection. We have a common responsibility to make it clear that Swedish quality also applies here. Anyone who wants to buy environmentally friendly, sustainable and healthy should consider buying Swedish. Here we can make a joint effort. Now to Magnus Oscarsson's questions! As far as the regulatory burden is concerned, it is my priority that we try to put in place a system that makes it easier to do the right thing. This is a heavy-duty area. Food is handled, and there are a great many aspects to be taken into account. Most rules exist for a reason. If they do not, or if they have become irrelevant in time, they should be removed. But even if you manage to remove some, there will still be a lot. This means that we need to work with digitalisation, systematisation and other things that make it easier to handle the regulatory burden that exists. It is one of the heavy pieces that is clearly evident in the preparatory work that has been done on Action Plan Two; we will deliver something more concrete before this year is over. That is where I expect us to take further steps. I am happy to receive input on these issues, both from my political combatants and from those concerned, that is, the peasants themselves. I think it was Magnus Oscarsson who first informed me about the environmental code. I can only say that I think it is an unfortunate choice of words. I would have liked to have helped to change it to the environmental impact, just as Magnus Oscarsson says. I do not think, however, that is perhaps the most important aspect in this context. Magnus Oscarsson mentioned the Competitiveness Investigation. For example, it highlighted the need for environmental permit processes to be better, more efficient and more efficient in Sweden. I think that can be a more important tool to access politically. Linked to that, the county boards are of course very important. We have had problems with payments, but we cannot do so much about what has been the case during this period. The ambition is to compensate for it by being the best in the class for the next period.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-351	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for her reply and I am grateful for the answers she has given. I hope that the Minister will consider reviewing the management of the environmental code. Many farmers you talk to feel that this is very strange: I as a farmer produce food, and it should be called dangerous! It is amazing if the Minister wants to look at it and review the regulations. It should be possible to do that, because we change the environmental code from time to time. That would be great. As I mentioned before, we have a trade deficit of over 50 billion on food. It would be interesting to hear what the Minister thinks about how we can get it down. Then I would also like to ask the Minister about the CAP. We have the grazing requirement, which is only available in Sweden. Because of this requirement, our Swedish dairy entrepreneurs cannot receive EU compensation. It is by law that they take the cows out to pasture in the summer. This puts Sweden's dairy farmers at a great disadvantage, when the dairy farmers in Finland, for example, are paid for having their cows grazing. How does the government intend to compensate Sweden's dairy entrepreneurs, who are punished by this law? And how does this go with increasing profitability, as it is written in the food strategy?
i-1170d48021bb27fe-354	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank Magnus Oscarsson for the many questions. In this post I have even less time, but I try to go straight on and graze of them. On the question of the environmental code, I believe that the processes themselves are more important, as I said in my previous speech. But I can absolutely admit that the signal value is not insignificant in this context. I'll take that question with me. When it comes to the degree of self-sufficiency, of course, we want to increase Swedish production, increase profitability and increase the entire chain. One of the most important parts in it is to increase Swedish exports of food. We have the best animal welfare in the world. Our level of antibiotic use in animal husbandry is among the lowest in the world, if not the lowest. It is the result of both political decisions and the work of very good Swedish farmers. Together, we need to help ensure that they are paid for it in a Swedish market, but above all in an international market. This is why we already gave a mission to support food exports in the framework of the export strategy Business Sweden this spring. I think this is important, also in order to increase the degree of self-sufficiency in Sweden. Somewhere, it's connected. We need to push forward throughout the value chains and ensure that you can get paid for the fine work you do and the quality that you have. I now have ten seconds to answer the question about the CAP. What we are pushing is to get a CAP that is well adapted to be able to catch up with a food strategy that means that we get competitively neutral conditions for Swedish farmers. You have the quality. If you just get a good playing field, you'll benefit from it.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-358	Madam President, I would like Mats Green has asked me whether, in the January agreement, the direction of a changed employment service is still in place. He has also asked me why and in what way a system based precisely on the Freedom of Choice Act is the most appropriate basis for the future Employment Service. Furthermore, Mats Green has asked me whether the municipalities will be given a role in this model and what role it will be. Finally, he has asked me how this should be reconciled with the model, based on the law on freedom of choice, which was promised in the January agreement. The government has begun the reform of the Employment Service. The Agency will be fundamentally reformed. The reform work is ongoing in accordance with the direction laid down in the substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. This means that the Public Employment Service will continue to have responsibility for labour market policy but that a new system, based on freedom of choice, will be developed where independent actors match and equip job seekers for the job vacancies. Reform is being carried out to improve the effectiveness of labour market policy activities. The role of the agency is refined to focus on, among other things, the monitoring of job seekers and independent actors, labour market policy assessment, digital infrastructure and statistics and analyses. Independents matching and equipping job seekers for job vacancies will mainly be replaced by how well they succeed in getting individuals into sustainable employment. In addition, in the framework of its government mission to prepare for and assist with analysing certain prerequisites for the reform, Arbetsförmedlingen has analysed which situations where procurement under the Public Procurement Act may be more appropriate. It is important that local authorities' efforts and activities aimed at facilitating the entry of individuals into the labour market are taken advantage of in the reform of the Public Employment Service. How this is to be done needs further analysis. Part of this analysis is about how effective coordination and collaboration with municipalities can take place where these structures can be adapted to the conditions of different municipalities. Another part of this analysis concerns the legal conditions for municipalities to participate in the implementation of state labour market policy. The Government therefore intends to shortly set up an investigation to analyse and assess whether, within the framework of the current regulatory framework, municipalities are allowed to be suppliers of labour market policy interventions in freedom of choice systems. The study will also analyse and assess whether municipalities are able to provide, by means other than by participating in a freedom of choice system, actions for a limited period of time in the event of a finding of insufficient provision of labour market policy services. One starting point is that the division of responsibilities between central government and municipalities remains unchanged. The municipalities' participation must be voluntary and be made on behalf of and with compensation from the Public Employment Service. A well-designed active labour market policy contributes to more people being able to get to work. Work is the most important prerequisite for self-sufficiency and establishment in society.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-366	Madam President, I would like I have put this interpellation on the Employment Service, the January Agreement and the municipalities to the Minister for Labour in the light of an increasing unemployment, a growing frustration among the municipalities and the increasing fragmentation that is becoming increasingly evident between the parties to the January Agreement in terms of change one of the Employment Service. It is the irony of fate, Madam President, that the answer that the Minister for Employment has now read was out of date even before it was read out. The division that we have been able to note in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for a very long time has perhaps been evident to everyone and everyone who has taken part in the various – and conflicting – mass media statements made by the parties to the January agreement. I had a number of examples of this, but I am content to note that the Liberal Party leader made it clear an hour ago that it really wants to drive a full stop on the Social Democrats, the Green Party, Liberals and the Centre Party's intended change in the Employment Service. My first question was whether, in the January agreement, the direction of a changed employment service is still in place. Now the Minister for Labour has stated that it applies, while the Liberals today – an hour ago – have expired and made it clear that it does not apply. I also had questions about the role of municipalities in all of this, not least in view of the frustration that my own old municipal colleagues feel. That is why I had questions about the role of municipalities – particularly in a system based on the Freedom of Choice Act, which is not very simple. So I had questions about the role of municipalities in this, and we have been given the answer that, for example, an investigation should look at it. However, I note that the Liberals have now closed that door and said that there can be no role for municipalities in a system of freedom of choice of this kind. So we received a reply a few minutes ago, and we saw the press conference held last week by the Minister for Labour. An inquiry was set up there, Madam President, with the task of clarifying to the government what was actually agreed in the government's own January agreement – and its consequences. I understand that it is becoming a little difficult for those who are listening to the debate, but it is because it is very turbulent and very difficult at the moment about what actually applies on the part of the government and what actually applies on the part of the parties to the January agreement. I would appreciate it if the Minister for Labour would clarify all of this. I must also note, Madam President, that if I had been a job seeker in Sweden today, or if I had been at the head of one of Sweden's municipalities, I would not have been in any way calmer by the answers we have received here and now.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-372	Madam President, I would like I am on the same committee as Mr Mats Green, and he has many merits. Another merit comes out here, and one might say that is the gift of insolence. The Moderates have proposed a chaotic closure of the Public Employment Service before the elections – they have voted in favour of it and have proposed various types of announcements before the elections – and after the elections, through their napkin drawing budget and together with the Christian Democrats and SD, have actively contributed to the fact that we now see a chaotic situation in the Public Employment Service. But it's a bit like a clock that stands still. Sometimes you can get right anyway. Here I would say that the questions put by Mats Green to the Minister for Labour are quite relevant. The confusion that exists is no less of the move that came from the Liberals just a few hours ago. It is very unclear – and it has been all along – what the market-liberal monster that is to be created should really look like. Now no one understands what the municipalities' role in this will be. However, it is painfully clear to local authorities that there have already been additional costs due to the withdrawal of government services, as the Public Employment Service adapts to the various directives that exist and to the money cuts that have been implemented. Offices are closed down, but it is also the case that there is already a very strained situation for the staff at Arbetsförmedlingen. People are under very strong pressure. These are people who have resigned beyond the great notice that was necessarily laid down after the napkin drawing budget. All of this means that the municipalities are already affected. It is not easier that it was already unclear what the role of municipalities would be like in the future and that further uncertainty now arises when one of the partners says that one must completely abandon what the government has said one should do, i.e. set up an investigation to understand the legal conditions for municipalities to ultimately take responsibility for the white spots that can arise when commercial operators do not consider themselves earning enough money. This gives reason to ask quite serious questions about the government's ability – which is constitutionally determined – to rule the country and thus also to govern all the authorities of the country. In this case, it is one of the largest agencies in the world, namely the Employment Service. It's a chaotic situation. I wish the Minister for Employment could say something that might help to make the situation a little brighter.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-380	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that there is a broad agreement in the Swedish parliament and among the parties sitting here – I am talking about the parties behind the January agreement – that the Employment Service needs to be reformed. This was something that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven said already in 2014, and with the agreement that we signed with the January agreement, we agree to reform the Employment Service. This work has not really begun to be implemented yet. It was on Friday that we received the report from Arbetsförmedlingen, which has had a mission to analyse certain conditions and return with what a new system should look like. I believe that we have a great deal of consensus about precisely the determination that we are going to develop and reform Arbetsförmedlingen. However, it is no secret that there are a lot of details and difficult issues that need to be properly analysed and for which responsibility needs to be taken. I had just this morning a meeting with the head of the agency with representatives of the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals. We have begun some of the issues – not really discussions – that need to be addressed in this report. As Minister for Labour, I would like to take responsibility for the situation currently prevailing in the Agency. I agree with the picture presented by Ali Esbati; it is a very difficult situation in the Authority at the moment. I am also concerned that many have chosen to leave the authority. I believe that what we can and need to do on the political side – and what we need to take responsibility for – is to create stable conditions over time so that the staff know what is expected of the authority. The information I can give today is largely about what I said last week, namely that this continues to be a large and important authority. It will focus on the exercise of authority. The assessment of labour market policy will be even more important. It will be about monitoring and monitoring and analysing the future needs of the labour market and being able to adapt it to the realities that exist. For me, the most important thing is for this to work in practice. It must also be able to work in the locality. This is a time when many are concerned. There are many pieces of the puzzle that need to be put in place. I would, of course, like to ensure in my role that we now take the necessary steps to achieve orderly reform. I will also invite the social partners – both the trade unions, with whom I have a meeting at the agency this Friday, as well as employers, the disability movement and many other important actors who can come up with wise views on the different choices and issues on which we need to take a position.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-388	Madam President, I would like Now the Minister for Labour is here almost as his own Baghdad Bob for the parties included in the January agreement, if the parable is excused. Now the Minister stands here and claims that there is absolutely no problem. Everything is agreed – from the timetable to the model for changing the Public Employment Service. The timetable and the rest are also fixed. However, when I read through the statement by the Liberal Party leader – that is, one of the parties that entered into the January agreement – I was able to note that it was made clear that it did not believe in the timetable that the Minister for Labour has said should apply. It is also said that the model for this is totally unsustainable. It describes a chaotic reform process and great contradictions between the January parties. A representative of this party states that this is a full-scale experiment. There is no doubt that Arbetsförmedlingen is a dysfunctional authority that is in an extremely obvious need of change. Perhaps only Ali Esbati and his party do not realize it now. The Social Democrats have refused to see it for a long time but now realise it. When you do something, Madam President, you should do it well, but that is actually the last thing that is done here. When you are going to redo Arbetsförmedlingen in essence, it needs to be an orderly and thought-out change where you do everything at a manageable pace. You don't now. It also turns out that there is really no consensus at all between the four parties of the January agreement. Sweden is now on the verge of a declining economy, and we are seeing an increase in unemployment. It's not okay. The Moderates have long been clear that we need a changed and improved employment service. But we are saying no to the model on which the parties of the January agreement obviously do not agree. I note that the Labour Party's spokesperson has been extremely clear about the fact that the parties agree on this, that that is what they will do and that they will not deviate from it at all. I also note that there is another party in the form of the Liberals who do not buy this at all, especially the vision expressed here by the Minister for Labour and the ambitions they have had for Sweden's municipalities and their role in this. All of this has somehow fallen when we can take note of the Liberals' clarification that this is not being bought and that the timetable is not being bought. I can therefore continue to ask the Minister for Labour: is the January agreement still valid in its entirety, in particular the model for reform of the Public Employment Service chosen based on the LOV? Does the timetable laid down here and now by the Minister for Employment also apply, as she also stated at the press conference last week? I would appreciate an answer to that.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-398	Madam President, I would like It is regrettable that Mats Green among his perfectly reasonable questions is putting in some fog curtains about the Moderates' own position, for it has been more chaotic, no less than what the January Agreement leads to. The Moderates have had no idea what to do with Arbetsförmedlingen, only that it should be cut back on, and it has contributed to the situation that prevails at the agency now. It would be interesting to hear from the Minister for Labour whether there is any actual plan regarding the role that municipalities should play in a future structure with the Employment Service. But even more interesting would be to hear whether it is reasonable to continue to argue that the timetable announced should apply. If the fairly obvious timetable becomes difficult to keep and realise, is there any backup plan from the government to provide more funds or otherwise enable the Public Employment Service to carry out the tasks that the agency still has to carry out, while at the same time the chaotic relationship between the parties entered into in the January agreement needs to be clarified? It is not reasonable for the unemployed and employees of the Employment Service to take the cost of this disagreement.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-401	Madam President, I would like Mats Green says I'm pretending there's no problem. But that really wasn't what I said, Mats Green, but it was a description of a very tough situation at the agency. What I want to do as Minister for Labour is to take responsibility for having an orderly process in the future. It has been very fast with large cuts and the closure of offices. I myself have been in many municipalities and there met councillors who describe precisely the concern about what is happening and wonder how they can contribute to the work. I certainly have not pretended that there are no problems, rather the opposite. We got a report from the agency last Friday. Now we begin a work to sort out all the different types of analyses and issues that exist. We parties that have concluded the January agreement need to take joint responsibility for this. I may be a little conservative, if you may say so as a social democrat, but to me it is the agreements that we make in negotiations with each other that apply. And it is the meeting with the other parties and the discussions that we have that give direction to future policy. I cannot take into account various types of media play, but the timetable we have communicated and what I said at the press conference last week is still important. It is also a message to Ali Esbati, who is asking questions about the role of municipalities. So does Mats Green. What we want to do now is look at the legal conditions for municipalities to participate in such a new system. But we also want to look at how the municipalities can contribute during a temporary period if we have white spots in the country. For me as a Northern resident, a Social Democrat and a Minister for Labour, it is clear that this is a very important issue. We cannot find ourselves in a situation where we reform the Authority and do not have either services or presence. It is important now to ensure that the agency can really make its services available to job seekers but also to employers throughout the country, and this can be done in a little different ways. These are issues for which we must now take real responsibility. The reform will take place in an orderly manner. It's been very tough and turbulent. Now we do not need more political rhetoric about this, but now we need more political responsibility, and I really want to take that.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-408	Madam President, I would like Me and the Labour Minister can stand here and discuss who's the most conservative. I dare say that I may win in that very measure of strength. I would like to come back to the questions which I still want answered here and which I think are quite relevant. The Minister for Labour says that agreements should be kept, absolutely, pacta sunt servanda. But here it is clear that in the January agreements the parties to the agreement have completely different pictures of what the agreement looks like. I would also like to have one more comment. That everything would be peace and joy is probably no one here who has claimed, because it is very obvious to everyone that it is not so. The Public Employment Service has long had major problems. You can't do your mission and you haven't done it for a very long time. That is why there is a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament that the agency must be fundamentally changed. We Moderates say that we want fewer performers, long-termness and quality. That is why we reject the model based on the Freedom of Choice Act that the parties in the January Agreement are talking about, although I now note that some do not buy this. Once again, I would like to receive an answer to the question of the timetable that has been set. Liberals are now saying that there can be no question of a municipality being able to enter as a performer and compete with private performers. Liberals have been extremely clear about this in a letter to the government, not through the media. Then I would like to ask: Will it be so? Are the Liberals right about this?
i-1170d48021bb27fe-415	Madam President, I would like As I said before, I do not take a stand on various media games that I have not yet seen. In this case, it is above all the agreements that we parties behind the January agreement have reached that still apply to me. I can't judge every move. I have also not seen what happened during the day because I have worked, which we want all Swedes to be able to do every day. That is why labour market policy is so important. I would recommend that Mats Green take note of the fine work that many municipalities are doing in contributing to state labour market policy, thus complementing it. Many active Moderates in Östra Göinge and Växjö are very fine examples of what I think must be the starting point for all of us. The fact that we have an active labour market policy that helps employers to employ the skills they need to develop their businesses, that people can get support to get the right job and that together we make sure that it works locally and throughout the country is my starting point for this whole reform.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-418	Madam President, I would like Mats Green has asked me if I will work to ensure that the same rules apply for the development year as for all other students in Sweden regarding the requirement for reimbursement for discontinued or unfinished studies. Mats Green has also asked me whether the answer to the above question is no, whether I think it is fair to all the others who do not have their leave of study financed by the taxpayer, whether it is also subject to repayment obligations for discontinued or incomplete studies, and how it should be dealt with. As I replied to the interpellation on the importance of the development year for shortage occupations in this House on 4 October, the Government's proposal in the budget proposal for 2020 to introduce development time for up to one year is to be seen in the light of the rapidly increasing demands on the labour market and the lack of skills in several professions. The Government sees a need to contribute to raising the skills and adaptability of the labour force and to increasing labour market mobility. Work on the detailed design of the reform is ongoing within the Government Office.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-421	Madam President, I would like The background to my interpellation on the free year and the reimbursement of studies not completed is, of course, that the government has proposed, under the January agreement, the re-introduction of the free year in re-named form, now called a development year, at a cost of 1 billion. The initiative has been sawed by almost all the experts, institutes and consultation bodies. In times of escalating gang crime and insecurity, the parties in the January Agreement therefore choose to invest twice as much in the year of release as in the police. According to the Government, those who benefit from the free year should be able to study in order to develop their skills. Other students in society, who do not have paid leave from taxpayers, are referred to the study funding system and its rules for reimbursement in the event of interrupted or incomplete studies. It is against this background that I have asked the following questions to Minister of Labour Eva Nordmark: Will the same rules apply to the development year as to all other students in Sweden as regards the requirement for reimbursement for discontinued or incomplete studies, and, if the answer to this question is no, where is the fairness aspect vis-à-vis all others who do not receive their leave of study financed by the taxpayer and who, moreover, are also subject to repayment obligations for interrupted or incomplete studies? The Minister just claimed that the free year should be seen as a way to fill the recruitment needs of the shortage professions. A few weeks ago, therefore, I asked her in Parliament's pulpit whether she could give a single example of an education in a shortage profession that could be completed within the time frame for the year of development, i.e. at least three and a maximum of twelve months. The Minister for Labour could not then give a single example of this. Now we are standing here again, and Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark cannot answer the most obvious of questions, the one about justice, or rather injustice, against all of them, especially women and women on low incomes, who will never be able to be covered by the year of development. Instead, the Minister for Labour refers to a preparatory work in the Government Office. So when you ask about the justice of government proposals, the answer from the government is: please delay. Madam President, I would like So the free year or the development year, whatever one chooses to name it, is neither fair, righteous, effective nor effective in any way. However, I would just like to repeat my question to the Socialist Minister for Labour: where is the justice in this proposal?
i-1170d48021bb27fe-429	Madam President, I would like Mats Green claims that this is unfair and not appropriate. However, we have not yet seen the result. I am happy to receive input and ideas on how different efforts and initiatives that we make can be shaped to increase efficiency and contribute positively to the labour market – rather than finding out that it is not fair. We have not yet seen how the reform is to be formulated, because it is a work that is going on in the Government Office right now. As regards the issue of repayment obligations and the same rules as for other students, Mats Green is well aware that this work is under way. As I said, we are happy to receive input, and I can come back with answers when we get there. What kind of training can these be? Mats Green describes the situation of women. I myself am very committed to this because I believe that the path to equality goes through work and self-support. There are a number of possible training courses. One of these is training as a nurse. This is a package of 800 points that you can read in municipal adult education. It is a shortage profession where, after education, you can easily get a job. There are a lot of such examples. If you have trained as a nurse and want to move on to the assistant nurse, it is a professional package of 700 points. I see that we have great opportunities to find this type of training and increase the chance for people to make new career choices in life through education and training and to get closer to the labour market and get a job.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-433	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Labour states that the year of development is a fantastic idea that is good in every way. But when I ask the obvious question in what way it is good and fair, the answer is: We are happy to receive input, because we are currently thinking about this at the Government Office. Usually this is the basis for making proposals in the Swedish Parliament at all. But here it is said that it is a good proposal and will then try to show that it is good – when we can all say that it is definitely not good for anyone. I find it difficult to find someone in Sweden who thinks this is a good proposal, least of all the trade unions. Madam President, I would like Again, this is not fair – and the Minister for Labour knows that. It's not fair to those who work hard every day that someone else can take time off. It's not fair to those who don't even have a job to take off from. And, as we are discussing now, it is not fair to all those who have to take loans to finance their studies and who, in addition, have to pay back if they interrupt or do not complete their studies, those who cannot study without demands and at the expense of their working colleagues. These are the ones it's unfair to. This is counterproductive at all levels. When Eva Nordmark was chairman of the TCO, this proposal was dismissed and pointed out precisely the injustice that I am seeking today in vain. LO's first Vice-President, Therese Guovelin, noted that more than 700 000 people lack permanent jobs, many of them women, and they are left out of this proposal. She added: a person misses those who are insecure in the labour market. ..................................................... According to the government, there is a lack of money to cut care queues, raise police salaries and invest in school. At the same time, there is money for one year's leave and other allowances. In times of rising unemployment, this is the last thing that Sweden and those who do not have a job to go to at all need. There are no free years. There's always someone paying. It is not right that pensioners and employees should pay for some to leave work with the so-called development year, and that is above all not fair. I think there are very few of those who are listening to this debate today who think it is reasonable for them to get up and work every day so that someone else can take the day off. Madam President, I would like To be honest, this is a sour cream for a small group of people. When ordinary people are allowed to take student loans to educate themselves, a small group is left to dissipate at the expense of others. This is inequality and injustice at its worst, and it is tax-financed. Once again, Madam President, where is justice in this towards those who are allowed to take loans and who, if they do not pass or complete their studies, have to pay them back? And don't refer to an investigation!
i-1170d48021bb27fe-441	Madam President, I would like The development period is not about giving people paid leave, but about trying to help create incentives for greater labour market mobility. I see a labour market where change is fast, where we have about 500 000 jobs added to the economy, where as many or fewer jobs disappear each year and where jobs change at a rapid pace. The really big problem in the Swedish labour market today is the lack of the right skills, that is, the lack of people with the right skills for employers to recruit. This creates major problems for our companies, who have to say no to orders and who cannot hire the programmers they need to develop their business. A good quality of welfare cannot be ensured unless nurses, nurses or teachers are available to the extent necessary. The lack of labour with the right skills is thus the really big problem in the Swedish labour market. A number of stakeholders have pointed out that this gap is hampering employment and economic growth in Sweden. This is, therefore, a real problem. There are a number of measures that we need to take to increase labour market mobility. It is about creating an education and training offering that is more adapted to the needs of business and the labour market. This type of work is ongoing. We need to ensure that higher education institutions and universities can offer more flexible training courses adapted to the needs of employees. A few years ago, the Moderates decided at their meeting on a transition assignment to higher education institutions and universities. I would like to hear the Moderates talk much more about this, in order to promote the transition and mobility that is so important in the labour market and to ensure that there is a continued favourable structural change in which we maintain competitiveness and hence prosperity. Development time is a way of testing whether we can ensure that even more people move on to jobs where there is currently a shortage. One such example is to go from a nurse to a nurse, as I mentioned in my previous post. I believe that the policy must focus on creating these opportunities and not just focus on giving priority to those furthest from the labour market, although it is the priority of labour market policy and the Employment Service, which we have just discussed. It is also necessary to create the conditions for people in work to take the next step on their journey through working life. This is one way of promoting such a change.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-447	Madam President, I would like It says quite a lot about where the Social Democrats find themselves that a Socialist Minister, when I ask for justice, says that this must first be prepared in the Government Office. Okay. You talk about the importance of conversion. No one is opposed to the transition, Madam President, because that is what the labour market of the future requires. What I ask questions about is that everyone else, who also needs to change, the crushing majority, over 90%, is referring to the study aid system and other systems for this which have been created to promote conversion. Again: Here we are talking about people who take loans in order to do this and who have a requirement to repay the loans if they do not complete or cancel their studies. How, then, can one feel that it is strange to point out the deeply unjust and deeply unrighteousness of this? Why can not everyone be included in the study aid system that we once built to cover everyone? Instead, you choose to invest in an action that is not good for anyone. I repeat: listen to what the first Vice-President of LO says about this! She says that it hits the weakest, against women and against those who are not in the labour market at all – those who do not have a job to get off in the form of a development year or a free year. They're the ones it's hitting.
i-1170d48021bb27fe-451	Madam President, I would like There are many different types of measures and interventions that are important in the labour market. We are not just investing in development time, but we will be investing in intensive years next year for particularly motivated new arrivals. Starting jobs should be in place. We provide resources for additional services and labour market training. A wide range of labour market policies are important. These different types of actions are aimed at slightly different target groups. I cannot yet answer questions relating, for example, to repayment, because these are questions that are being prepared within the Government Office. But I can at least tell Mats Green that, as a social democrat, I do not want to waste any tax money, so there will be no question of that.
