i-262eae81ea6b37ba-2	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating the Enterprise Committee's report 9 and proposal 2018/ 19:40, which is basically about a technicality regarding the state's percentage ownership in Telia linked to the company's share repurchase program. But the big question, which has been raised in a follow-up motion from the Moderates and others, is whether the state should hold shares in Telia Company AB at all. The question of Telia is hardly a theoretical question, whether states can and should own telecom companies, but it is a concrete question: What will the Swedish state do in April 2019? How will the government handle its 37.3 percent of Telia Company AB at a time when we have found that external threats have increased? When, for example, Finland introduces new legislation that allows the state to intervene in property purchases and foreclosed properties and when other countries review the possibility of protecting itself against hostile foreign ownership, the Swedish parliament's collective right, on the contrary, proposes that Sweden should sell its shares in a company that owns sensitive infrastructure. Unfortunately, the Moderates in handling this matter have shown that they put ideology before pragmatism, ideology above economic rationality and ideology over national security. It is evident in several of the motions here in the Riksdag dealing with state ownership that Moderates do not, in principle, think that the state should own a company like Telia Company. This is ideologically conditioned. It has also been noted in the handling of this case. During the preparation, the wording has been tightened to the benefit of a clean sale. It is only when we Social Democrats have talked about the great risks of security policy that the tones have turned slightly in favour of division. It is important, it is right and it is necessary to oppose this type of ideologically motivated sales. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats are clear: The state should not sell its shares in Telia for the foreseeable future! For this there are several strong arguments. First of all, it's a bad deal. Telia gives a good dividend to its shareholders and generates billions to the Treasury. The starting point for state ownership in Telia is that it is and must be pragmatic. It benefits taxpayers, it benefits the Swedes, that the state remains as owner. Secondly, if you want to sell, the time is badly chosen. Even the Moderates write in their own motions that a sale should take place in a boom, but if the government today receives an announcement to investigate a sale, the risk is obvious that we may be selling in a coming recession. History has unfortunately shown that an ideological right here in Sweden is prepared to sell state-owned companies even in recession, even though our citizens are the losers. It would be both unfortunate and expensive. Thirdly, a reduction in State ownership in Telia is a security policy risk. The Swedish Armed Forces writes: a possible divestment of the Swedish state's ownership, in whole or in part, can, however, have serious consequences for activities that are significant for Sweden's security... The analysis carried out in 2008 revealed extensive risks with a sale of the Swedish state's ownership. ..................................................... I repeat, serious consequences. Extent of risks. Why do the Moderates, L, KD, C and SD want to risk something that could have serious consequences for Swedish security? Why do the Moderates, L, KD, C and SD want to expose Sweden to extensive risks? In fact, I do not understand it, Mr President. But, will you probably hear later in the debate, the government will only evaluate one sale. The answer to that is that this is actually the wrong way to go. A number of investigations are currently under way to strengthen Sweden's security. Why, then, does the Right want to carry out ideological sales that threaten security? But, says another, in Today's industry Telia's management wrote that ownership is not the key to security, but laws and rules. Here is the answer, of course, that we should also look at laws and rules. But when the Armed Forces say that this is a risk and their words stand against Telia's corporate management, at least I won't risk. We Social Democrats are not sloppy with national security. The Swedish citizens who are up here in the gallery or at home in front of television have to ask themselves: Should politicians in the Swedish Parliament really put ideology before national security? No, I think most people will answer. At least I do. As I said, there are at least three very strong reasons for voting against this announcement. Firstly, it is a bad deal; secondly, it is the wrong time and thirdly, it threatens national security. Mr President, I would like to A counter-argument that can also be heard in the debate is that if there are assets that there is a security risk of selling, the company can easily be shared and then sold. Don't fall for it, I say, because it's not that simple. It is far from clear what such a division of assets would look like and which infrastructure is sensitive, and above all this is a moving matter over time. And even if we knew, how would a division go about in practical terms? In fact, there are only two options. The first option means that Telia must be bought out of the stock exchange, which some investors have already received, which means that it is already more expensive than it should be today. It would cost 100, 150 or perhaps even 200 billion to buy out the remaining owners. Then you should split the company and sell the leftovers and thus risk getting only a fraction of the money back. It's not small money we're talking about; it's actually a whole Nuon deal. The second option means that, contrary to the strategy advocated by the company's management, the state should try to force through a sale and a division even though it is only a minority shareholder. This would go against the rest of Telia's owners – tens of thousands of Swedes. The outcome of such a strategy remains extremely unclear. For me, none of the two options are particularly attractive. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to endorse the proposal in the motion and reject the motions. I am opposed, most strongly, to a sale of Telia as it is a bad deal, the wrong time and a threat to national security.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-23	Mr President, I would like to On July 4, last year, the Swedish Democrats went out in the media and explained that we were strongly critical of Telia Company's purchase of Bonnier Broadcasting. We do not assess the commercial aspect of the purchase, but what the state has in its equity portfolio. Our view is, and remains, that Telia Company's telecommunications business is not a core business to which the government should be the owner. Already today, the State has indirect control over public service, which means that the State is in danger of being perceived as the sender of all terrestrial channels in practice. Telia Company and the acquisition of Bonnier Broadcasting clearly show why the state should not be the owner of listed companies. It is difficult to reconcile the specific requirements of the State for the company with the company's business strategy and obligation to deliver according to the economic objectives to its shareholders. Telia Company is primarily a listed and business-driven company. The Swedish Armed Forces have been involved in expressing their views on the bill. It states that as long as the Swedish state's share of ownership remains at least at today's level, i.e. 37.3 per cent, the Swedish Armed Forces considers that the Swedish state's ability to influence the company is maintained. What exactly is meant by influence or maintained is not clear, but the Swedish Armed Forces refers to a final report that was made in connection with proposal 2006/ 07:57. That report shows that the Security Act can be applied if there is a reason to do so. However, for this law to be in practice, Telia Company's head office must be located in Sweden. Therefore, it is somewhat surprising that several bourgeois parties during the previous term of office exercised annually about selling out their shareholding in Telia without taking this fact into account. Furthermore, the Swedish Armed Forces' report states that the Swedish Armed Forces believe that a change in ownership of TeliaSonera AB – provided that the necessary measures to ensure the security interests of the Swedish Armed Forces are taken – is feasible from a security perspective. This is the position of the Swedish Democrats. It is the task of the Riksdag to ensure that democracy and healthy competition prevail in Sweden. Therefore, our entry point is that the state as a major shareholder will work to ensure that Telia Company is divided up according to the part that is important for security policy and telecommunications. The state should then have full control over the important part of security policy and sell out its share in the telecom business. Mr President, I would like to In the last month we have received comments from both members of the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Industry and Industry and from ministers. All of them address the fact that Telia Company handles security-policy sensitive infrastructure. One can really wonder how the state, which owned the Televerket to 100 percent, has ended up in this situation. In June it is 19 years since the then Social Democratic government under pomp and listed Telia. Unfortunately, we can see that the Social Democratic Government then made a big mistake when it did not separate and retain the sensitive infrastructure before the listing. According to us, the fact that nearly 500,000 shareholders in Telia Company will be affected by the government's possible ownership role in Bonnier Broadcasting or security policy commitments is anything but desirable. It is also difficult to understand, for me, who have been part of the Riksdag for less than seven months, that Sweden's security policy sensitive infrastructure lies in a listed, multinatial company that is more than 60 percent owned by others than the state. This is what the Swedish Democrats want to change through the division I mentioned earlier. It is gratifying that several parties are drawing closer to our approach and that the Committee on Defence also wants to examine in its opinion various solutions which, in the long term, provide greater security for the activities that are sensitive to society. It is therefore high time that we politicians together took real responsibility for the current situation in order to strengthen Sweden's control over the security policy sensitive infrastructure. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to endorse reservation 2 in the report.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-31	Mr President, I would like to We are debating report NU9 on Telia. As regards the repurchase program of shares in Telia Company AB, we have a unanimous proposal for a resolution from the committee. But now to the question of the future and what state ownership should look like for Telia. I have said earlier in this House that the state should not own or, for that matter, dispose of ownership of companies or parts of companies for ideological reasons. It should also apply to Telia, I claim. I cannot understand the arguments of the bourgeoisie and the Swedish democrats that it is so important to make an announcement about selling out Telia now that there is really a lot going on in digitalisation. There is no evidence that state ownership would hamper the development of digitalisation. As far as the future acquisition of Bonnier Broadcasting AB is concerned, no one thinks that it is good if the state gets more control over large parts of the media, especially the television medium. But the hand at heart, it's about a listed company in which the state is a minority shareholder. In addition, the purchase is still subject to scrutiny from a competition point of view in the European Commission. Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that if there had been a signal that Bonnier is about to sell to some foreign company that has good reputation, according to the Swedish Enterprise, the Swedish Democrats or the bourgeois parties would not have said a word. However, I should not be surprised at the citizens' view of state ownership, regardless of what it could contribute to our common interest. The creditors have always argued for decades that the State should in principle not own companies operating in the commercial market with effective competition. But it is always ensured that the private capitalists will be able to behave as much as possible, both in terms of companies in the welfare sector and in sectors where the state could be a stabiliser in the fluctuations and instead contribute to more social benefits. I simply do not understand why it would be dangerous for the state to be a minority shareholder in a company that develops tomorrow's digital world and at the same time contributes to security in important infrastructure. Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Defence has clearly been concerned with the dangers of the sale. There has been some progress in this debate. And remember that it was a united committee that made the call! I am not going to read out the opinion of the Committee on Defence, but I sincerely hope that their view of the sales spirit is taken seriously. I cannot help but make a connection with what happens when bourgeois politicians get the chance to sell out government property. It starts with something innocent, but the basic idea is all the time to dispose of everything just the opportunity. The profit can well be distributed as tax cuts to the most wealthy. The fact that some companies are not to be sold depends entirely on the view of society; it can be sensitive to take that debate. Otherwise, there would be no problem whatsoever in disposing of all government property on which anyone else could profit. Mr President, I would like to Working competition is usually used by bourgeois politicians as key words. Is it effective competition when selling profitable routes on a railway but leaving society to stand for the unprofitable? The idea and practice was for decades that the profitable parts would pay for and help with the unprofitable. But the unprofitable could be so important to society. The same applies to pharmacies. The profitable parts should pay for the less profitable and those far away from the money-rich neighborhoods where the beauty halls are located on the pharmacy shelves in each and every other block. Do I need to give more examples of effective competition? I can mention schools that are established in prosperous rich areas and where unprofitable students are expelled because the drive would be too expensive with these. Then you cannot distribute two-digit dividends as a percentage to the owners who have established themselves in the so-called functioning competition. That the money that pays for this should be enough for school in rural areas, you don't care. Where it becomes too expensive for the municipality to keep the school, students are forced to travel 20 miles [60 km] one way to school. Our common money is distributed in this way because of the functioning of competition and the liberalisation of the market – all in order for some to be able to shoe themselves. It is more important for the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats. Another example of effective competition is venture capital companies that want to establish themselves in health care at all costs. They must be interested in health care and that it will be better for everyone. That's got to be it, right? Yes, new health centers have been opened up. But where? In any case, do not come and say that rural health care has improved with liberalisation and that care is given to those who need it most at the moment. No, you guys! Anyone with insurance and a large wallet will do better in the system created by the market. Mr President, I would like to I know this isn't directly connected to Telia. However, I would say that single market or competition has not always been enough to decide on liberalisation or disposal. It has not always benefited society, at least not in the broad context. I am convinced that the functioning of the market has never, or very rarely, contributed to more equality between people or parts of the country. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of S, V and MP's joint reservation 1.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-47	Mr President, I would like to A lot should be heard before your ears fall off, for example: I am not sure that the Swedes who remember the previous term of office and the biggest security political failure in modern times are prepared to fully endorse that statement of reality. And barely could this term begin before we had a similar problem on the Swedish power grid. It is simply a statement that does not stand in the way of trial against reality. Today we are debating a proposal for a buy-back programme. There is a great deal of agreement in this area. What I intend to dwell on in the debate is the follow-up motions that have led us to propose an announcement to the government. As far as we are concerned, this is about addressing two problems that the government I know just keeps ducking for. One is the problem with Telia, in the absence of governance from the government, trying to buy Bonnier Broadcasting, which would make Telia the owner of TV4. This, in turn, would give the state a very dominant role in the media market. During the entire last term of office and as late as yesterday in Today's industry, the government has been maligned that it would be a very bad deal. But the government has done nothing, such as Telia's owner, to stop the deal. You do not use the influence that the Social Democrats want to assert that you have over Telia. You don't even appoint board representatives. The government would like to point out that the problem exists. But you are never really interested in addressing the problem. The first question to the government parties in this House is: what do you want to do about the problem of the forthcoming affair of Bonnier Broadcasting? The deal is likely to go through. The only thing we are waiting for is the European Commission's statement, that is, whether they approve it from a competition law point of view. And if so, what is the Social Democratic answer to the question? The second problem is the security policy aspect. Then we should go back and take the history lesson that can be important in this context: that it was actually Göran Persson and his government that originally sold out Telia. I wonder how the Social Democrats came to the conclusion that just 37 1⁄2% will be the total guarantor that the state can protect these security-sensitive systems. The state is currently a minority shareholder of Telia. And it was the Social Democratic government that took that line by selling out Telia. The analysis of the security policy aspect would, of course, have been carried out then. It wasn't made. We have reason to do that now. What we are proposing, and which the House will decide later today, is simply that the government should be forced to investigate the conditions for examining the possibility of divesting the commercial part. On the other hand, we have control over the security-sensitive systems over which minority shareholders can hardly be said to be fully advised today. That is the second and security policy problem. In that part too, the Social Democrats have not provided an answer to how they intend to deal with the situation instead. Mr President, I would like to There is much reference to the opinion that the Swedish Armed Forces have made to the Committee on Defence and then the opinion that the Committee on Defence has made to the Committee on Industry. There it is said that it may pose a safety risk. Yes, of course it could be a security risk if you just sold Telia straight up and down! That is why we want the government to be given the task of making the search that has not been done. What you often choose to refer to is the investigation that the Swedish Armed Forces did in 2008, but there was the question what would happen if we sold Telia straight off. That is not the subject of today's discussion. To conclude, I cannot help but draw a little on the smilbands when Mathias Tegnér refers to Finland as an example in this context, Mr President. Finland thus sold its share of Telia without any security policy analysis at all. It may well exemplify that in this context one may not be so valiant to make an international look. Instead, one should actually look at the security-sensitive systems that exist in Sweden today. It concerns both infrastructure and system services. Having said that, Mr President, I would like to support the proposal of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and at the same time take the opportunity to send a question to the Social Democrats from here. How do we intend to address these two issues which, I am sure, have not even been addressed so far?
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-58	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Bohlin for his speech. It was interesting and powerful. Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin refers to Göran Persson's government selling out Telia. I would like to ask him, Mr President, how the Moderates stood in that part when state companies began to be divested. I hope that was opposed by the fact that it is now being pointed out that it was a social democratic government that started with the sales. I have another question for Mr Bohlin. When you have done wrong once, should you continue to do wrong? Is it perhaps time to look at whether it was so wise to sell – or stock market – first and foremost Telia, or should you try to make the best of the situation?
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-61	Mr President, I would like to I have full respect for the fact that Birger Lahti and I have different points of departure regarding what is right and what is wrong in this context. It is not an unknown fact that the Left Party thinks it is wrong to sell Telia, while our starting point is simply another. So the answer to Birger Lahti's question is: No, we were not against selling out Telia. What I was trying to point out in my speech was that the analysis should of course have been done there and then. Then it would have been possible to separate any security sensitive infrastructure rather than a tt try to argue that with 37% ownership, these systems are still fully advised. The fact that the state still has full control of these systems is, in my world, an argument from the Social Democracy that is limping. My point was therefore simply that the analysis should of course have been made from the beginning, when Telia was incorporated and this infrastructure – which was then under Televerket – passed over to Telia's ownership. This analysis was obviously not carried out, and we want to deal with this problem with the follow-up motion we have given and to give the government the task of investigating how we can gain better control of security-sensitive systems while at the same time avoiding the creation of a dominant media player. That is the starting point, that is to say that we should solve two problems at the same time.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-64	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answers, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin! As for the analysis you are pointing to, I wonder if the Moderates as a party made a request for this to be analysed before selling. If I may guess, the sale of government property is always the most important thing for the Moderates to sell. When it comes to the sensitive part of Telia that the Swedish Armed Forces point out, it is not a question of not having control over it today. What the Swedish Armed Forces are pointing out is that selling out is sensitive and not at all good. With regard to the media company Bonnier Broadcasting, I would like to ask about the view of the Moderates, Mr President. Would you have reacted at all if it had been a foreign company with good reputation at the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise that was going to buy a terrestrial television broadcaster in Sweden?
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-67	Mr President, I would like to Birger Lahti and I have completely different points of departure on this issue. I think we'll just have to respect that. We believe that a particular intrinsic value should be required for the state to be a market participant. The intrinsic value can be a security policy aspect or a specific social mission. However, we believe that there is no intrinsic value in the state becoming a dominant player in the media market. On the contrary, we think that would be very damaging. What the Swedish Armed Forces are saying is that they want continued advice on these systems, but the Swedish Armed Forces have not done any new analysis since 2008. Then they looked at the question what happens if we sell Telia straight off to an unknown owner, and it is clear that there are concerns related to it. That's why we want to give the government a new investigation mission.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-70	Mr President, I would like to I believe that, in the light of Mr Bohlin's speech, times are changing. I think that Birger Lahti made it very clear that two errors are not going to be right. I highlighted Finland as an example, which also shows exactly what I am trying to bring forward – that times are changing. It is true that Finland today wishes that it had handled its sales in a different way than it did. Today, however, – it is not 19 or 25 years ago, but we are in April 2019 – and what Finland is doing in April 2019 is managing its legislation and changing it in order to protect itself against threats that exist today. What surprises me, however, is how the Moderates have turned during the handling of this matter. Of course, it is gratifying that we Social Democrats have realised what we have been pointing to all along, namely, what incredibly great security risks it means to sell Telia Company AB only. You only have to look at the moderate movements here in Parliament to see how moderates view ownership in Telia. One imagines that it would be easy to sell Telia Company AB. Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin says that you don't imagine Telia being sold straight up and down, but is that really true? Is that really what the Moderates' motions say, and is that really how they have argued in committee? This has even led SD to drop out of the joint reservation, precisely because it was about to sell Telia straight up and down.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-74	Mr President, I would like to I do not know if I understood any very clear question in Mathias Tegnér's first line, but let me start by saying this: No, two errors do not make a right, but two errors are still two wrongs if you do nothing about it. That is a little the point of my main speech, Mr President, that is, there are two problems in this. The Social Democrats seem to recognise at least one of the problems, namely the state's dominant influence on the media market and the problem of buying Bonnier Broadcasting. The question then remains: Given that the Social Democrats do not want to do anything about it, what is the solution? What is the solution to the problem of the dominant role in the media market that the state will in all likelihood assume? How do you solve that problem? The second thing I want to say is that it is not a question of selling Telia tomorrow. This is an investigation mission to the government. If Mr Tegnér had read the report, he would have seen that the report does not alter the previous parliamentary decision requiring a special authorisation from the Riksdag for the divestment of Telia shares. So before Telia is sold, this issue will have to be debated and decided in this House one more time. I look forward to doing so when the government has fulfilled its mission, namely to investigate this from A to Z. But the problem remains. There are two errors, to use Mathias Tegnér's analogy, and the government has no proposals to fix those errors. We do, however, have this report.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-78	Mr President, I would like to How do we intend to address the issue of Bonnier Broadcasting? I don't think there were many in the government who jumped even with happiness. At least it was not in the Socialist parliamentary group. We can certainly agree here; it is clear that this is one of the problems. Since Telia Company is listed on the stock exchange, you have to think a little bit about how to handle that kind of situation. That is why I think it is a reasonable order to first see if the purchase goes through and then act to deal with the problem, which is exactly what the government has done. However, I do not think it is obvious, although I have read the report – thank you very much for your concern, Mr Bohlin – that what we are going to do now is give the government a mandate to prepare a sale of Telia. It is positive that the Moderates have turned during the course of the case and gone from sales straight up and down to evaluation of the effects of a sale. But it would be exciting to hear from Mr Bohlin which of the two roads you imagine. Is it the idea of an expense for the state of 100, 150 or perhaps 200 billion, or is it the solution where the shareholders currently in Telia are allowed to pay for the party? There I would just like to hear an idea of how the Moderates view the issue. For us Social Democrats, security policy is absolutely the most important thing. Therefore, I find it remarkable to vote through the announcement when the Armed Forces speak as they do.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-81	Mr President, I would like to The problem with the social democratic reasoning is that it is not connected. Two lines of argument are being pursued in parallel. On the one hand, we argue that we have no control over this Bonnier affair, as we are just a passive owner who has no control over a listed company. On the other hand, it argues that the reason why we should maintain the current regime is that we should have control over the security-sensitive systems and the security-sensitive infrastructure in place in the company. You have to decide on a line. Either you have control over Telia, and then it is the government that in the absence of action has allowed this Bonnier Broadcasting affair to happen. It is critical of it in the media, but no one has tried to prevent it in their corporate governance. That's when you fall short in that part. Or you don't have control of the company, which you're trying to claim. Then we have a problem linked to the security policy aspect, that is, the state does not exercise the influence it ought to have on this infrastructure. This is, as it were, the crux of the matter with regard to this problem. We are trying to solve both of these aspects by giving this mission to the government. But the Social Democrats are not delivering any answers to what they want to do instead to get out of this precarious situation.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-84	Mr President, I would like to Now it feels almost like the unit comes in after the rock band has played. Nor can I fail to quote Mathias Tegnér. He'll have to put up with being a little popular in this Chamber today. I, too, reacted strongly when Mathias Tegnér said that the Social Democrats do not risk national security. Of course I feel that it's strong. Sure, I note that the Social Democrats are concerned that a sale of Telia could pose a risk to national security. It is, of course, reasonable to take these aspects into account. However, there are many of us who wish that the Social Democrats had been equally interested in security before distributing the Transport Agency's database to people with military backgrounds of foreign power. It can also be thought of. Mr President, I would like to To return to today's topic, I would like to say that the Center Party supports the bill, where the government is given the opportunity to change the state's ownership in Telia within the framework of the repurchase program of shares that the company intends to implement. I share the opinion of the Board of Directors of Telia that the repurchase program is good for the long-term value development of shareholders. We also agree with the committee's announcement to the government that it will carry out a review of the possibilities for the state to eventually divest its ownership in Telia. Like the committee, the Center Party wishes to emphasise that such a review should include a careful analysis of what measures can and need to be taken in terms of ownership and management of the social infrastructure in the company – this in order to ensure fair competition while safeguarding national security. The Government will then return to the Riksdag with a statement of the conclusions reached in the review. Mr President, I would like to The security situation in the world has changed in recent years. We have seen that foreign companies strongly linked to some states have tried to buy strategic infrastructure in other countries and also in Sweden, which obviously jeopardises our total defence capabilities. As colleagues have said here in the speaker's chair, the Committee on Defence has given an opinion on the question of a possible sale of the State's stake in Telia Company. It confirms how important it is to take into account any strategic motives that may be behind certain foreign investments, for example in Swedish infrastructure. It is estimated that a possible divestment of the State's share in Telia or a reduced holding must be preceded by a thorough risk and impact assessment. It does not therefore say no to a sale, but it makes the assessment that there is a safety risk and that this needs to be preceded by a deeper analysis. In his speech, Mathias Tegnér made it seem more like saying no and that it is already clear – that was my experience. Of course there's a risk, but it's not clear. And it is not the Social Democrats who do that analysis – it should be an expert group. The Center Party, like the committee, believes that it is important that a disclaimer of the state's share in Telia Company be made only after the government has carried out this thorough analysis of what measures can and need to be taken in terms of ownership and management of the social infrastructure that exists in the company. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I would like to say that it is strange that the Social Democrats are so high on the issue, when everyone agrees that the security policy aspect should be taken into account. When one claims that the bourgeois parties put ideology before national security, I think it is somewhat exaggerated. That, in my opinion, is actually nonsense and not an honest way of arguing.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-93	Mr President, I would like to It is not always allowed to be a star in the Chamber. I guess I'll just have to thank you for that. Of course you can discuss the tone. My view is that the tone is due to the fact that the issue is very important. I maintain my attitude towards this whole discussion, but, of course, in the future I will be prepared to change my mind. If you look at motions from Members of this House and the initial debate in the committee, it was a very ideological discussion about why you should sell Telia. When we have discussed security aspects in the course of the matter, they have also come more on the agenda. That's good. I am pleased that several bourgeois parties have turned and are now talking about national security when they have previously only talked about one sale. That is the reason for the tone that Mrs Lindahl thinks is high. When it comes to the Swedish Armed Forces and their analysis, I still see that it is very clear. I quote again: a possible divestment of the Swedish State's ownership, in whole or in part, may, however, have serious consequences for activities that are significant for Sweden's security... The analysis carried out in 2008 revealed significant risks with a sale of the Swedish State's ownership share. ..................................................... I also believe – but there, if I am wrong, may Mrs Lindahl correct me – that this was one of the reasons why the former bourgeois government changed its view on the question of whether Telia should be sold. Finally, I cannot help but reflect on the issues linked to the Swedish Transport Agency. It was certainly the case that the whole process was started with an ideological sale of public assets.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-98	Mr President, I would like to Mathias Tegnér is quite right that the issue is very important and not least the security policy aspect. We all agree on that. But what strikes me is not that it is an ideological discussion. It's been all these years. It is not that it is a direct secret that bourgeois parties are interested in selling certain state companies. On the other hand, I find it strange that Mathias Tegnér makes it sound like this with security policy aspects is something that the Social Democrats have had in their back pocket all the time when it comes to Telia, because that is not true. I have now been on the Industry Committee for two terms of office. I have had the privilege of debating with former Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg on the issues of state enterprises. Not once has he addressed the security policy aspect of Telia in this speaker's chair. On the other hand, he has focused on the ideological part. This issue of security policy, Mathias Tegnér, came up at the same time as the Social Democrats realised that the Swedish Democrats would support the bourgeois parties. Then there was speed during the galoshes, and then this argument came forth. It is a good thing that it came out and that we also got an opinion from the Swedish Armed Forces. But do not say that this is something that the Social Democrats have claimed to be the time, because that is not true!
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-101	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Lindahl. The honourable Member has the advantage of being able to make an exposé about how the debate has been in the Committee on Economic Affairs for several years. I don't have that opportunity. I can only try to make an exposé about what has happened in recent months when this discussion has taken place in committee. That has been exactly the way the honourable Member emphasises it. The debate from the whole bourgeoisie has had its starting point in ideological sales. Then, when we have raised security policy aspects in a number of ways, that issue has been put on the agenda. It is just as Mrs Lindahl himself confirms. In recent years, the discussion has not concerned security policy. It is reasonable that when we do things that the Armed Forces express is crucial to our security policy, it should be in the first place. I simply cannot relate to the debate that has been here for a number of years. I can only say that, since this issue has security policy aspects, it is important that we discuss them. What I do not understand is why we do not start with the security policy aspects and think about: How can we make Sweden as safe as possible? How can we ensure that Sweden is resistant to foreign power? Instead, we start with an ideological conception from the bourgeois parties, which states that the state should not own a company like Telia. It's stupid, it's expensive, it's dangerous.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-105	Mr President, I would like to I write so the pen glows. I have full respect for the fact that Mr Tegnér has not been part of the debates that we in the Committee on Economic Affairs have had in this House in the past. However, I know that Mathias Tegnér has been part of the Riksdag and its parliamentary group. You probably had discussions there about state companies and possible security policy aspects of Telia. At least Mikael Damberg should have informed your parliamentary group if he thought it was very topical. No one in here has claimed anything but that the security policy aspect should take precedence. That is also why we are basing ourselves on it and allowing the government, through experts, to analyse the security policy situation. That is exactly what the Armed Forces recommend us to do. The difference, Mathias Tegnér, is that we let experts do so, not that we let the Social Democrats do it through speeches in this House.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-107	Mr President, I would like to In this case, a buy-back program for Telia Company AB is being considered for an opportunity for the government to expand the government's ownership – temporarily – in Telia. We are in favour of this proposal. At the same time, together with the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals, we want the government to investigate the possibilities for the state to eventually divest its ownership in Telia. Companies operating in a competitive market should be operated and owned by private operators as long as there are no specific social interests to be protected. We Christian Democrats have long been in favour of a sale of Telia. But this presupposes that the state analyses the consequences of ending state ownership from more perspectives. With some companies controlling important infrastructure that can be used against Sweden's interests, a security policy perspective is important in the analysis. Telia is such a company. Mr President, I would like to A sale of government ownership in Telia should therefore be made after a thorough analysis that takes into account, among other things, the state's need for communication infrastructure and other security aspects. Here the state needs to ensure that sensitive infrastructure is collected and that the state has stable ownership in the sensitive infrastructure for Sweden. Today, the state has 37.3 percent ownership of Telia and no representation on the board. This means that the State is largely a passive owner without any operational influence over the operation. The state can at best put forward proposals for general meetings and hopes to have an impact on its will. This also means that, despite its ownership, the State has little control over the sensitive infrastructure. From this perspective, it is strange that the government parties promptly say no to investigating this part. Is it really optimal from a safety point of view that such infrastructure is maintained in the structure in which it is currently located? These are further aspects of why we Christian Democrats believe that ownership and structure need to be reviewed and to – if possible – pool sensitive and security-rated infrastructure in companies and dispose of the remaining ownership. Mr President, I would like to The bottom line is that we Christian Democrats want to divest those parts of Telia that have increased state influence in the media market if Telia completes the acquisition of Bonnier Broadcasting and therefore TV4. Therefore, we urge the Government to review the possibilities of divesting the State's ownership in Telia. However, before this is done, it should be ensured that important, sensitive and security-rated infrastructure is retained in the ownership of the State.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-113	Mr President, I would like to Today, among other things, we are debating why it is time to end the divorce between the state and Telia Company AB. The opponents of this issue, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party, would argue that our position is ideological. They want to claim that we do not take responsibility for national security, and they want to claim that it is a bad deal to divest Telia Company AB. Mr President, I would like to I'm gonna break their myths. In a well-functioning market economy, the state makes laws, makes decisions on taxes and carries out government duties. If, at the same time, the State competes with private companies on the market, the roles are mixed together. We can conclude that Telia operates in a commercial competitive market, and they do not have a specifically decided mission to society. In addition, based on Telia's planned acquisition of the media company Bonnier Broadcasting AB, which owns TV4, I can conclude that this has consequences for the state in other areas. The Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party should also be concerned about this development. Is this an ideological decision? The answer to that question is no. This is a sound and responsible decision. Mr President, I would like to We have heard the opponents today suggesting that we do not take responsibility for Swedish security policy. When the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party now use this card, the fact that the state only owns 37 percent of the shares – we are minority shareholders – should be the main cause of concern. Who owns the rest? Now neither we, the Swedish Armed Forces nor, for that matter, Telia know what or what any assets are of strategic value. There is knowledge, but there is no answer to the question. In any case, this issue should have been more topical almost 20 years ago when Telia was listed and the government sold most of its shares. Would today's decision to divest the state's ownership in Telia jeopardise Sweden's security, as the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party and the Left Party claim? Rather, it is through regulations and legislation that national security interests are safeguarded, and not through ownership. That is even what Telia's management says in a debate article in Today's industry. I'm willing to agree. I would also like to refer to Mr Tegnér's report from the Swedish Armed Forces in 2008. It is true that they highlight the security policy aspects, but they also say in their assessment that sales are possible given certain measures. In any case, let me be very clear. Before the end of the divorce between the state and Telia, a thorough impact assessment should be carried out that also takes into account security policy aspects and ensures that sales do not have negative safety policy consequences. So we are all in complete agreement. Mr President, I would like to We take responsibility. Any sale or assignment of socially critical infrastructure shall be preceded by detailed impact assessments. In the media, we have heard Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan say – and we have also heard Mr Tegnér say this in this House – that the sale would mean a loss deal for the state of about 3 billion annually in the form of a loss of dividends. What the Minister probably forgets is that a sale of the holding is worth about 70 billion. With a little bit of easy mathematics, I can see that if the market were to last and the rate of return on the second would continue, the value of the state's holdings, that is, 70 billion, is what the return will give for the next 23 years. This is therefore the case if the market persists and if the rate of return continues. Let me therefore remind the Social Democrats and all the other opponents that money today is better than money tomorrow. It is a very simple basic rule. In addition, the state should not be a gambler with taxpayers' money. It's irresponsible behavior. Mr President, I would like to Is today's decision ideological? No, it's a responsible decision. Do we take responsibility for Swedish security policy? Yes, we very much do. Is this a bad deal? No, on the contrary. I'll tell you again, money today is better than money tomorrow. In addition, a divestment must be carried out at a time when, based on an overall assessment, it can be assumed to produce the most commercial outcome. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a declaration and for the proposal on the buy-back programme. I also call for all reservations to be rejected. It is time that we now end the prolonged divorce between the state and Telia.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-128	Mr President and Mr Teimouri! I'm afraid you may have to answer for your entire group, but since you were last, I have to ask these questions. The honourable Member says that it is not an ideological question to sell all government involvement in Telia. I would like to ask Mrs Teimouri: what would you like to see these EUR 70 billion falling into the treasury used for? What happened during your reign was that you sold government property for 60 billion, and they were intended to be used to pay off the public debt. But what happened in the future was that there was a recession, and you continued to distribute the money to the most wealthy Swedes through tax cuts. When you finished your government mission, it was about 60 billion in debt. You talk about this 70 billion and say that money is better today than it is tomorrow. What is your idea of what the money should be used for? That's the first thing. Mr President, I would like to I have one more question. In what way does the honourable Member see that the state ownership of Telia would hamper the development of the digital future that we have? You in the bourgeois parties usually say in your motions that the return should reflect the risks and the capital that is tied up. I claim that the state receives this from Telia. You're saying it's not connected with ideological reasons that you want to dispose. But in what way does it hamper the development that the state is part of the owners and that we get a return that well fills what is usually said to be covered for risk-taking and capital that is tied in?
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-131	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Birger Lahti, for the questions. We have completely different opinions about what the state should own and not own. I think we can both fully agree that Telia has no particular community mission. They operate in a commercially exposed market. In addition, the State is a minority shareholder in Telia. We have no power over what they do or do not do. Nor do we have any power over what is happening on the stock exchange. Having said that, I will come back to what I have said about money being better today than money tomorrow. We should not gag with taxpayers' money; it is hard-earned money that has come into the state. What we will then make of the money from the sale remains to be seen. I think Mr Lahti also agrees that there are large parts, such as health care, which would need a supplement. We have the LSS question, which we have lifted and driven. There is much you can do with this money. On the other hand, they should not be in a company that we cannot control and which, moreover, has no decided social mission. That's what we think is wrong, and that's why we think we should divest Telia.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-135	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Arman Teimouri, for the answers so far! You're saying that if these 70 billion were to fall in, there's certainly a need in the care. I'd be very happy if I could trust this if it were your party, Arman Teimouri, who ruled the country. But with the facts in hand, we see that you are handing out money in tax cuts to the most wealthy. Mr President, I would like to I'd feel safer if we talked about social investment or something like that. In fact, Mr President, I get the chills when I think about how the money is spent if these parties come to power. As I said, in what way does it hamper the development of the digital future that we are owners? You're saying we shouldn't gag with our money. I agree. I am aware that Telia has evolved after getting away from bad business abroad. I think you have a good eye on the future. When we visited Telia we were told that there is much in the pipeline that would be great for the digital development in our country Sweden. In what way does it hamper our participation as owners? We receive dividends for our risk-taking and from the capital tied up there. You said it's not for ideological reasons you want to sell. However, I still maintain that it is only for ideological reasons.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-140	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again, Mr Lahti. Here's the thing: What you're saying about dividends is true, but it's still the case that money today is better than money tomorrow. I believe that the amount that the sale would bring to the state is more important than any future returns, because we know nothing about them. You're asking if it would hamper development if we were owners of Telia. It may not, but we're not in charge of it either. Telia is a commercial company where we have no governance. We're minority owners. We do not know what direction the company will have in the future or what direction it has today. We were not even able to influence whether or not to buy Bonnier Broadcasting AB. Nor will we be able to take part in the development issues that they will pursue in the future. Of course it does not hamper development, but we are not in charge of it either, for that matter.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-142	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Armed Forces have, on behalf of the Government, reported their assessment of the consequences of a sale of the Swedish state's shareholding in Telia Company AB. ... In an open description of the previous report to the government on this issue, the Swedish Armed Forces have pointed out that a divestment of the Swedish state's ownership, in whole or in part, may have serious consequences for activities that are significant for Sweden's security. The Swedish Armed Forces believe that such a decision should therefore be preceded by a deep impact assessment of the risks and consequences of a sale in which FRA, Säpo, MSB and others. authorities are given the opportunity to express their views on the matter. According to the Authority's description, the analysis carried out in 2008 showed that there were significant risks associated with the sale of the State's shareholding. In the above-mentioned opinion, the Swedish Armed Forces points to risks in terms of the state's continued access and protection of critical services and Telia's ability to protect classified information after a sale. The Swedish Armed Forces' assessment is that the risks have not been reduced and that a renewed and in-depth analysis should be carried out. ..................................................... This is one of several aspects of why we should not sell out Telia. It is a matter of national security – an issue that has become more important over the years in the digital world. We have an ongoing digitalization of society where many of our social functions today are digital. Do you understand the power that's in it? We have more examples, very serious ones. For example, the Moderates brought up some. These are the things that have happened because the safety aspects have not been properly considered, and this is simply a question of procurement. The Swedish Transport Agency procured the IT operation, and sensitive data ended up in servers across half of Europe. As I said, this is purely procurement. Telia is not only operating but also infrastructure and development. Unfortunately, the ideological sale by the right of everything the state is called continues. It is then overlooked that major changes that reach all parts of society, such as digitalisation or other emerging technologies, will not be borne by smaller companies. A larger, reliable player is needed there. Once we sell out Telia, it will not come back into the state's ownership, and just as in other sales of state-owned companies, we will see that it will change the focus. Apoteken started selling cosmetics to maximize profits, and of course they invested in urban areas instead of sparsely populated areas, because there is no community interest. I agree when the right says Telia is listed. If we want the state to have more influence in order to meet the security missions and drive forward the digitisation process, I welcome that proposal from the right. By selling out Telia we do not know whether it will be divided into more companies or what interest the owners have in Sweden. None of the sales carried out by the right has led to an improvement in the final product or service. This applies to pharmacies, the sale of the electricity grid and the opening up of the state's railways to competition. The right now wants to add Telia to that list.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-151	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating procedural matters, and I would like to start by calling for the approval of reservations 13, 18 and 19. The motions that have come in to the Committee on Justice are about everything from camera surveillance to witness protection. I am pleased that so many exercises have been written on the subject. The question of how best to combat crime deserves commitment and hard work because it is a crucial issue for the future for all of us. Where violence is allowed to triumph, victims of crime have scars for life and families are destroyed. But crime affects so many more than just those who are legally considered victims. Maybe the convenience store is forced to close after robbery and blackmail. Maybe the car insurance premium goes up after repeated car fires in the area. Maybe buses stop walking after they've been attacked with stone. It is a terrible injustice that those who live in a certain part of a city should be more vulnerable to crime than those who live in another part of the same city. Those of us who live in particularly vulnerable areas deserve the support of the whole of society. This, if anything, is a question of justice for us Social Democrats. And there is something to be done about this injustice. With determination, we can push back crime. Look at Södertälje – a city that was recently marked by serious organised crime. Now the school results are turning upwards, and the police have broken the Södertälje network. Now the gang leader shakes bars. Södertälje is now heading in the right direction. Residents feel more secure, and criminal pressure is weaker. Södertälje shows that preventive action, combined with strong action by the police and the judiciary against the criminal networks, bears fruit. We are working hard in the Committee on Justice to do what we can to contribute to positive developments. During this and last parliamentary term, the government has submitted well over 100 proposals in our area. Everything from arms amnesty to sharpened penalties for weapons crimes has been put through in Parliament. Now that we are investing heavily in the police, it is also important that the police can work as efficiently as possible. We should therefore not make it difficult for the police to make priorities in their work. We should retain the possibility of pre-trial restrictions, which is why we Social Democrats have chosen to reserve ourselves against the proposal to review and limit the police's possibilities to the necessary priorities. Camera monitoring is an important tool for preventing and clearing crime. On 1 August 2018, the new Camera Surveillance Act entered into force. The purpose of the new law was, among other things, to improve the ability to use camera surveillance. An important step for us to sharpen the tools against crime was then taken, but more can and must be done. The police must be given better, faster and easier opportunities to use camera surveillance. But cameras in all honor, we need people to testify and tell us what they've seen in order for us to have a functioning justice. It is about people of flesh and blood who give their stories, which give the courts the opportunity to judge on responsibility. Here, too, the government has been very active. As late as 14 March this year, the Government submitted to the Riksdag the bill "Strengthening order and security in court". In the bill there are suggestions for greater opportunity to give testimony through video and better opportunity to reject audiences to the side room of order and security. The criminal gangs want to challenge Sweden. They want to shake us to the ground, but we must not be tempted to give in. Legal certainty is a central part of our democracy. That is not the way to start sacrificing parts of the rule of law in the fight against crime. We should therefore reject exercise that sets out that path. In addition to being a foreign bird in Swedish law, anonymous witnesses have a risk of becoming ineffective because question marks can be raised about the value to be attributed to them in a trial. After court proceedings, I know how our independent courts view witness certificates, where testimony is given in writing. Anonymous witnesses are the wrong focus in the debate. It gives false hopes and takes place at the expense of legal certainty. Neither are Crown Witnesses a way forward. So it is criminals who are given incentives, in the form of lower penalties, to provide information in court. It is a powerful measure in legislation and words, but in practice it risks being completely toothless when the testimony is to be valued by the court. What we need now is not strong expression and wording, but smart and effective measures that really break crime. We must have justice through a judicial system that can give victims redress, full protection of witnesses and rightful punishment of criminals through legal safeguards.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-164	Mr President, I would like to The uncertainty continues to be high levels in society. 28 percent say that they are very or quite insecure when outdoors late in the evening in their own residential area. Concern over crime has increased over time. What we call shootings, which should actually be called executions, has increased. Last year, 45 people were executed by shootings. It's more than any other year. A total of 306 shootings took place in Sweden last year. It may be added that Sweden stands out in terms of shootings and the number of hand grenades used – in a European perspective. The clearance rate for gang killings and shootings is very low. The police think it's hard to get people to talk to the police because they're afraid of reprisals. Breaking the rough and organized gang crime is a priority for the Moderates. We have pushed to bring about higher penalties, including for weapons crimes, so that more people will be behind bars and kept away from our streets. It is now time to take the next step to combat organised crime. We know that the police have problems getting people to testify and that the clearance rate is low. Sweden therefore needs to investigate the possibility of introducing a Crown Witness system but also the possibility of anonymous testimony in the event of organised crime. A Crown Witness system means the possibility of a lower penalty for a person convicted of a crime, provided that he or she participates in an investigation of other persons' crime. It could create incentives for people involved in criminal gangs to testify against the leaders. This will enable people to be reached higher up in the criminal hierarchy. The Moderates and the majority of the Committee on Justice see the need to investigate unconditionally the possibility of anonymity in court in the event of serious crime. Examples of persons who could be the subject of anonymous testimony are police scouts and those who by accident have witnessed a criminal settlement. You might ask yourself, ‘ Would you testify if you accidentally witnessed a criminal settlement? ' There is the possibility of anonymous testimony in Norway, for example. The European Court of Human Rights has also approved this, provided that these are special circumstances. Mr President, I would like to The gang's criminality Dr. Abbs those who live in Sweden's 61 vulnerable areas extra hard. Nearly 70 per cent of those living in remote areas say that there are criminals or groupings that have an impact on the area in some respect. Combating gangs is therefore a matter of justice. Would we tolerate 70 percent of the residents of Östermalm saying that they experienced criminal gangs affecting their territory? Against this background, it is very sad that the Social Democratic-led government does not support strong measures to crack gang crime. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates and the Committee on Justice have also supported the strengthening of witness protection and the revision of the rules on pre-trial restrictions. The Moderates want as many crimes as possible to be investigated and lead to conviction without investigation, no conviction. That is why the proposal to revise the rules on pre-trial restrictions is important. However, the fact that the Riksdag announces something to the Government is no guarantee that the Government actually implements what the Riksdag wants. The Swedish Parliament has twice addressed announcements to the Government about this by removing the permit requirement for the police in camera surveillance – once in December 2017 and once in June 2018. Here comes another one. It is serious that the government ignores Parliament's will in this way. In fact, it is time to abolish the police's permit requirement in camera surveillance. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have some reservations about the matter. For example, we want to lower the threshold for compulsory detention from the minimum sentence of two years' imprisonment to one year's imprisonment. Then more serious criminals will quickly get out of our streets. The Moderates also believe that the Security Service should have access to secret data readings and that the police should be able to use secret coercive measures in more cases than is happening today. Finally, we have a reservation regarding Swedish accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, Eppo. Sweden is one of the few countries that have not joined Eppo. In addition to Sweden, only Poland and Hungary do not participate. Some types of cross-border crime require deeper and more operational law enforcement cooperation than we have had in the past. The EU has major problems with international terrorism and organised cross-border crime. It is high time that Sweden took a more active role in restoring security in Europe. Mr President, I would like to The motion for a resolution shows that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has several proposals for measures to crack down on serious and organised crime. The government says no to all the proposals. Proposals that Parliament has already asked the government to implement delay the government to introduce. It is clear that the government has lost its initiative in combating crime. It is, of course, positive that the Moderates and the Committee on Justice are running the government ahead of them. But the government's inability to deliver legislative proposals to crack serious organised crime affects Sweden. Mr President, I would like to We in the Moderates obviously support all our reservations, but for time winning I only ask for reservation 23.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-181	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 8. We live at a time when crime is increasing in our country. The violence is spreading. Gunshots are becoming more common, and organized crime has beaten its claws throughout residential areas. It is also a time when insecurity is increasing in people in general. More and more people say that they feel insecure when they are in some parts of the city at night and when it is dark outside. The developments in both of these areas are very worrying and something that we must take very seriously. Several measures need to be taken to reverse developments, and one of them is, of course, that we need more policemen in the streets and squares, something that most people in here now agree on. We need to provide resources to the police, but not only there, but also to other parts of the judiciary: the Public Prosecutor's Office, the courts and other things. We need to work with stricter penalties in some cases in order to lock up those who have committed these crimes and keep people who in different ways hurt others away from innocent citizens. We need to work preventively much more than we do and in different ways and at an earlier stage try to prevent young people from falling into crime. However, we also need to review the powers of the police and the other judicial authorities. We must ensure that the judiciary has more effective tools to prosecute crime in different ways. The report we are discussing today contains a number of such proposals that we will announce to the government. One of them is the abolition of the requirement for permission for camera surveillance. You want to make it easier for the police to use camera surveillance. That is something very positive, because it means increased security. We can see this in a number of studies, where people say that they feel safer if there is a camera in the public place where they are to stay, especially at night and night. It is also something that many times makes it easier for the police to investigate crimes. For example, if there is video material that makes it possible to tie an offender to a crime, it is something that facilitates the investigation and increases the chance of a punishment being imposed. It is also something that works preventively in the sense that many crimes may not be committed if the offender discovers that there is a camera in place. You just don't want to be filmed when you commit a crime. So there are many advantages to this, and we think it is positive that we are now announcing this to the government. Mr President, I would like to The tougher climate is also reflected in the increasing number of threats and violence against those who wish to testify in court. This is particularly true in the wake of organised crime. This has led us to believe that it is right now to go forward and investigate the possibility of anonymous testimony. This is particularly true in matters relating to organised crime, where people may simply not have the courage to tell us what they have seen or heard if they cannot do so anonymously. There is, of course, a back door and risks of anonymous testimony, and that is something that needs to be sorted out so that there is a balanced regulation on this and so that one tries to avoid the problems that anonymous testimony can cause. But it is probably a tool that can be effective in the fight against organised crime. The same applies to Crown Witnesses, Mr President. This is something that exists in many other countries and has proved effective in tackling organised crime in various ways. This means that a person can tell us what has happened and, for example, indicate former accomplices or others who have been in some way in the past in the context of organised crime. By doing this, you get some kind of advantage yourself, like a penalty discount or something else. This may be an incentive to actually tackle organised crime. It is also properly used, we believe, Mr President, a tool that will be useful to the judiciary in trying to reverse the trend of the spread of organised crime. Mr President, I would like to So there are a number of proposals in this report that are positive steps in the right direction. We're happy with that. These are proposals that the Swedish Democrats have been pushing for a long time and for which we are now hearing in a way that we are naturally satisfied with, although we would have liked to go further. We would have liked to see further proposals and to give the judiciary additional tools and powers, not least in relation to counter-terrorism and terrorist offences. That is what we will continue to pursue in the future. We will continue to work to curb organised crime and the increase in crime in Sweden in various ways. We will be the party that ensures that it is at the forefront when it comes to giving the judiciary the tools needed to prosecute crime and to increase security in Sweden.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-198	Mr President, I would like to The security of our country is an extremely topical issue and, in many ways and in many parts of the country, presents a major societal challenge. In this debate it is a question of combining new strong measures with a great deal of legal certainty. Last week we had a discussion on the Legal Aid Directive and the importance of defending robust measures against crime, while safeguarding the rule of law and thus confidence in the judiciary, which is crucial in this important and difficult societal challenge. In order to increase perceived and real security while strengthening confidence in the judiciary, it is important that society is able to respond effectively to both serious crime and everyday crime. The Center Party believes that it is important to increase the police's ability and willingness to investigate and clear up both the amount of crime and everyday crime. There are clear indications that prosecutors are currently using pre-trial restrictions to an excessive extent. One can get the impression that it has been perceived in several places as an obligation rather than an opportunity to restrict the preliminary investigations. That is why it is important to follow up the regulatory framework on the restriction of investigations and its application, which today leads to unnecessary closure of criminal investigations. The Center Party therefore wants the rules on pre-trial restrictions to be reviewed in order for more crimes to be investigated. This would be good for reducing both the amount of crime and everyday crime. Combating serious organised crime, which unfortunately exists throughout our country, is an extremely important issue. A crucial part of this is to be able to carry out legal proceedings in an effective and legally secure manner. Therefore, efforts on the whole judiciary are crucial for us to be able to respond effectively and effectively to today's crime. An extremely important part of the fight against serious organised crime is the willingness of witnesses and, above all, the courage to participate in judicial proceedings. That is why it is very good that there is a broad majority in the committee to look further at further measures to strengthen the protection of witnesses. It is to be hoped that this will lead to more solved crimes in the field of serious organised crime. We note that work is still ongoing in several places to improve the safety and security of witnesses and others who appear before the courts in order for more people to want and dare to testify. From a legal certainty perspective, however, the Center Party believes that anonymous witnesses are the wrong way to go. Mr President, I would like to We in the Center Party are, of course, behind all of our reservations. I commend the reservations of 18 and 19.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-206	Mr President, I would like to It is a major problem that more and more Witnesses do not dare to testify in court. From having dared to say in police questioning what has happened, the step to witnessing in front of a court, before persons who have committed terrible crimes, can be great and frightening. Then it is understandable that not everyone dares to testify. It's understandable, but it's not good. And that is a problem that needs to be solved. Therefore, the Left Party proposes that a new and modernised witness protection programme be developed. The program will take care of rescue witnesses, as well as former criminals, who, by telling the police crucial tasks, may be exposed to threats. Persons working in, for example, the judiciary or the police can also be included in the programme. With the help of a personal security program, so-called evidence persons can get help with, among other things, secret-protected fictitious personal data and personal protection. What concerns me is that bourgeois and conservative parties want to investigate the use of anonymous witnesses and Crown Witnesses. I have doubts about the investigations. This is partly because anonymous witnesses under the ECHR are never allowed as principal evidence and partly from a legal certainty perspective. If a witness cannot be questioned by the defender, and the defence cannot even know who is testifying, the entire Swedish legal system will be eroded. From the perspective of the fear that a witness can express against testifying, and also the prosecutor's perspective of wanting to prosecute and convict a person for crime, I can understand the desire to introduce anonymous witnesses. But that is not the solution. There are problems that must be solved for these witnesses, but I do not believe in this solution. That is precisely why the Left Party is instead proposing that we modernise and extend witness protection by means of a new witness protection programme. There are an enormous number of measures that can be taken before taking action with anonymous witnesses. I think we should try those measures first. Mr President, I would like to What I cannot understand either is the high tone of Moderates in the debate we had last week on the legal aid directive. According to the Moderates, it was unthinkable that a prosecutor could appoint a public defender, even though it was a person in custody who had the right to a public defender, and that if the prosecutor could not appoint a defender, the person in custody would not have a public defender for hours at all. There, on the one hand, the rule of law is very important to the Moderates, but on the other hand, the rule of law regarding anonymous witnesses and crown witnesses is something that the Moderates easily wave away. What's it gonna be? Is the rule of law important to the Moderates, or is it even more important to be opposition to the government and whip the government? Believe me! I also whip the government, but in my party's politics there is also a integrity and a priority of what is important. There, legal certainty always comes first – and that a person suspected of a crime should receive a public defender regardless of the time of day. Mr President, I would like to People who have seen crimes don't dare testify. It is a major problem that needs to be resolved. This is not done by means of ill-considered suggestions about anonymous witnesses or Crown Witnesses. I am afraid that this will not solve anything at all because the supposed burden of proof for these witnesses will not be taken into equal consideration in the legal process and in the event of a conviction. This is a typically bad way of legislating. Let's not do that. I'm in favour of reservation 20.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-215	Mr President, I would like to I am a little tired of attacks by the left-wing parties on moderate politics that stand up for us to put criminals behind bars. Then the left parties say that the Moderates do not stand up for the rule of law. It is remarkable to debate at a level where it is claimed that Sweden's second largest party does not stand up for the rule of law. Linda Westerlund Snecker believes that the proposal to investigate anonymous witnesses and Crown Witness systems is an ill-considered legislative proposal. The whole point of the proposal is that it is not a legislative proposal, but a proposal to investigate the possibility of introducing anonymous witnesses and Crown Witness systems. When you throw yourself away with the threat of legal certainty, as a serious party, you have to ask yourself whether Norway is not a legally secure country. So our neighbouring neighbouring country, Norway, has no legal certainty because they have the system in place. Then you have to be honest and say that Norway is not that country that upholds the rule of law. If you are accused of crimes in Norway, you cannot expect a fair trial because of the rules that are there. It's a dishonest way of arguing. As regards the protection of legal certainty on the issue of the legal aid directive in the previous report, that is, that prosecutors should not be allowed to appoint public defenders, the question is reversed. Why don't you protect the rule of law there?
i-9DMr7xicwXQRVJD8X7zocP	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Louise Meijer, for your question! What concerns me is that the rule of law for the Moderates is in fact always the same as locking people up – point. It is the definition of legal certainty that the Moderates have leaned on more and more. It worries me. Legal certainty is very important, and I do not claim in any way that Norway is not a legally secure country. But there are many things here in Norway, and here I really want to raise a finger of warning to Louise Meijer : V i should not follow. It is a question of anonymous witnesses, of crown witnesses, of the right-wing parties that are being admitted to the government, that it is foolish to cooperate with xenophobic and racist parties, as the Moderates do over and over again in announcements in the Committee on Justice. It is a bad way to work if you believe in the rule of law. I'm thinking the Moderates are in a confused period right now. You don't know which way to lean. Perhaps that is why Louise Meijer, when she talks about vulnerable areas and organised crime, mentions Östermalm. I'd like you to talk more about Östermalm. I would like you to talk about the major economic crime in areas where the economy is going really well and the population has a high standard of living. I would like the Moderates to talk more about the widespread use of drugs in other areas that I think Louise Meijer knows, namely Lidingö and Danderyd. We should talk more about these areas, because there is also a major challenge to crack, namely organised economic crime. But there the Moderates are often silent. I would like to hear how organised crime in Östermalm is broken.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-222	Mr President, I would like to I think Linda Snecker is right to worry less about the Moderates and more about her own government now taking away the defense tax. I certainly know Lidingö and Östermalm, but I also know Hermodsdal and Rosengård outside Malmö. The statistics show that 70% of the population are concerned about criminals or criminal groups. Then why do the left parties not want to investigate the question of anonymous testimony and Crown Witness systems? These are proposals that could lead us to break organised crime and bring down the extremely serious figures that show that people in particularly vulnerable areas do not feel safe. This is an unacceptable policy. As far as Norway is concerned, you can of course pick the raisins out of the cake and say that there are examples of politics in Norway that you do not want here. At the same time, it can be said that Norway is partly outside the EU, and to do so is a proposal which the Left Party very much shares. So, from a political point of view, we can draw up the examples we want. But the fact remains that Norway is a legally secure country and has these systems in place. We also have a European Court of Justice that thinks this is okay to introduce. Why, then, do the left-wing parties refuse to investigate unconditionally anonymous testimony and Crown Witness systems that can help to crack organized crime?
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-228	Mr President, I would like to I'll answer the question. We're really bad at doing that in Parliament. The Left Party does not believe that we need to investigate this because investigations often lead to legislative proposals. An investigation is the first step towards actually introducing something. We believe that anonymous witnesses and Crown witnesses do not have the legal status in a legal process that we believe they should have. I also don't think we should believe that just because witnesses are allowed to remain anonymous, we're going to frame the main character of the gang as you described in your speech, Louise Meijer. We know that organised crime no longer exists. They're not bikers with a leader and some minions. Right now we have organised crime, which consists of very loose networks. Loyalities change from day to day, and it's hard to even see who's the leader and who isn't. That is why we should not make investigative proposals that will not help in the judicial process. It was a brief summary of everything I said for five minutes in the speaker's chair. Let's put our hand out to each other, Louise Meijer! Let's get rid of the defense tax! Our party leaders did not get it when they had such lines shifts as we have now that the government is going to remove the defense tax and are doing a lot of nonsense. But it's not your government, it's not my government. In fact, we have the opportunity to remove the government, so let us do so! Let us simply remove stupid bourgeois ideas about the defense tax by dismissing the Löfven! That would be a good solution to this problem, as you and I both see.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-233	Mr President, I would like to Christian-democratic justice policy is based on the realization of human imperfection. Crime has always been and will always occur. A functioning judicial society requires that those who break the law be prosecuted and punished. It is important to protect law-abiding, to restore victims and to maintain a signal system about what is right and what is wrong, but also to enable the offender to pay for his crime. Man is a moral being who is always responsible for dealing with what is right and what is wrong. Justice is about how to act in relation to your fellow human beings. Justice is a fundamental value which, in a community of society, requires a balance between the interests, rights and obligations of all people. This balance of justice is disturbed when a person commits a crime and does wrong. It is then the public's task to do justice and restore balance as far as possible. Mr President, I would like to In the area we are now debating, procedural matters, a majority in the Committee on Justice has supported five announcements on measures to further strengthen the fight against crime in Sweden.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-238	中 to remove the licensing obligation for the Police Authority's camera surveillance a review of the regulatory framework for the restriction of investigations 中 that a system of Crown Witnesses should be investigated A system in which witnesses may be anonymous should be investigated 中 that further steps should be taken to strengthen the protection of witnesses. These measures and investigations are, in my view, proposals that support the work of the police and the judiciary against crime and gang crime in Sweden. We Christian Democrats support all these proposed measures, but in this speech I would like to highlight in particular the proposals concerning anonymous witnesses and crown witnesses. Mr President, I would like to Today, the Riksdag can follow the committee's majority decision and decide to allow anonymous witnesses and Crown Witnesses. I see this as an important step towards stepping up the fight against organised crime. In addition to the major efforts we are making on the police, where we have political agreement that more police are needed, more tools are needed to fight crime. Witnessing is a social duty in Sweden, but more and more people choose never to make themselves known. As the fear of witnessing spreads, we as politicians and as a society can not just watch. We must act to enable more criminals to be framed. We need to restore confidence in the justice system's ability to crack the gangs. A majority in the Committee on Justice proposes to investigate a system of anonymous witnesses and Crown Witnesses. The Christian Democrats, the Moderates, the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats have jointly supported this proposal. Unfortunately, the proposal is opposed to the Social Democrats, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Center Party. In advance, it appears that the proposal will fall with a single vote in today's vote, but if one or two more Members side with the victims of crime, it will mean that the proposal will win a majority here in Parliament as well. As early as 2000, the then National Police Board wrote that a system of anonymous witnesses should be considered in view of the development of serious organised crime at the time. After nearly 20 years, few claim that progress has gone in the right direction. On the contrary, since then time has been marked by increasing insecurity and violence. According to the 2017 police report on particularly vulnerable areas, these areas are characterised by systematic threats and acts of violence against witnesses. This makes it difficult or almost impossible for the police to do their job. Threats to witnesses are not an abstract phenomenon but a reality in today's Sweden. Unfortunately, there are a number of examples. In February 2018, a bomb detonated outside a house in Staffanstorp. The house belonged to a family who testified against a gang-criminal. In January 2017, a man and his wife were murdered in their home in the Raspberry Mountains. The man had testified in a trial where a man was convicted of murder. Six weeks after the conviction, the double murder occurred. Two minor children were orphaned because their father had done his social duty. Testimonies are an important cornerstone of our legal system, but they are challenged by criminal elements in society that want to establish parallel legal structures and stop individual trials. The Crime Prevention Council has also drawn attention to the phenomenon and that it is a problem. There are examples of systems of anonymous witnesses in countries in our vicinity. In Denmark, Norway and the Netherlands, it is possible to have anonymous testimony in certain exceptional situations. The possibility is also approved by the European Court of Human Rights, given that these are special circumstances. The threat to legal certainty is therefore not of the importance mentioned in the previous debate. The possibility to testify anonymously in certain specific types of criminal proceedings should be examined in Sweden. For example, it can be when there are serious threats from gangs – and threats from gangs is a reality in Sweden today. We Christian Democrats have long argued in favour of investigating a system of anonymous witnesses. It is therefore positive that a majority in the committee has found agreement in the proposals to investigate systems of anonymous witnesses and Crown witnesses. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased with the decision of the Committee on Justice. That is why I hope that later today the Parliament will determine these important steps in order to extend the possibility of prosecuting persons who have committed serious crimes by daring to testify without experiencing threats or being subjected to undue pressure. In the vote in Parliament, all parties have the opportunity to show their support for this proposal. I hope that we will get the parliamentary majority on an investigation – not an implementation – to see how systems of anonymous witnesses and Crown witnesses can be implemented. I see this as an important step to better face today's growing serious and gang-related crime.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-259	Mr President, I would like to The issue of the fight against crime is important, because crime destroys people's lives. People's lives are being curtailed, and dreams of freedom are being crushed. It does not just happen at random, but we know that the most vulnerable people are most affected. That is why we in the Liberals tend to point out that measures to reduce and repress crime are among the most important social policy reforms that can be made, with enormous accuracy. Madam President, I would like We are now going to talk about procedural law – the rules and rules of procedure that apply to the law enforcement authorities, not least the police. It is about what tools you can use when you look at and when you have suspects and what rules apply when people are to be arrested, arrested and perhaps later arrested if there has been sufficient evidence that a person is strongly suspected. But it's also about how to proceed with the investigation, what conditions should apply for one to storm into someone's home and do a search, for example, on how to allow prosecution and what to use in court proceedings. What Witnesses will be allowed to conduct themselves, and how will we care for Witnesses? It is a chain, one might say, of considerations as we do. It's about the tools we have. It does not help that, as we Liberals are very pleased about, we now have a way forward towards 10 000 new police workers to reduce crime and increase security if they do not have effective tools. They must be able to access the tools, and it must be effective. The considerations made in the Committee on Justice and in our constitution are about the tools that can be used and that can restrict our freedom. Anyone here, or up in the gallery, can be picked up by the police if there's any suspicion. In the case of such measures, there must be a need and a purpose, and the measures must be proportionate to the seriousness of the act. If you are suspected of committing mass murder, harder tools can be used than if you are suspected of petty theft. There are, Madam President, a number of things that I think are worth mentioning and which are important for the Liberals. I want to add something to the picture that we're in a tough position. There are people who engage in crime for purely social reasons. You may have fallen into addiction, or you are young, have drifted, engage in a lot of misery and harm your life for yourself and others at furious speed. We will remedy this. However, the big picture is about all these serious crimes being committed and about gangs that turn their backs on respect for other people and for purely economic reasons engage in quite cynically committing very serious crimes, not infrequently murder. That's why it's important that we get on with camera surveillance. It's a reconnaissance method, and cameras can never replace police. But it can be a good tool, and that is why we Liberals welcome the fact that we are about to come up with a regulatory framework that will allow the police to use cameras without permission to fight crime. Here we have made a journey in this House for the last 20 years, and today we recognise the importance of the cameras. But it's not straightforward. It must be balanced against integrity, and so far we Liberals think it has happened. We welcome this. When it comes to coercive measures, it is the really sharp and tough tools that are used in very serious crimes. We look forward to soon, on a proposal from the government, legislation on clandestine data reading to be able to disrupt, monitor and destroy even more effectively the serious, not infrequently cross-border, networks in Europe that are engaged in serious crime. The same applies to the data storage framework in order to produce the evidence necessary to convict people who commit crimes. We have a digitalised society, as you know, and a lot of digitalisation is linked to rather unpleasant crime that is taking place digitally. We, the Liberals, would like to highlight Amendment No 17, to which I, by the way, ask, Madam President, for approval. It's about our RACs. When a person is prosecuted and comes to court, there will be judges there. It is extremely doubtful to have people there – politically appointed RACs who may have political missions, i.e. friends of us in here – who come up with sitting and sleeping and who even talk in the night cap before trial so that trials have to be re-examined. Their contribution to the law is highly questionable. We very rarely have laymen in other professional activities. For example, if I'm going to operate on the foot of an orthopedist, I don't want it to be Johan Forssell from the Moderates who is standing there with the knife, but I'd rather it be a doctor with an education. We are therefore in favour of reservation 17. We welcome the fact that we have a majority on pre-trial restrictions. People affected by crime find it difficult to understand that the crime is not investigated and clarified. When someone has stolen my car or broken into my house or my summer house, it does not lead to investigation and clarification. I'm missing my redress, you might say. This is linked to criminal law, which we will have to discuss in another context. It does not lead to any reasonable punishment. We will have to come back to this. For the Liberals, it is clear that you should have a discount if you have behaved, not if you have committed many crimes. It's a very strange system. We think that this matter with Crown Witnesses and anonymous witnesses is reasonable to investigate. We have heard arguments that this would be legally insecure. Under the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights, this is permitted and there is a practice developed by the Council of Europe for when it may be used as reinforced and complementary evidence in the case of serious crimes. This is not the solution to all crime, but it is a small addition to the toolbox that is necessary and does not contradict what we in the committee and the Liberals also welcome: greater protection for witnesses. As Ingemar Kihlström said before me, there is today a deadly risk of witnessing. When people see this, it is clear that they are not keen to witness a shooting they have seen, at the risk of being killed. Then it is better to use anonymous witnesses, for the alternative is often silent witnesses or no witnesses at all. Finally, Madam President, we Liberals would like to emphasise the issue of European cooperation. We are facing an election to the European Parliament. Crime is boundless. We must ensure that at European level, within the European Union, we cooperate more effectively between prosecutors. We have cooperation in the police field through Europol, where Sweden participates fully. The same must be done on the prosecution's side in order for us to destroy the serious international crime networks that are also ravaging Sweden. Madam President, I would like We in the Liberals support all our reservations, but for the spirit of time, I only call for reservation No 17.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-277	Madam President, I would like We have heard here during the debate some different approaches to the report on procedural matters. There are some interesting tracks. Like many of the previous debaters, I intend to focus mainly on the parts relating to Crown Witnesses and anonymous witnesses. Serious crime is a widespread social problem. It destroys, on the one hand, young boys who are sucked into criminal gangs instead of going to school, and, on the other hand, people who just want to live their lives in peace with jobs, family and friends. It also destroys business and too much confidence in the future. It must therefore be countered at all levels of prevention and social action, but also with greater police and judicial capacity. That people should dare and want to testify is crucial for criminals to be convicted. Anonymous witnesses and Crown Witnesses are something that may seem urgent, as several have highlighted, because the idea is that more people should dare to testify. But, Madam President, it is a proposal with which there are very great risks. In this context, it is also important to highlight possible negative consequences. Kronwitness means that someone who is also a criminal can get a penalty discount if you cooperate with the police and get others convicted. It can be felt by the judiciary that it is accepting this way of opening negotiations with criminals, and there is a great risk of doing so. How reliable are the testimony? Will the bargaining power of the criminal have an impact on what punishment is then given, and what does that mean by extension of confidence in the judiciary? The government statement included that a system of Crown Witnesses should be investigated in an unconditional investigation. As well as possible benefits to be reviewed, the risks involved need to be clearly reviewed. Madam President, I would like It appears from previous debaters that those behind the announcements still mean a little different things. Certainly, at the end of the speech, the Christian Democrats' representative stressed that this was an investigation, but at the beginning of the speech he felt that today we had the chance to carry this out. The Moderates were also convinced that this is something to be done. Snarly question like the one about the Crown Witnesses is the question of anonymous testimony. It is quite natural that people who witness something may be very uncomfortable about witnessing; it is very easy to understand that. However, legal certainty requires that if a person witnesses something, he should have the opportunity to question it in order to identify the circumstances behind it and whether there are incentives for the unknowable witness. Madam President, I would like Steps have been taken to strengthen, among other things, the Witnesses'vulnerable position, and more action needs to be taken. You can think about the penalties for abuse in legal matters but also the possibility of witnessing via video link and other things. Finally, Madam President, we must keep on record that Hermodsdal and Rosengård are not outside Malmö. These are areas located in Malmö.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-286	Madam President, I would like I feel somewhat obliged to extend the debate a little further, although I was not initially on the list of speakers. In this debate, which I think has been very good, it has emerged that the Swedish Democrats have contributed to announcements regarding the investigation of anonymous witnesses and the investigation of the Crown Witness system, among other things. These are issues that the Swedish Democrats alone have debated, exercised and formed opinion on during the last parliamentary term and that we have had several parties with us on over the years. What surprises me somewhat in this debate is that our Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson in the election movement went out and spoke about Crown Witnesses as one of the important elements of law enforcement. Crown witnesses would be a new power of action on the part of the government to combat serious organised crime. It was also an election issue for the Social Democrats in the run-up to the 2014 elections. Now nothing was done on the part of the government during the entire previous term of office with regard to Crown Witnesses, despite the fact that elections were held on it in 2014. The question now arises as to why we are making announcements about what is included in the government declaration. Perhaps it is because the Social Democrats have promised things before the elections and then did nothing for a full term of office when they had government power. Now they go to elections again to introduce the Crown Witness system in Sweden. And now we hear from the government parties, the Environmental Party and the Social Democrats through Gustaf Lantz, that the disadvantages of a Crown Witness system outweigh the benefits. It has even reserved for a majority committee in the case of Crown Witnesses, even though it was elected. I think it is remarkable and would almost like a change of line here with Gustaf Lantz, who says that they are essentially against a Crown Witness system, despite the fact that they have gone to elections and promised the voters that in the government declaration. Thus, the reservation states that the system of Crown Witnesses will be investigated unconditionally, but the reservation states that the disadvantages outweigh the benefits. How often has it happened, Madam President, that a proposal has been made for something to say beforehand that the disadvantages outweigh the benefits? I think that the government should be a little more humble in the future when we in the opposition are making announcements about things that the government says are already being investigated. Madam President, I would like There is reason for our concern that things that Social Democrats promise in election movements then do not happen.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-294	Madam President, I would like Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, We will now discuss problems with young offenders. It's not really a fun area, but it's an even more important area. We have in Sweden today, unfortunately, not only extensive but also growing problems with both crime and insecurity. I believe that insecurity affects a great many people in our country, perhaps women in particular. The other day it emerged that 44 percent of all women in Sweden in 2019 feel insecure in the evenings in their own residential area, where they live. Even there we now see that almost every other woman experiences insecurity. Of course, it is not just a problem for the individual, but it erodes confidence in the whole rule of law in Sweden. Unfortunately, we also see increased insecurity in the public space. It is no longer the case that the problems of threats, robberies and violence only affect people in certain areas, something that is in itself so bad, but they spread in our society and are in the public sphere in a completely different way than before. The problems have increased markedly. We also see, as this report deals with, how the problem is spreading further and further down the ages. In today's Sweden you are not young if you commit crimes when you are between 18 and 21 years old, but we see offenders who, when they turn 15, are hard-skinned criminals and have a long criminal career behind them. When I talk to people in social services or the police, they testify that a career in crime in Sweden can start in the 12 to 13 years of age, and then it continues. Of course, it's very serious. There is much that needs to be done to deal with this. It is about early and clear efforts to prevent the problems from being pushed forward. When someone who starts their crime career at 12 – 13 years has turned 15 years old and no one has stopped and you have not received the support and help you need or have had to take the consequences needed to create a better future, it is unfortunately, not always but too many times, difficult to deal with the problems. Then it is easy that crime continues to roll on. The price for this is paid not only by the victims but also by those who commit these acts and neither receive the support nor take the consequences they need to create a better future. I would like to state that the government we have today does not see the scale of these problems and is even less able to deal with them. I see a pattern in area by area where one either says something that one then does not do – as we heard in the previous debate and is probably so interesting – or where what is actually done everything that is usually delayed and if it even becomes clear and presented is inadequate. It's problematic. Fortunately, we have a different situation in the Committee on Justice. We have a majority which, in areas by area, operates the government. I hope it will continue, because these are urgent problems. I note that when the Swedish people themselves rank the question they see as most important in Sweden in 2019, they put security issues first, and it obliges us who are politically elected. Madam President, I would like Let me point out two issues in the report which I think are a little extra important. One is about the evidence. Children under 15 years of age are not brought to justice in the same way as older people. This may be justified, but there is also a problem. If these crimes are not even investigated, it will prevent both giving victims the redress they deserve and, as the report states well, clearing a person who is identified and suspected and under 15 years of age. It is therefore also important from this point of view to review the system of actions for evidence, and that is why we have called for the Liberals' motions to be approved. It is good that the government parties have also chosen to agree to this, to hear and to be amazed. Now we hope that the investigation can be launched soon so that we can get a proposal for legislation at Parliament's table. Madam President, I would like The second point I would like to make concerns the penalty rebate for young people aged 15 to 20. Today, they are treated differently. The 18-year-old who commits crimes regularly receives about half the penalty for what a 21-year-old receives. We have made an announcement on this in the past, and since we think it may be justified to see how the government chooses to deal with it, we have chosen to make a specific opinion. This is important. It's not just about society marking what's right and what's wrong. It is also a question of giving redress to the victim. There is also a preventive aspect. To the person who commits a serious crime and receives a sanction that does not relate to it, society sends out the signal that you can continue to commit these crimes because nothing happens. Then the ball rolls on, as we see in the case of many young offenders: they commit crimes, but nothing happens. If we want to reverse the trend, this is devastating. Madam President, I would like I would like to express my support for reservation No 1.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-307	Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats have been working for years to get rid of the youth discount. Today, a young person who is 18 years of age but not 21 years of age automatically receives a 50% reduction in his or her sentence and a 20-year-old to three-quarters- only because he or she is under 21 years of age. It is not uncommon for the young person to then receive an additional discount due to personal circumstances. There are examples where an 18-year-old was sentenced for rape to two years in prison, but because of the discount system only received two months. It is unreasonable that today's legislation gives young people who commit serious crimes a youth discount when courts impose penalties. It has been over 40 years since we lowered the age of government from 21 to 18. Being an adult means several rights but also several obligations. Sometimes in Sweden we tend to forget about the latter part. But neglecting responsibilities is not a concern. Being afraid to mark is not showing insight, but the other way around. Giving youth discounts to adults is the wrong way to go. It's sending the wrong signals. There is an investigation that came in December 2018 where parts are in line with our proposal. But nothing has yet happened, and neither do we know which path the government will take. This issue has been driven by the Swedish Democrats for a long time, and society needs to make it clear that there is no trial-on-criminality, for which the Liberals and the Centers have actively chosen to fight in a joint reservation. If you are of age, you should be judged on your actions and at once. Anyone who cares for these youths must have the courage and the strength to show this in practical action. It is time to remove the penalty rebate for young offenders. Young people who commit crimes need to be allowed to take an immediate and clear consequence of their actions. Even from a victim's point of view, reasonable penalties are important. It is provocative for victims of serious crimes of 17 to 20-year-olds that some of them are not punished. If you are convicted of aggravated assault and are 17 years old, you will not be in prison without a youth service for 35 - 70 hours. The person is out on the street again and continues to commit new crimes. By removing the automatic youth discount, we get a capacitation effect. The person in question is locked up and cannot during that time commit new crimes or harm anyone else. Madam President, I would like It should never be that a victim who gets kicked down, abused and scarred for life should be forced to face the offender a few days after. A decent society will not allow this to happen. Unfortunately, that is exactly what is happening in Sweden today, and that is something we Swedish democrats will never accept. Anyone who accepts this not only betrays the victim and its relatives. It also betrays all those people who are at risk of being the next victim. We see that crime is creeping further and further down the age range. Many of today's young criminals have already become professional criteria before they turn 18. Younger people in alienation areas are used as minions for older criminals, and it is not uncommon for 15-, 16- and 17-year-olds to commit very serious crimes such as murder, assault and rape. The social development we are seeing today requires increased opportunities for society to intervene against those younger and younger individuals who are otherwise at risk of being involved in criminal environments. Many professional critics begin their criminal career long before they turn 15. To indicate early that criminal behaviour is not accepted on the part of society and that it has consequences, the Swedish democrats propose to reduce the age of the criminal authority from 15 to 13 years. With the same principle as that grades at an early age in school function as an important signal system when something is wrong, we will face and fight crime at a young age. Early reactions allow for necessary reflections. Anyone who quickly takes the consequence of his actions tends to relate to this very consequence in the future. Since we do not have the majority to get through a reduced criminal age, we have chosen to take part in a statement of evidence. From a victim's perspective, it is good to investigate the issue of guilt. Nevertheless, we believe that it should be taken one step further in order for society to have an opportunity at an early stage to stop the continuation of crime. The youth rebate needs to be removed, but the judiciary also needs to ensure that there is a faster prosecution of young people. In northern Stockholm a trial is under way with faster prosecutions that have fallen well out. Hopefully the method will spread to more areas. Cooperation between authorities and the police and a functioning school are also crucial to reducing the recruitment of young criminals. We want to see serious consequences for real, fast prosecution and active work with collaboration between those actors who can really make a difference. These, Madam President, are key factors in the process of creating a safer Sweden for all. I support reservations 10 and 11.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-322	Madam President, I would like I have had the great privilege of full - time politics for almost five years. During these years I have made hundreds of study visits to companies, associations, administrations and authorities. When you leave the study visits, it is often with new energy and new policy proposals or problems that need to be addressed. A couple of weeks ago I visited one of Sweden's detention centres, which has a special youth department, Sollentuna. Of all the visits I've made over the years, this undoubtedly made the strongest impression. It was with a lump in my stomach that I sat on the pendulum back to Parliament. Any young person or child who ends up in Sisboende, in jail or in prison is a community failure. I think it is important to emphasise in the debate that we are talking about children and young people. Of course – without doubt – criminal acts must have severe consequences, but the aim must be for these children and young people to eventually come back into society as good citizens of society. In order to overcome the fact that young people get caught in crime, society must indicate that the course of crime does not lead anywhere. Far too few are convicted of minor crime, sending a false signal that crime is both easy and profitable. The Center Party, starting in certain vulnerable areas, wants to demand rapid and precise intervention against petty crimes and everyday crime in order to halt and reverse developments in these areas in the longer term. Young adults over the age of 18 have the same rights and obligations as other adult citizens in Sweden. They must take responsibility for their actions. For this reason, the Center Party wants the penalty rebate for young repeat offenders and young people who have committed serious crimes to be reviewed, because crimes must have severe and immediate consequences, including from a victim's perspective, in order to achieve closure and progress, but also to facilitate the possibility of compensation. Madam President, I would like It is good that a majority in the committee wants to look at the question of the case for proof. On a number of occasions in recent years, attention has clearly been drawn to the need to clarify the issue of guilt, including for children under the age of 15, in the event of serious criminal suspicions through judicial review, not least because the suspect may experience stigmatisation and great frustration at not having received a serious criminal suspicion against himself or herself. A court can now try the debt issue for children under the age of 15, but this must be done on the initiative of the Social Welfare Board, the National Board of Health and Welfare or the child's guardian. We think it is reasonable that prosecutors should also be given the opportunity to raise the case for evidence. Madam President, I would like The aim must be for young criminals to have their own livelihood, housing and to be able to get away from their criminal past in the long term. In this work, Correctional Care plays an important role in strengthening efforts to prevent relapse. This applies, of course, to both younger and older criminals. Measures to strengthen drop-outs, strengthen the labour market opportunities of former convicted persons, prevent debts from arising for the inmates during prison periods and strengthen the interaction between the authorities concerned are extremely important. For some of the young people who are out of the rules of society, the efforts of social services are not enough. With regard to this group, it should therefore be reviewed whether the State should take over responsibility. Roughly criminal young people could be treated more effectively with the rehabilitation measures used for criminals in general, not primarily to punish but to use measures that are better able to succeed than traditional social services. I support the Center Party's reservation No 11.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-330	Madam President, I would like One of the most important tasks of society is to contribute to the positive growth and development of children and young people. The area we are now dealing with, young offenders, is part of this important work to help young people find the right path in life. One of the most important tasks of the state is to maintain security through a well-functioning judicial system. The role of the police in crime prevention is central. Preventing crime and early detection of children and young people at risk of crime is of paramount importance. To achieve this, a comprehensive policy is needed for children and young people. We need a supportive family policy, a good school, an investment in young people's growing-up environment, a thorough crime prevention work by the police and an offensive criminal policy. It is good that the committee has agreed to support a review of the system of evidence actions, but I would now like to talk a little about our motion for greater cooperation between police and school. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that promoting more structured cooperation between police and school is an important resource for preventing and combating crime. I am aware that there are already good examples such as civic promises or cooperation agreements between the municipality and the police. They contain proposals for enhanced cooperation, including in the form of designated contact police officers. We Christian Democrats want to see greater cooperation between the school and the police becoming an overall national objective. The school is of great importance when it comes to conveying values and building a foundation of values. There, we Christian Democrats have repeatedly stressed that school should not be value neutral. The school has a responsibility to conduct ethical discussions and to mark early limits for what is permitted and not allowed and what is right and wrong. However, school is constantly the subject of debate, and society cannot demand that a school alone should prevent and reverse the trend. In order to prevent and combat crime, it is important that there is confidence between police and young people. Cooperation with local youth organisations should be a permanent part of police work. The police's work of getting in touch with children and young people before starting with crime is also of great importance. Information in schools about police work is and should be an important part of police tasks. The police should have developed cooperation with each school, preferably with a specially appointed police officer attached to the school who can get to know students and staff and to whom they can turn if they are victims of crime. Madam President, I would like A number of measures are needed to increase confidence in the police in many youth groups, and a key part of this work is that young people understand the legal system. Young people already need to get in touch with the police in primary school, while emphasising knowledge of law and education. We invest a lot in Swedish police, and we will. To increase young people's confidence, a locally based police force is needed that cooperates with other actors in society, with the school, with civil society and with social services. This may involve a special police officer who is attached to a specific school, so that you can name your own police, and that district police are appointed to prevent social unrest and problems such as gang crime through relationship-building work. I therefore call for the approval of reservation 3, which is based on the proposal for greater cooperation between the police and the school as described in the Christian Democrats' motion. I would therefore like the Parliament to support what is stated in the motion on police contact with the school. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats, together with all parties who want to continue to act during this term of office, will make further proposals in the important work of creating a safer Sweden and also finding ways of contributing to positive development for all children and young people.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-340	Madam President, I would like The situation for our young people varies. It is amazing what opportunities young people have today, and it is amazing to see how talented and talented they can be. And it is gratifying that fewer and fewer young people end up in crime. It was a completely different thing when my generation was young. Very good work is therefore being done to ensure that crime is reduced and security among young people increases. At the same time, there are a number of young people who earlier and more powerfully go into crime. They are drawn into the gangs more or less like cannon food, where they destroy their lives and others' way too fast. This is a reality that we have a responsibility to face. And what should we do to ensure that these young people do not continue with crime? If a first crime is committed, it should preferably be the last one. We Liberals believe that something will happen a little earlier, very much clearer and sometimes a little tougher. We have seen years of misplaced benevolence that means that you should not intervene. Like most people in here, I have different experiences in life. Among other things, I've worked in district court. When negotiations with young offenders who had turned 15 and were to be prosecuted for the first time for their actions went through staffing, the page was upside down with details of what these kids had been through. It can be said that very little had happened from the community. It is a misplaced benevolence of society not to intervene. There are few things as antisocial and dangerous as committing crimes. We know that this means that young people can harm others. We know, for example, that young people who are victims of crime are often at risk of becoming perpetrators in the next line. Then there is a direct link that makes it very urgent, for double reasons, to reduce crime among young criminals. When it comes to doing a little bit, I would like to mention another experience that I have. I haven't visited all the Swedish prisons, but I've visited quite a few people and met single killers, double killers and triple killers. But no one has said to me: Yes, Johan Pehrson, I sit here because society intervened too early and too clearly. Everyone says the opposite: There is too little happening. Here we really have a big homework to do. I think that previous speakers here have highlighted in a commendable way the need for these things to be done together with the broad social policy brush strokes, that is, that the school works, that more adults have the ability to be able as parents if they now have children, that there is a functioning integration policy and so on. This is all very important. In this regard, we must be prepared to act earlier in the current situation. But we are not discussing this in the Committee on Justice. We'll start when the children who commit crimes are 15 years old. But before they do, so much happens. That is why I think we should perhaps make sure – we can see to that ourselves, because it is we who are the Riksdag – to have such a project that we have had in the past with committee joint actions and that we, together with the Social Affairs Committee, look at what we should do to have relevant measures when the kids are 13 – 14 years old, so that something happens when they commit crimes and so that there should not be a misplaced goodwill that there should be as little as possible. The obligation is quite inadequate in Swedish social services law. Actions are based on volunteering and consent, and something happens only when the young have committed a great many crimes and only when they are 15 years old. If we concentrate on this report on young offenders, the Liberals are of the opinion that social groups are important. It does not help with the 10,000 new employees in the Swedish police that we will see in the coming years. They will be very useful. They will be district policemen, they will be in schools and they will be out to meet young people at other times than when they turn on the blue lights. They will be there, and they will reduce crime and increase security before anything happens. The best police effort is to ensure that crime is never committed, even if it does not lead to any crime being cleared up. But it greatly increases security and reduces the number of victims. The social action groups are about ensuring that they act in each municipality. I am prepared to legislate on this, because it is important that not only the police act. School, social services and others must act together around young people, solving confidentiality and efficiency issues. The committee has sent this to the government in the past. It's up again. We must emphasise this with greater emphasis. It is therefore important for the Liberals to emphasise this with social groups. I therefore support Amendment No 2 in this report. I find it interesting to read the reservation on drug testing. It was a number of years ago that we made it possible to make it possible to test young people with coercion for a single purpose, namely to get them to stop drugging. We know that, in the wake of drugs, there is very rarely anything other than misery, crime, exclusion and premature death. Is there anything more urgent than interrupting this? We see that this is not used very often. But the times it is used, the police think it is to the full, and that is important. Unfortunately, there are signs that drug use is deepening in certain youth groups. We Liberals are very pleased that we have gained broad support and that it makes a difference to exercise in Parliament. I am thinking of the fact that the whole committee supports the idea of an action for proof. Pending strong action for 13 to 14-year-olds from social services, i.e. something happens when you commit crimes, it is important that we can clarify. It is important for the victim to be able to obtain redress, to receive compensation and to be able to have his or her rights satisfied. It is also important for the young offender, as social services with a fixed action for proof can be more easily forced to make efforts for this young person. There are a number of such cases, and unfortunately there are more. Unfortunately, we can see and read in the media about young people under the age of 15 who have committed vile acts against people. It is important that this is clarified and investigated in law. Even if there is no criminal liability, there is evidence that this has happened. And in order to help not least the perpetrator himself, binding social policy measures from the social services can be put in place. Madam President, I would like I would also like to raise the issue of penalties and the issue of automatic discounts depending on age. There, the Liberals are clear. It is clear that a penalty should be imposed depending on the person's maturity and other things. However, we want to abolish the automaticity that exists today, even if there is an investigation that points to this. This is what we support. When you get to this type of deed in court and when it becomes relevant with penalty discounts, it is often too late. Finally, we have a task to stop having a misplaced benevolence towards young people who commit crimes. It should be earlier, clearer and a little tougher measures.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-356	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report. At the next stage, I would like to accuse Johan Pehrson of stealing parts of my speech. I see he's pretty happy with that. What politics is currently lacking much is balance. There is a worn expression – almost with a veil over it – that says you should have two balls in your head at the same time. Swedish justice policy is characterized very much by politicians like in Twitter feeds, at play and press conferences or on Facebook standing with crossed arms and looking out at their election or focus groups. They point a finger at vulnerable people down there to tell them how to live their lives. This is a disease in Swedish politics, and it exists in many policy areas. In the field of justice policy, it is almost the worst. On the other hand, I do not see this tone of voice when talking to individual politicians in committees or when travelling and visiting businesses. Instead, there is a problematization and understanding that things are complex. This is perhaps typical Swedish. Our entire consultation process is about us seeing conditions from different directions, and we make decisions on a rational basis. As regards young offenders, as some representatives in today's debate claim, the trend is not such as to increase in numbers. It is said that this is a dystopian reality and that young people are more involved in crime than before. In some categories of crime this is the case, but the general picture is rather completely opposite. Over the past ten years, both prosecutions and the number of young people in the suspect register have fallen dramatically. This is because young people do not drink as much as before. We'll be happy about that, because it's a victory to bring home. This decline was already visible during the period of bourgeois government. Be proud of the fact that there is less violence in public environments than before! Instead, you play people's fears so that eventually people don't dare to live the lives they would like. What responsibility do politicians take for pensioners to sit at home and be afraid? Instead, they could go out on a Friday night and have a glass of wine with their girlfriends at an outdoor restaurant somewhere in town. The answer is, nothing. With this kind of rhetoric, you are making people free, completely unnecessary. Having said that, the Social Democrats and the government are very clear. Where there is a need for law enforcement, there is such a thing. This was clearly evident when it came to arms legislation. Then we made sure that we had effective legislation, and today the detention centres are overcrowded by young people who have been walking around with weapons in different environments. Now they're inside under automatic arrest. What is required is a craft. A decision is made, and we draw the consequences of it and develop policy. Prison care's youth initiative is another good example of craftsmanship. It invests in being close to the client, having a high staff density and trying to find ways to get these young people to leave their criminal life-style. This initiative is currently under threat in view of the budgetary conditions for prison care. We need to have a special focus on this. Of course, this effort also needs to be evaluated vis-à-vis other efforts. We also need to discuss the fact that the areas of justice policy are not autonomous in relation to other policies. It's all connected. If we have a society with increased housing segregation, a school where we no longer meet across class boundaries – a totally segregated, market-oriented breakdown – a society where we no longer even meet in primary care because of health choices and other things carried out in the name of freedom of choice, people's outlook decreases. For the young guys and girls in the socially underprivileged areas that exist in this country, the role models are increasingly further away. I'm really tired of those who say, "Look, let's go for spontaneous sports places." They could be a new Zlatan! These are not the role models that young people want or need. They need role models who want to be environmental engineers, preschool teachers and police. These are the models we are talking about. Such people are seeing less and less out in these areas because society is so segregated and segregation and inequality are increasing. Otherwise, this would be the basic crime prevention effort, which is rarely discussed. I would like to highlight three good examples. I don't think we should build politics on best practice, as we always say when we're out on study visits. We will build politics on Brå's wonderfully boring bar charts, on the wise views of our consultation bodies and through good political development among us politicians. But we can also have some best practice. The Committee on Justice was during the last parliamentary term in America to look at how they dealt with gang crime in some of the most vulnerable cities in the Western hemisphere. This applies not least to Baltimore on the east coast of the United States. There were policemen who have been seen in TV shows: large upper bodies and very narrow, skinny legs. They were hard guys. We were also in Chicago visiting Cook County Jail, the world's largest prison with 10,000 prisoners. We also visited Elgin, a city located west of Chicago. Most of us as stap p put away the study visit to the city did so with a fantastic feel in the heart. It was partly because they were good people, partly because they had found systems and methods that actually worked. They did not do that with signal politics, not with harsher penalties, not with politicians who in their Facebook feeds put up pictures where they stood with crossed arms and looked out. Instead, they did so with policemen working in schools in a crime prevention, contact-building and relationship-building way. There it was even that you couldn't become a police chief if you hadn't worked crime prevention for many years. It was a merit to be out there. In Baltimore and Chicago, the police unanimously told the members of the Swedish committee: Don't go the way we do in the United States! Don't think that's the answer! Instead, look at how well you in Sweden have actually worked before, and think above all crime prevention and not repressive. This was my first example. Two weeks ago, the S-group of the Justice Committee was on an individual trip to Iceland to look at the Reykjavik model. It consisted of a few different parts, which we can look at together. One very important thing, however, was that in Iceland and in Reykjavik in particular they had invested heavily in activities for young people. One received a targeted contribution to be able to engage in music, theatre, or sports. It worked fine, and such activities dramatically brought down crime and drug use in Iceland. This was my second example. My third example is from Borås. A few weeks ago, we were visited by district policemen and three police officers from the serious crime unit. They described some of the reality that we have seen. They told us: Don't invest in middle school when the young people have already got the wrong focus! Just as Johan said, you have to go down and see risk behaviours and problems at preschool level. It is in the first few years of school and not the last ones that action should take place. Then it's usually too late. These were three contributions with constructive proposals on which I hope we will be able to have a dialogue in committee in the future. We want the same thing.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-375	Madam President, I would like Since 1734, offenders have been punished more easily than adults. Since 1734, it has been considered in Sweden that young people who commit crimes should be punished more easily than adults who commit the same crimes. It is a fine Swedish tradition, which is now changing. What surprises me most is not the lack of knowledge about brain development as one of many explanations that young people are young and therefore should not be treated as adults, but what surprises me most is what the Moderates and Christian Democrats write in their reservation. It says there's a new group of young men in prison. I wonder: Which group do they mean? I guess it's young men from socially vulnerable areas with low trust in society. But it's not a new representation of institutional clients, is it? It is the same that has always existed – it has always been young men from socially vulnerable areas who are responsible for a large part of crime. I believe, Madam President, that this is called class blindness. It is an inability to see what economic inequality creates. If we look at the crime statistics and the reasons for getting involved in a criminal lifestyle, we see that it is factors such as financial vulnerability, educational level and mental illness that create crime. It's called class. It is the children of the working class who become criminals, and it is the children of the working class who are affected by crime. That has always been the case, and unfortunately it is still the case. Should the Moderates and the KD seriously want to reduce crime, they would invest in financial security for all – on equality. But instead, the Moderates and the KD want to investigate. They want you to look at other countries' experiences of why working class is in prison and then present crime prevention measures. Well, that's a nice suggestion, but let me give you a little tip: It doesn't really need to be investigated at all. Money needs to be invested in socially vulnerable areas. It needs to be focused on economic equality and on combating young boys' mental ill health. But it can be a little difficult for the conservative bloc, because they lower the tax for the rich rather than bet on boys so that they don't become criminals. Madam President, I would like It is between the ages of 18 and 20 that the absolute highest levels of prosecution take place; this is a pattern that has remained unchanged for a long time. The most important lesson about crime is that it decreases as people get older. Removing various forms of penalty rebates will cement the young boys from vulnerable areas in their crime. There is now solid Swedish and Nordic research that shows that young people who are sentenced to prison find it more difficult to stop crime and thus have longer criminal careers. In 2017, 10,000 young adults were prosecuted for crimes – 26 of them for deadly violence. The rest were for drug offences of a less serious nature, assault, assault and traffic offences. There are many reasons why young people should be treated as young people. This was done in Sweden already 1734, and this idea is still holding. We also know that financial vulnerability and mental ill-health can lead to criminality and that long prison sentences at an early age increase the risk of a person becoming life crisis. Yet it is precisely these proposals, which go completely against all research, that the Moderates and the KD are leaning on. Let me conclude by quoting the Public Prosecutor Petra Lundh's youth reduction inquiry – it fits well in this slightly bizarre contemporary debate. In the investigation we conclude that there is no empirical, or experience-based, support for stricter sanctions for young offenders. .....................................................
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-386	Madam President, I would like I would just like to correct my claims. I am in favour of reservations 9 and 10 – nothing else. I therefore support the reservations about reducing the age of the criminal authorities and removing the penalty rebate.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-387	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Defence Committee's report 9 on military issues. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 5 and 13. For some years now, as a consequence of the deteriorating security situation, Swedish defence has been in a phase of growth. Resources have been added, and the majority of parliamentary parties have said they are willing to provide additional funds in the coming years. The challenge will be to translate the new resources into real defence capabilities. Today it is clear that organisation, governance and follow-up within the Ministry of Defence and within the defence authorities are not working optimally. A number of problems have been highlighted from different directions. This applies, for example, to an asymmetrical relationship and a lack of dialogue between ministries and authorities as well as between authorities. This also applies to excessive detail management by authorities on less important issues, lack of traceability of decisions and, in some cases, poor evidence. On the basis that defence will grow and defence spending will increase, these shortcomings need to be addressed. The Moderates would like to highlight some aspects where there is an improvement potential. In the case of the Ministry of Defence, resources need to be provided in order to manage a larger economy. Consideration should be given to having an additional State Secretary with a focus on material and export issues. There should also be closer dialogue, both formal and informal, between ministries and defence authorities and between authorities. In addition, extra contact persons should be added at the Ministry of Finance with a focus on defence issues. A well-functioning dialogue between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance is a prerequisite for an effective process that leads to increased defence capabilities. At the moment, a number of European countries are increasing their defence spending. It is expected that by 2024 15 of NATO Member States will have achieved NATO's target of 2% of GDP going to defence expenditure. This means that there will be a number of countries that make the same journey as Sweden and face the same challenge of turning resources into defence capabilities. Sweden should learn from how other countries do. For example, we should learn from Germany, which creates processes for the governance, implementation and follow-up of the defence reforms. The Defense Committee proposes that the department currently in place at the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for civil defence, should be transferred to the Ministry of Defence and set up its own department that has gathered responsibility for total defence planning. The Moderates believe that the Fortifications Agency should also be transferred to the Ministry of Defence in order for it to become a total defence department. As far as the Armed Forces are concerned, there is a need to strengthen the role of the Director General and the financial steering function. The defence committee's proposal for an independent authority for monitoring and evaluating total defence is an important step in improving long-term building of capabilities and cost control. Madam President, I would like We would also like to point out the need to take measures that reduce the policy's detailed control of the agency and the need to decentralise responsibility and decision-making within the Swedish Armed Forces in the long term. An important part of this is to increase personal responsibility for the activities you are assigned to lead. There shall be a personal responsibility of the officer who is the highest commander of a military unit to be able to account for the status of personnel and materials replenishment and ultimate war ability. In addition, the person concerned shall be able to report on the progress of the work to increase the capacity for war, and this information shall be available to the highest political leadership at the Ministry of Defence. Finally, the question of how defence capabilities are monitored needs to be reviewed. Today, war ability is measured from a number of parameters where things such as personnel and material supply, preparedness and practice are the yardstick. This is good. There are fixed parameters that are directly measurable. In addition to this, annual aggregated balances should also be made in which own capabilities are put against those held and developed by the opponent in order to determine whether changes are needed. The activities of the defence are in many ways unique. Ultimately, it aims to defend our country in a state of war. This means that the authority often needs special solutions for different functions. These are in most cases beneficial and aim to increase safety, but sometimes they lead to increased unnecessary bureaucracy. The Moderates therefore want to set up an investigation that looks at how bureaucracy and regulatory hassle can be reduced in the Swedish Armed Forces. We also want exceptions to certain standards and rules to be made if there are national security reasons or if a particularly urgent matter needs to be addressed. Madam President, I would like The Home Guard, which today represents just over 40 per cent of the Swedish Armed Forces' personnel, has in recent years undergone a positive development towards a sharper organisation. It is also a very cost-effective part of the Swedish Armed Forces that creates a valuable popular attachment. The units are more well trained, and modern equipment has been added to the home guard. As the security situation has deteriorated in the immediate vicinity of Sweden, the defence of its own territory has also become increasingly important. For this, the Home Guard is a central player. There is a great potential to further strengthen the Home Guard and thus also strengthen the defence of Sweden. We therefore want the Home Guard to be a defence branch of its own. This would give the organisation greater autonomy within the Swedish Armed Forces and better opportunities to develop. With the new decentralised management structure, it is also important to clarify the central role of the Home Guard by making it visible as its own defence branch. The fact that the Home Guard is governed by a different regulatory framework from the rest of the Swedish Armed Forces underlines this need. In particular, the Home Guard could play an important role in protecting socially important infrastructure. Making the Home Guard a defence branch of its own requires, however, that the question of what autonomy and role the Home Guard should have in a war situation be clarified. In the event of war, one alternative is to subject the Home Guard Commander to the command of the army and to allow the Home Guard Commander to have the main task of directing the ground territorial activities in the rear areas. In addition, the tasks of the Home Guard in war should not be limited to protecting and guarding, but the instructions of the Home Guard units should include the defence and destruction of armed attacks. The number in the Home Guard should be increased. This would significantly strengthen the defence of the Swedish territory with more local units that can be in place in the event of a crisis within a few hours. In the next focus period, the Home Guard should fill the 25 000 posts that already exist. Today, more than 21 000 of these have been met. In the long term, the goal should be for the Home Guard to reach 30,000 soldiers. There are also a number of things that should be considered to give the Home Guard more qualified tasks and more modern equipment. Since 2014, the Home Guard has been assigned grenade launchers, which provide the capability for indirect fire, as a result of the 2015 Defence Agreement. The defense committee has also previously proposed that the Home Guard be trained and equipped with anti-aircraft type Robot 70. In addition to anti-aircraft, there is also a suggestion that the Home Guard could assist in laying reserve bridges. From the Moderates' side, we also want to highlight the possibility of using the robot systems 55 and 56, which are still in Swedish military stores. In the long term, most Home Guard Battalions could be added to anti-tank capabilities by using the systems already in place in the defense. Home Guards should also be relevant in the protection of digital infrastructure and be able to operate in the cyber-war sphere. The future human resources supply of a major home guard will require action, especially in areas in Sweden with a demographic recruitment base. The Moderates therefore want to introduce the model of local defence units proposed in the investigation A robust personnel supply of military defence. The provision of personnel to local defence units shall be possible by direct recruitment of those who have already undergone military service.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-409	Madam President, I would like I will start by saying something about the budget. At the last meeting we had in this House, I asked all the parties if they had anchored this by 11⁄2% to 2025 in their party leaders. All except the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party had established this. We are now in a defence committee where we have come a very long way. We agreed early on this 11⁄2% to the defence budget. My question is: have you now spoken to your party leaders? Or will there be another debate in this House on what budget to have on the autumn side? Please come up and tell me! As far as the budget for the Swedish Armed Forces is concerned, the Swedish Democrats think that we should have a long-term perspective. I think we agree on that. We will also propose that the appropriations now be in three years. As an example, the Swedish Armed Forces received 18 billion before Christmas. Then they have it in three years, instead of having to constantly come back in autumn budgets and wonder if they get this money or not. The big race to spend money begins in October November. I myself have been involved in this many years as an officer: spend the money! We want to be able to move them. The Parliamentary Investigation Service, RUT, replied to me the other day that it is quite possible with three-year grants. We will come back to this. Then, of course, we have a defence committee that goes on for five years. That should be the focus of the money as well. Speaking of the budget, I would like to make another point. Now you're all really happy when you've got your Patriot system. I stood in this Chamber and said: there will not be enough 12 billion here! That's 15, 20, 25, 30 billion from taxpayers to buy a system that may not be bad but at least not up-to-date. We have a radar that sees 120 degrees. We shot off the system on the Aurora drill. You spend the taxpayers' money on that. It is you who are responsible for having this system in three or four years' time. It would be interesting to hear if you still think this was a brilliant idea. We don't get anything on our corvettes. With our system we had had a good anti-aircraft system on each of our surface combat vessels in the Visby class. We would have had robots with different systems and with Swedish radar in more places if we had gone on our line. Now you get the chance again, when we get back to the Visby class, to put CAMM robots there. Now we agree if we need an anti-aircraft system on our Visby corvettes. Then I would like to ask: would you not consider sitting down and thinking about what systems we should have, rather than trusting a single official? It is huge money that taxpayers put into a system that is not up-to-date at all. What do we want with the Navy? We have been exercising on this in the past, and here is a summary of the most important elements. We have written much more, Madam President, but here are some of it. Modification of the Visby class – this is an old exercise – we naturally want to get started right away. Then we discuss whether we should take the Gothenburg class, i.e. Visby corvettes that lie in a moth bag in general, and upgrade them. We were given an indication that it would cost 3 1⁄2 billion to upgrade them to the Visby class. There are other versions of upgrades. Are we going to do this, or are we going to invest in new corvettes instead of spending 3 1⁄2 billion for a mid-term modification? We'll extend the life span of these corvettes to maybe 2035. We have to start somewhere to build a new version. I have started to doubt whether it is wise to push the issue of upgrades. I'm not sure yet. We from the Swedish Democrats have not landed in this yet, Madam President. The number of surface combat vessels needs to increase, and when we pass ten, it is time to establish another surface combat flotilla. The West Sea, Gothenburg, is also the subject of a placement of our marine combat forces. We have also written about this before. Then we also want additional mine clearance resources and minute-laying resources. We also want to establish amphibious units and increase the number significantly. A natural base is in the Western Sea, except for a marine base, and it is included in that marine base. We have also exercised this in the past. You could say that could be a summary of the Navy. As far as the army is concerned, we have said that we need to go up to seven brigades in order to defend the whole country, and in addition, city shooting battalions are needed in our cities Gothenburg, Malmö and Stockholm. We want that, and we also want to increase the number of amphibious units, as I said. We also believe, and we are alone in this, that the army should establish a recruitment office in Luleå. So does the head of the northern region. So does the manager at F 21 in Luleå. There doesn't have to be a recruitment office all year, but maybe three months. But what do they know? You have voted down this proposal before. You know better. When it comes to brigade air defence, we must also have a battalion artillery on Gotland. That battle group is without a battalion artillery. This is a priority for the Gotland Battlegroup. There's got to be a battalion artillery there. In the long term, we want a rocket artillery system. We have also written about that years ago. The seven brigades will look different, and so will a number of the other units. Then there are the reinforcement units that you know – engineering units, artillery units and so on – that were previously called distribution resources. We want to keep the name distribution. It may be another word for this, but it is the same thing anyway. We must therefore establish a tactical management resource in the military regions. The military regions, as they stand today, cannot lead brigades. Now there are not so many brigades to lead, but in the future you have to provide brigades and tactical management resources. Then they can be grouped together. Similarly, the military regions must be jacked in with the civilian areas so that there are four military regions and four civilian regions for easier coordination and interaction between them. It is also an important issue that we want to pursue. When it comes to aviation, we need 150 in the long term – we have written 200 – Jas Gripen Erik. Now we keep the C/ D version and develop Gripen Erik, and in the long term we develop 150 – 200 of them. Why do we float a little when it comes to numbers? There's 200 in the papers. Well, the question is whether a possible merger with Finland could reduce the number of JAS Gripen Erik. I think it can. Madam President, I would like I see the speaking time is up. I would ask you to support our reservations 1 and 8.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-426	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to take part in today's debate on these important and central military issues! The defence committee is mentioned in today's report, and it is an extremely important piece of work that is currently being done in our broad parliamentary dialogue, as you might call it, where we often meet and have done so in the last two years. We have a forum for consultations between the government and the parliamentary parties. This Consultation Forum has been under way since the 1990s on defence and security issues. We can say that we are now faced with the final phase, the playoffs, where the real conditions are to be defined in terms of how the next defence decision is to be dimensioned. By far the biggest question is about what economic framework and what economic opportunities will guide the priorities in the next step. I have an extremely important ambition today, and that is to help negotiate a framework that holds over the next defence-oriented period. This is needed, because we have a situation where Sweden needs to strengthen total defence capabilities and military defence. At a time when the global focus is shifting more and more east, the world order is becoming more and more based on non-democratic values and the major powers are developing in a direction that we have not seen before, affecting our neighbourhood but also the global security situation. This really justifies the need to add more resources to the defence. On 14 May, in six weeks' time, we shall be ready, and the government parties have not yet declared their ambitions regarding the financial framework for the forthcoming defence preparation report. It is high time that we now openly set out our ambitions. We have pointed this out in previous debates in this House, and I am doing so again. Without that information, a practical and constructive final dialogue on the conditions cannot be conducted in the best possible way. It is high time to move forward in the important financial discussion. We can have many different ambitions when it comes to military capability development. We also have that, in each party, but we need to make the whole thing go together. Our goal, which is also to be repeated, is that we should reach at least the Nordic average for share of bnp for the next defense period. It is just over 11⁄2% as it is moving upwards because our neighbours are gradually taking steps now to increase the appropriations for military expenditure. It's important. As today's report deals with unit structure and organisation, we see that the war organisation to be decided by the Riksdag needs to be developed. We need more brigades, and we need a whole-country perspective with a local anchoring that makes it possible to work with more regiments and formations in different ways so that there can be an increased coverage of operations around this country. We see on both the east and west coast but also up north that there is a lot to work with here to get even more businesses in place and also develop. We want to contribute to that. We also see, when it comes to the Home Guard, that there is an enormous amount of work to be done there – this voluntary resource and this commitment is so strong. Last summer we were able to see in many parts of the country what invaluable efforts were made by Home Guards and Home Guard women who were committed to helping put out the fires that hit many different forest owners around the country. We also saw how endurance and stress affected over time how one could manage to maintain preparedness and also be in place. The Home Guard, as we have heard in the debate, is extremely important and, with its 40 battalions, is a large part of the army fighting raids. It also accounts for 40% of the defence's human resources. We can agree that much needs to be done here. Some examples of things that I see as important are 中 ensuring the existence of personal material for each of the following: 中 that we can increase the number of grenade launchers 中 that we can get more cooperation with our Nordic neighbours, not least Norway 中 that we equip more battalions with a system that allows for better anti-aircraft capabilities. It can also send signals to potential opponents that we have a readiness everywhere in the country. We have very good surface coverage and peoples' anchorages via the Home Guard. It is valuable when it comes to strengthening total defence. When it comes to strengthening the defence will of the population, the Home Guard is also invaluable. You reach out to many more and can attract more people to join the Home Guard. We also support the ambition to increase the number to 30 000. This is an important objective in the forthcoming final negotiations and in the work of the Defence Committee. The Home Guard needs to play an increasingly important role also in terms of host country support, protection and mobilisation of other armed forces, and in protecting and defending facilities, critical infrastructure and different areas. Here we see that it is limiting according to what resources currently exist. More needs to be done to add capacity. The Home Guard has high availability, large numerary and is also often quickly in place. It is crucial when we talk about military capability development. Madam President, I would like I would like to endorse Amendments Nos 2 and 13. I would also like to talk about the importance of taking advantage of the shooting fields and training areas that are around the country. One important issue for us in our work with the Defence Committee is to take advantage of existing infrastructure, existing environmental permits and permits for operations, so that you can enable even more practice, all year round, in different weather conditions and in different climate zones, from north to south. It is also important to ensure that these facilities can be available in the long term. And the focus should be on using more facilities than today. Several are dormant. This is important for the Home Guard but also for other military activities, on land but also at sea, in the next defence-oriented period. In view of this, there needs to be coherence between different authorities in total defence planning – between municipal level, county boards and other actors in our public operations – so that the processes that are under way can also be developed. Madam President, I would like The new security policy situation places stricter demands on our defence capabilities. The Center Party has long worked to both strengthen defence capabilities and increase funding. We are prepared to contribute over the next few weeks to the achievement of a proper objective and that, in due course, decisions can be taken in this House which will allow for increased resources and clear objectives for the war organisation in the coming years.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-451	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Hello to those of you who listen and watch! Today we are debating a large number of motions in the field of defence policy under the very broad title of ‘Military issues'. In that block there is a motion that I am very proud that the Left Party has submitted. It is called the Swedish Armed Forces, climate and environment. I would like to say right now that I am in favour of the Left Party's Amendment No 9. Environmental and climate issues are the greatest concerns of our time. All people and society as a whole must take responsibility for a sustainable transition. All authorities – including the Swedish Armed Forces – will do their part to prevent climate change and stop environmental degradation. Climate change and natural disasters are serious threats to the security of the country and its inhabitants. We have many recent examples: fires, floods and droughts. Around the world, natural disasters are one of the root causes of war and conflict. Tackling climate change is therefore working towards a more peaceful and safer world. Defence is a business that has quite a significant impact on the environment with large vehicles, aircraft, boats and ammunition. Land, water and airspace are being used. In the Left Party's motion on the Swedish Armed Forces and the environment, we put our foot down and state that the Swedish Armed Forces must be better at taking their responsibility for a better environment. As part of this work, we propose an independent authority for the supervision and control of health and the environment in defence. We also believe that the Swedish Armed Forces must be given new instructions that are in line with the fairly new climate law and the climate policy framework, so that environmental and climate work is really given the highest priority throughout society. According to the Environmental Code, land and water areas are to be used for the purposes for which the area is best suited. At the same time, however, it is stated in the environmental code that the interests of the total defence take precedence over other interests. At present, putting defence interests ahead of the need for clean drinking water, biodiversity, sustainable energy production or opportunities for green industries, such as reindeer husbandry, is not reasonable. We must start putting the environment at the top of the agenda and give it the highest priority in everything we do. We really can't afford to do anything else. Madam President, I would like In the Left Party's motion on the Swedish Armed Forces and the environment, we mention several areas in the country where the Swedish Armed Forces' interests and environmental work are in conflict with each other. One of these areas is what is called Blekinge Offshore. It is a large area with wind turbines off the coast of Blekinge. Wind power is an important renewable energy source. Today, however, the Swedish Armed Forces can put a stop to planned construction of offshore wind power if you feel that they are trespassing on an exercise area. That is exactly what has happened on the coast of Blekinge. We in the Left Party believe that it must be possible to combine flying exercises with producing more wind power in Sweden. In Norrbotten there are large exercise and test areas that worry us in the Left Party, especially what is called Vidsel. It is a very large mountain area where both Swedish and foreign troops, including NATO troops, practice with aircraft and drones. Exercises in this area have a major impact on wildlife, tourism and business, especially on reindeer husbandry. Here, therefore, there is very great competition between different interests, and green industries are forced to stand back. The Left Party proposes that an investigation be carried out to clarify the effects of the exercises in Norrbotten on the environment and industries. The most important part of the Left Party's motion on the Swedish Armed Forces and the environment is the piece about Vättern. The liquid is drinking water revenue for 280 000 people. There are a number that are very likely to increase in the future. The area around Vättern is a unique environment for wildlife and vegetation and an appreciated tourist destination. But Vättern is also a large practice area for the Swedish Armed Forces, which uses the area around and in Vättern for large exercises. There are requests from the Swedish Armed Forces to expand the flight exercises around Vättern and to fly and shoot even more. This, of course, has consequences for life at and in Vättern. Old ammunition remains on the bottom, and new ammunition is added every year. There is a great deal of commitment among those who live around the lake Vättern to the flying exercises and pollution of the water. The Left Party therefore proposes that the Armed Forces' exercises over Vättern cease completely in order to ensure the availability of clean drinking water. In addition, Vättern must be sanitized so that environmental problems do not increase. The Swedish Armed Forces must be given good opportunities to practise. But we must put environmental and climate issues at the top of the agenda. There is no other option if we are to stop the climate change we are seeing today and hand over a not too destroyed environment to future generations. Madam President, I would like Now I am going to change the subject completely and say a few words about the other Left Party motions in this report. In a motion, the Left Party proposes that Sweden become a republic. In that motion we have in mind a review of the court's adjutants system. An adjutant is an officer, i.e. a highly educated person within the Swedish Armed Forces, who spends a month a year helping the King and Crown Princess during their travels and study visits. The Left Party believes that this system must be reviewed. The officers are needed at their places of work within the Swedish Armed Forces; they are not there to help the King and Crown Princess on their travels.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-467	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Defence's report on military issues. Allow me at once to endorse reservation 3 of the Christian Democrats. Of course, I support all our reservations, but for time-winning, I only approve of one. As has already been said here today, Sweden is in a stronger security position. It has also been mentioned that we are in the middle of the conclusion of a defence preparation, a work that has been going on for two and a half years. The idea is that we will present our proposal in May. Madam President, I would like Some of us were on an easterly journey. I'm not going to take the whole trip here, but I'm going to bring up something that I brought with me from it. We were in the capital of Ukraine Kiev, which is at the same distance as Paris. You can fly to Paris, and you can fly to Kiev; the distance is equal. We flew to Kiev to inform ourselves of the situation there, Madam President, and we visited a military hospital. During the conflict that has been going on since 2015 when Russia went in and took Crimea, 14 000 people have been killed, and ten people are still killed a week. It was very shocking for me and, I think, several others in the group to visit this hospital, which during these five years has helped about 10,000 severely injured. For example, we met a soldier who only a few weeks ago had walked on a mine and had his leg destroyed and amputated. I just want to mention this, because we have been fortunate in Sweden – we have been without war for 200 years. It's amazing. But let us not forget that we are not vaccinated and that there is a war going on in Europe right now. My conclusion, Madam President, is just how important the military issues are. We need to strengthen our armed forces. We have a good defence force, but it is far too small given how big Sweden is and given the threats we see before us. For in the foreseeable future it will not be better. It would be nice, but it's likely to get tougher. That's why it's important that we spend time, energy and even money on this part, because it's going to cost money. As Daniel Bäckström was in the past, we are definitely under compared to other countries. Norway is 1.5 per cent of GDP, and Finland will be up to 2 per cent in a few years' time. Sweden is 1 percent. That's not good enough. That is why it is important both that we have a plan for how we can reach 2% over a ten-year period and that we see what needs to be done in the long term. I will not mention everything, but I would like to mention a few things that apply to the different areas. As far as the army is concerned, today we have two brigades, but really it is only one – the one who practiced in Aurora. Here we see that we need to go up, step by step, to six brigades. When it comes to the Navy, it's good, but it's also too small. In future, we must be able to ensure that we can defend both the east coast and the west coast at the same time. It's not an advanced prognosis that you want to make sure supplies come out in case something happens. The supplies come through Gothenburg, and we must therefore ensure that we have combat ships based there as well. It's about us being able to defend ourselves. Sweden is a large country, and the Air Force has historically been very important. It will continue to be so. The reservation I applied for earlier concerns, in particular, Uppsala. Today we have our JAS-plans based in Ronneby, Såtenäs and Luleå, and we need to supplement with Uppsala. It is necessary for us to be able to defend ourselves as needed, not least in Mälardalen. We also need to ensure that we have reserve air bases that enable us to spread the aircraft. Today, when we do not have this available, it is far too easy to knock us out. We need to change that, and we need to make sure that we extend the basic organisation so that we can use these side bases effectively. There is also much that needs to be addressed when it comes to civil defence, such as cyber attacks. Having said that, I would like to end by mentioning that NATO is turning 70 tomorrow. Sweden is today a close partner of NATO, which is great, but we should become a full member in the future. This would strengthen protection both for Sweden and for our neighbours. That is what it is ultimately about when we discuss this – that the Swedish people should be able to feel safe from external threats. That is why it is important that we now invest energy and add the money needed to get a defence that works even in tough times.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-479	Madam President, I would like When you've been doing defence policy for a few years, you realize how true the French expression is – to want and to be able are two completely different things. Four years ago, the Parliament took a decision on a war organisation which, with reference to previous speakers, would include two fully equipped, joint army brigades. Now the army commander told us just before Christmas that there will be one, and this despite the fact that there have been financial additions during almost every year of the current defense decision-making period. Just the day before yesterday, there was also an internal audit report from the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration, which revealed considerable costs in the material project that Roger Richtoff previously touched upon, namely the acquisition of the medium-range anti-aircraft robot Patriot. I have already requested from the chairman of the Committee on Defence that we should know the extent of this increase, because it too will of course affect when the Committee on Defence will now build on a war organisation that is in parallel with the security policy situation in Sweden. Madam President, I would like In the 2009 defense decision, the People's Party, now the Liberals, insisted that a tank company be placed in a garage on Gotland. This proposal was ridiculed both by our political competitors and by the media. The then Operation Commander told me that he could imagine a hundred actions, with a higher operational impact, that needed to be taken before this was done, Madam President. Our thought, or rather Jan Björklund's thought, with the tanks on Gotland was that they would eventually be manned once they had been placed there – and that they would practice on Tofta's field of fire either day. This has now happened, and we add new units to Gotland, which is by far our most strategic country, every few years. Those who have seized Gotland have the opportunity to decide whether military assistance can be brought from the west in an easterly direction in the event of a conflict in the Baltic Sea. With today's military technology, Gotland would be lost to Sweden and the rest of the Swedish mainland would be extremely difficult to defend. We support the development with a remilitarisation of Gotland, but we notice that current planning does not fully exploit the island's strategic potential. It's fine with grenade launchers. It's good with anti-aircraft guns. Mechanised dressings are good. But we also need resources that enable us to act against an opponent before he gets ashore on the island. If he can do it, it's almost too late. That is why, Madam President, we need to add high-precision long-range robot weapons to Gotland. Sweden already has this type of weapon in its arsenal today, and if they are placed on Gotland, they are in a position to intervene against everything that threatens us on the real Baltic Sea. Madam President, I would like With this, I would ask you to accept reservation 4.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-485	Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report. At the moment, as we have heard from several Members, the Committee on Defence, led by the former President and Minister of Defence Björn von Sydow, who, moreover, lives in my municipality, is in full swing to complete the final report. It will be presented to Peter Hultqvist in May. Of course, an economic framework must be negotiated. It's a challenge. The wish list is long. That's what we're hearing here today. We must make use of the existing infrastructure, which Daniel Bäckström was working on. Several of the members of the Committee on Defence who sit in this Chamber are members of the Committee on Defence. I'm not one of them. The task of the defence committee is to follow the security policy developments in the outside world and present its views on important long-term defence and security policy issues before the Government's proposal to the Riksdag. In the first quarter of 2020, a new defence decision will be developed. With the current defence decision, Parliament has decided that the objectives of the military defence from 2016 onwards should be to defend Sweden and promote our security individually and together with others within and outside the country. The Government has also stated that the Armed Forces should contribute to the objectives of our security and the objectives of the military defence by solving the following tasks individually and together with other authorities, countries and organisations: 中 maintaining access to peace and preparedness for increased preparedness to prevent and manage conflicts and wars and to protect freedom of action Supporting security through participation in operations on our own territory, in the immediate vicinity and outside the immediate vicinity 中 discover and reject violations of the Swedish territory and in accordance with international law safeguard sovereign rights and national interests in areas outside it With existing capabilities and resources, assist the rest of society and other authorities if necessary. I will try to visualize the present situation in view of the actual period of growth facing the defence. Yes, you heard right: growth period. But in order to do that, we need to look in the rear-view mirror. We shall see the Swedish defence ahead of us as a large cargo ship that left the port a number of years ago, full of abilities and materials. Everything was on board: plenty of staff, plenty of officers, weapons, specialist knowledge, airplanes, submarines, surface combat vessels, helicopters, technicians, chefs, etc. We had a strong defense. During the long detour that the ship has made, some material has been unloaded in some port and some abilities in some other port. Now that the ship is back on land, you might think it's empty, but it's not. There's a lot of defense left. Best of all, there's a little left of almost everything. Now this big ship will start to reload, and then it is important that it is loaded right. Competence remains in most areas. But in some areas the skills are narrow, important and very sensitive. Madam President, I would like Now to the point! It's a matter of loading this ship right now. Logistics isn't always easy, my friends. If it is not loaded correctly, the ship will have a list and edge. There is concern from the point of view of expertise. The next defense decision is important. The defence decision to be submitted for a decision of quite exactly one year in this House will determine the development and growth curve of the defence in the future. That is precisely why it is so important to wait for the Defence Committee's report and to listen to the expertise within the Armed Forces before any other decisions, like the proposals in the motions set out in this report, go through. Such decisions can cause this ship to become very difficult to load, and then it is not certain that we will achieve the effect in the case, namely to produce a robust and durable Swedish defence. Madam President, I would like With the latest and still valid defence decision, which related to the bill Defence Policy Orientation – Sweden's Defence 2016–2020, the Riksdag approved the Government's proposal for targets for the military and civil defence respectively and a proposal on the main direction of military units in the Defence Forces Organisation 2016. In addition, the Riksdag approved the operational capacity requirements that the Riksdag had previously decided would expire. The Riksdag did not take any new decisions on new operational capability requirements for the period 2016 – 2020. On 9 January 2017, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist decided on new instructions for the Defence Committee's continued work, which forms part of the basis for a new defence policy decision. Again: In May, the Swedish Defence Committee presents its final report, which forms the basis for the new defence decision to be submitted to the Riksdag during the first half of 2020. Madam President, I would like Let us now navigate the ship correctly and fill it with a difficult content! I would therefore like to support the proposal contained in the report.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-498	Madam President, I would like We're talking about 11⁄2 percent in the Defense Committee. It is clear that this will be the subject of a discussion. But my question is really: are not those who sit in the Defense Committee talking to the party leadership about the objectives that we have now set, such as this by 11⁄2%? If you don't do this, if you don't focus on what happens in a defense committee, you end up a little behind, I think. Then there is the fact that it is not just about the budget when it comes to the Defence Committee, but also about other things. I won't take this opportunity to ask you questions that may be difficult to answer. I limit myself to the communication between those of you who sit in the Defense Committee and your party leadership. Madam President, I would like I would also like to take this opportunity to say that I think Björn von Sydow is doing an excellent job, and I have said so as well.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-501	Madam President, I would like I was hoping for a line from Roger Richtoff. Thank you very much for it! Of course there are discussions on the budget. But I can't stand here and tell you about them, Roger Richtoff. We do not have to explain exactly what we are talking about, but of course there is a discussion about the budget. It's very important for the future. We hear here that the wish list is long and detailed– actually very detailed in some places. Nevertheless, I would like to say something about today's defence. It's slimmed down. At the same time, however, we have a qualitatively more modern defence with a range of capabilities but without quantity and perseverance. That is something we should strive for, and of course it costs money. I got caught up in something Roger Richtoff said earlier. It was that he wants seven brigades. One brigade consists of 4,500 soldiers. That's 31,500 soldiers. That's a lot of soldiers. Today we have two brigades. I have to put a question back to Roger, because the honourable Member himself is in the Committee on Defence. I'm sure you're discussing things like this. How is it possible to reach seven brigades with the human resources available to the defense today, and within what time do you see it before you? That is a detailed question.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-506	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the last question. We are talking in our long-term plan that we in the Swedish Democrats have presented about 2033 – 2034. We're approaching about 22,000 conscripts. In the long term, you have to call in conscripts. But you can't do it fast. That is why we have put forward a long-term plan for it. We need to build infrastructure and several garrisons for the conscripts. We need to train officers, who are a key to this. It'll take time. But 2033 is a measure. That is what we have moved forward every time because, strangely enough, our policy has not had an impact here with a common direction, Madam President. But now I think we are approaching what we have proposed. We have fought for an increase in the budget for this. Now we're at 1.5%. Although you do not find it interesting to talk to your party leadership, it is surprising that you sit in the Defense Committee day after day without talking about this. You have given the impression that it is anchored. Why don't you tell me? It's about the 1.5% with numbers. I don't want to say too much about what's written. But these are enumerations, and the whole development is priced. The honourable Member should also be able to respond to this. Why don't you do this? Why do you not signal: We ask to return to that in the Defense Committee? It's only recently been about that. A brigade does not always consist of 4,500 men, but it can vary. It is not just those units, but it is the reinforcement units that we have not mentioned here at all. There are thousands of men. That's the size of it. You may have to call in 40,000 to cover that need in the long term for our brigades.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-510	Madam President, I would like I repeat myself. Of course there are discussions on the budget. When I hear Roger Richtoff tell me about the expertise he's sitting on, I think like this. I've read into the area. Roger Richtoff has been a member of the Defense Committee for a long time and is a member of the Defense Committee. I am a new Member, and I marvel at the details that come up. Somewhere I think we should do more with what we want to achieve. It's the abilities that count. I want to finish the line shift by saying this. Larger dimensions can be smarter, sometimes. But the right dimensioning at any given time is the smartest.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-512	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the Committee on Defence's report with the name "Military issues", which includes the motions received during the exercise last autumn and descriptions of how they meet the agreements we have in the Swedish Parliament today on defence policy and the investigations that are being set up and are now being carried out. This is taking place pending the final report of the Defence Committee, as many have said here before, which will form the most important basis for the preparation of the next defence policy proposal. The final report of the defence committee with an overall assessment of the development of security policy and its consequences for Swedish defence and security policy will be presented next month, in May. I look forward with great interest to take part in this work and then, together with the other parties in the Swedish Parliament, make wise, long-term decisions on Sweden's future defence policy direction. I hope that we will continue to do this together. The modern concept of total defence, with renewed commitment to civil defence, is very welcome in these times. In this report, the committee proposes that the Parliament rejects all requests for motion, mainly on the grounds that there is no reason to anticipate the ongoing work on a new defence policy. It is wise, and while I remember it, I support the committee's proposal. There are some motions in the report which I know will not be dealt with within the framework of the Committee on Defence, as it were. One of these concerns Vättern, a drinking water source that today supplies a quarter of a million people with drinking water and, along with it, is a training field for bomb - shooting. I think we can all understand that it is problematic to bring together two such opposing interests as water protection for drinking water supply and bombing by air, military practice. Water protection areas are normally surrounded with relatively strong restrictions and should be so. Although we who listened to the P1 programme Caliber the other day were concerned that drinking water is not really sufficiently protected. There's also a job to do. Pure water, as we all know, is vital, and if it is something that drives conflicts and starts wars, it is a lack of water. From a total defence perspective it seems strange to me to continue to practice in Vättern. Many people, very many people, depend on that water to maintain everyday life, and more want to join the Water of the Vätter. Örebro is on the move, and the Mälardal region has also shown interest. I also know that we have decided that the military must have an opportunity to practice more in order to be fit for fight, so to speak. The question we ask ourselves from our party is whether the water supply Vättern is the best place to do it. The exercise that I refer to here today is about investigating the conditions for moving the defence activities away from the lake. That is something that I think would be wise to consider and investigate further. We also need to link the test shots in Vättern with the specific sector responsibility for ecological sustainability that the Swedish Armed Forces have based on our agreed environmental goals. This sectoral responsibility is now formalised into a common defence environment cooperation. That's very good. It will be interesting to follow that work. In the Swedish Armed Forces' instruction, the Government has commissioned the Authority to take environmental considerations into account in its activities in peacetime. Within the framework of the environmental work, the Swedish Armed Forces will contribute to achieving the generational goals for environmental work and the environmental quality objectives set by the Riksdag and, if necessary, propose measures for the development of environmental work. This is what it's working on now. I have great hopes that, within the framework of that work, among other things, we will continue to discuss whether the water supply Vättern is really a suitable place to test the shot in. Then maybe we'll find that's not the case. Then, together, we will find a solution to safely and safely take care of both these important interests, the protection of drinking water supplies and the training possibilities for our forces. We have an overall objective for this work. We must protect the lives and health of the population, safeguard the functionality of society and safeguard our ability to uphold our fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights. I have great hopes that, once we have heard the final report from the Swedish Defence Committee, we will agree on how we will work in the future to do exactly what it says.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-523	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have been raising the question for several years that the environmental testing process needs to be more time efficient – this in order not to unnecessarily hinder the Swedish Armed Forces' need for training areas. The Parliament has addressed announcements to the Government on this subject specifically, as has also been pointed out in the current report. Today, environmental objectives are being tested in a comprehensive process, which, of course, we have no objection to. However, our position is that the Swedish Armed Forces must be exempted from the usual rules on environmental testing, given the special status of the defence as a preserver of national security. Nevertheless, it is still the case that the process may take several years from the date of receipt of the application up to the date on which the matter is finally dealt with. This in itself is remarkable, as there are no laws that prevent more efficient handling. If you look at the design of the law, it is explicitly stated in both the Environmental Code and the previous Natural Resources Act that in cases where national interests stand against each other, the defence should take precedence. The environmental code also contains an exception clause for the defence. This paragraph may be used by the Government to override the provisions of the Environmental Code if this is deemed necessary for the needs of the defence. In particular, we see the need to reduce the time needed for new applications for environmental review when the Swedish Defence Agency is building new operations. In principle, all permit procedures should be completed once the Swedish Armed Forces' personnel are ready to start the new operations. But this has not happened. It seems that the fundamental problem is that we have a government that does not use the possibilities provided by the legislation to enable the Armed Forces to operate fully. So the problem does not seem to be legislation in itself. For the Swedish Democrats, we believe that it is a must to ensure the defence's access to the training areas that have been applied for as soon as possible. With this, Madam President, I support the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 1 and 8.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-528	Madam President, I would like I will add to what I did not have time to do in my first speech. I was on the plane. I want the number of base battalions on this issue, because it needs to be increased. The clearance pans need to increase sharply in order to get the fighter into the air. That means, as I said, an increase in the number of flight fleets. We have mentioned Söderhamn as an example, and there are also other places. We believe that an attack robot to the JAS Gripen E would be appropriate. One such is Taurus. It can be applied to JAS Gripen E and is an excellent weapon. We have fought for it, and we will fight to introduce it. We also have the hunting robot Meteor – one of the world's best hunting robots. I would also like to mention the environment. Among other things, the Torpedo workshop in Motala shoots from there towards its goals in Vättern. There are several reasons for this. One is that the material, the torpedoes, survives much longer in fresh water than if they were shot in salt water. Now one takes a certain environmental responsibility, namely by shooting torpedoes that do not sink. Instead, they lie down on the surface like a buoy. The important thing is the direction and function of the torpedoes, but they no longer sink to the bottom. One takes a certain environmental responsibility, and I think it is very important to do this. There are several reasons to review this, but it is now about the torpedo workshop at Vättern. I used to live there myself. The ability is good, yes! But details are also important, and we are also involved in the Defence Committee. It should be comprehensive, and one should have a certain ability. But then you have to switch down and look at how we get this ability. Yes, we get it with another number of brigades. And what will this brigade look like? Then we're down to another level of detail. In conclusion, I say, do not subsidize wind power! Expand the new generation of nuclear power!
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-534	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by agreeing with Lars Püs's motion. It is interesting to listen to the debate and the various speeches, because there are many aspects to defence that we need to discuss. What made me ask for the floor was that Marie Axelsson said, and repeated, that the wish list is long. That's not really true, because there are no wish lists we're dealing with in the Defense Committee and elsewhere. These are action lists to deal with the vulnerability that Sweden has when it comes to crises, wars and conflicts. The defense committee has been working for almost two years. We have spent the time only for a whole year analysing the civil part of society and the vulnerability that we are experiencing. Over a year ago, we put forward more than 70 concrete proposals in which we were in complete agreement across party boundaries. Almost none of these have ended up in the workshop. We're talking about security of supply, we're talking about food supply, we're talking about water, we're talking about cyber attacks and we're talking about rows of things like this. That is what we read about every day, and that is where concrete measures are needed. This is where a defence of our modern society is required and where a great deal needs to be done. In the second stage, the Defence Committee is dedicated to analysing the security policy situation based on how our military defence should be found. These aren't wish lists we come up with. We are assessing a situation in which the uncertainty in our close environment is worse today than it was a number of years ago. This is also why the Swedish defence has moved from a focus on focusing primarily on international efforts to – and back to – looking more at their own house. How do we defend Sweden's borders? How do we ensure that no one comes here and tries to decide in our country? This is incredibly important and incredibly difficult. At the moment, the Defence Committee is in a discussion that of course concerns different parts, but there are still no wish lists. We are trying to find the form to strengthen the Swedish Armed Forces from a low level. It is not about big, amazing processes where we can promise gold and green forests. But we want the ability to work, and it is in many respects very simple practical things. As we take in more conscripts and train them to participate in combat, we want them to have boots, shoes, equipment and a meaningful task. That's where we are, and nowhere else. And there we have a huge problem right now: the government and government parties do not want to tell us what level to land at. When trying to put forward a proposal, as the Defence Committee should do, one must have a framework that says at approximately what level one can expect the budget to be in the coming years. It means very much what level it is about. The priorities are quite different depending on the amount of funding you can count on. If we can't agree on that, then there'll be wish lists. Then it becomes a pickpin of some kind that does not lead anywhere. But the ambition of us who sit in the Defence Committee is to present a long-term proposal that ensures that we get a stable strengthening of the Swedish defence. A few wish lists we should not devote ourselves to, so tell us what money you are prepared to spend!
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-543	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Beatrice Ask, for your speech! I want to start by telling all of you who are listening and watching that I have enormous respect for the work that is going on in the Defense Committee. What I see and hear indicates an amazing job, and you spend a lot of time. That is a good thing, because we need that in order to be able to properly load this ship, the defence, just as I did in my speech. Talking about wish lists is perhaps something I do as a new Member, who in fact sometimes hear these proposals for the first time. But I understand that everyone comes with their input and analyses in the Defense Preparation and that it is now in the final phase when everything will be a result to be presented. I would be foolish to anticipate the preparation of the report on financial appropriations. But I want to go back to what I said before: of course the economy is being discussed.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-546	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that explanation, Marie Axelsson! I see. I myself am not very experienced in the field of defence policy, because I have not been doing it for many years, at least not in the present. It is clear that it is foolish to anticipate the Defence Committee's report. But there may not be a report if we do not know what to gather around. The purpose of the Defence Committee is that it will present a long-term sustainable proposal that will preferably hold over elections and that we can gather around. That's how the defense should be. This is what I want to say. This necessitates that we gather around a frame or a bottom plate, so that we know where to make the priorities. Because there's a difference between a low level and a higher level, depending on what you can do. I do not belong to those who believe that one should go land and kingdom around and promise regiments here and there and one with the other, because that does not hold. In addition, I believe that it is the Swedish Armed Forces that should decide in many of the details. However, as national politicians, we must take responsibility for a decent framework and for the main priorities. In addition, the Swedish Parliament must make decisions about the war organisation. These are pretty important decisions. However, we are tied up at the moment, and that is a major problem. I also think it is important to make the debate about the need for strengthening the Swedish defence. For a long time many people have forgotten why we should have a defence and why we are today in a position where it takes some effort to get to an acceptable level.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-551	Madam President, I would like I would like to return to this with the detour on which the ship was out and to which I referred earlier. The defense shrunk and shrunk. But we're in a situation where we still have a lot of abilities left. We have specialist skills. It is fragile, but it is important to preserve and develop what we have. We shall take responsibility for deciding on a reasonable framework. It should also be held. There must be a long-term plan and a framework to be kept in place. There I think the Armed Forces, just as you were at Beatrice Ask, have experts and can see where the gunpowder should be placed. It is important to take this into account. I have great respect for the work of the Defence Committee, led by Björn von Sydow, and I think it should be possible to agree that we should have a growth in Swedish defence. However, precisely in accordance with the report, we shall be waiting for the report from the Defence Committee in order to be able to make a wise decision that will apply from 2020 and the next five years. We know that the lead times in defence decisions are long. Decisions taken today can be seen after quite a few years. That is also why we are where we are now and are very vulnerable. There are defence decisions that go back to 2004 that affect the situation that today we have so few officers who can train the conscripts. These were decisions that were made early, and we are many different governments that have made decisions. But right here you can see that officers are missing. It can be attributed to 2004 and other defence decisions. Now we have to move forward. We have to build. We have to get the Armed Forces right.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-557	Madam President, I would like After all, it was not a detour that the defense was on, but it was actually like this: when the Berlin Wall fell, virtually everyone realized that eternal peace had arisen, and so we dreamed away from the harsh and sometimes insecure reality. Now we have realized that eternal peace had not happened and will have to pay dearly for it. The defence committee has devoted quite a lot of energy to going through Statskontoret's and ESV's various reports on analyses, forecasts, costs and so on because we in the Defence Committee and elsewhere often have to wrestle with black holes in the budget. There are costs that have not been anticipated. We have taken the impression of this. We were given additional directives to do so when it was already done. That's good. But one thing is that you have to hold on to the money and know what you're doing. It is also necessary to decide on a level if a multi-level programme or proposal is to be presented. If you don't have a level, it will just be a general wish list from different directions, and then it will run in all directions. If one can gather around one level, everyone can also relate to it and make sensible priorities within that framework. My hope and ambition in this work is that we will land there, so that we can strengthen the Swedish defence from a far too low level in the long term. It's a venture for the future. I want my children and grandchildren to live in a peaceful world. I want Sweden to be the free country that is developing and stable. Then we must dare to invest in proper home insurance. The Swedish Armed Forces and efforts on civilian preparedness are part of this.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-563	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the report on upper secondary school, which is based on 61 motion requests from parties and Members this autumn. Last autumn, you know that we had a transitional government that was largely unable to take any initiatives, and we did not know what intergovernmental cooperation would look like. Then these exercises came in. I argue with the stubbornness of a fool that we need to find a common understanding and common objectives in order to increase the results and ensure that more people become eligible for national programmes. We need to increase equivalence and increase society's confidence in school. There is also a need for a common understanding of how to secure and study at school, for more people to want to become teachers and for more teachers to stay in school. There are proposals in the report we are now debating where there is a consensus. I am thinking, above all, of the inclusion of subject grades in upper secondary school. That's all the parties behind it. But there are also other proposals, such as improving the planning and dimensioning of upper secondary education, continuing to develop business schools and improving the interaction between education providers and the social partners. There's a consensus, but there's something else, too. I believe in a school policy based on research, on proven experience and on collaboration between the profession, the social partners and the whole surrounding society. I also believe in learning throughout my life. This is my entrance to this debate. Madam President, I would like For most of us, high school is a vital part of our life's journey. A degree from upper secondary school is the ticket to work, studies and adult life. Of Chapter 15. Section 3 of the School Act states that upper secondary school education must provide a basis for national and regional skills provision in working life and a base for recruitment to higher education. But high school also needs to be equipped as a community education institution. Knowledge and education have never been more important than now. At a time when democracy is challenged by extremism and false propaganda, this constitutes every man's best defense and the primary defense of our free society. In a troubled world, those who come to Sweden must learn Swedish and be given good opportunities to quickly acquire the knowledge needed to get to work and become part of society. When climate change risks changing everything, increased knowledge is needed to limit warming and change society. Education and training shall contribute to economic, social and environmental sustainable development. Knowledge is security. Knowledge is strength. Knowledge is power, and it will be shared by all of us. Madam President, I would like I would like to comment on some of the proposals we are dealing with today, which relate to professional programmes, because I think that is very important. First of all, we have an acute shortage of skilled workers today – from all professional programmes. Vocational programmes must become more attractive to apply for. We need to ensure that more young people see a future in becoming child care workers, car mechanics, bakers, treatment assistants, concrete workers, postmen, bus drivers and shop assistants – and all other professions that do not start with B. There is broad agreement on how we could do this. The Swedish business community, its trade associations and trade unions as well as the students themselves, in fact, are behind a proposal that would increase the attractiveness of the professional programmes. It is a question of introducing general university qualifications into professional programmes with the possibility of opting out. It could be turning the steak around so that all students who are looking for, and their parents, can feel confident that the roads are open in the future, against jobs, against universities of applied sciences and against universities, no matter what programme they choose. Be a baker! Then become what you want. There should be no forced dead ends. Unfortunately, the bourgeois parties have written a motion against this. It is pointed out that it is good as it is and that it is the rector's responsibility to ensure the right to higher education qualifications. It is not often that motions are raised in the Riksdag, which insists that we have what we have. I would like to say: listen to reality! Edvin, who is currently studying the construction program, told me that he would like to enter the university qualification. It went well in number one. Now in second grade, he was faced with the choice between studying the wet room wall or studying the math course. In practice, therefore, he was forced to choose between becoming a qualified carpenter or becoming a university graduate. Edvin is one of many, as I hear anyway. Is it supposed to be like this? No, of course not. There are many good examples, where it works, but we Social Democrats want the opportunity to apply to everyone. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 6. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal in the report. The S-V-MP reservation is a rejection of the proposal by the bourgeois parties and SD to introduce a two-year vocational school for those who are not eligible for the national upper secondary school programme. I have three reasons why I think it should be rejected. The first reason is: we also see that there are certain groups that have challenges. There's too many people who leave school without access-- that's what I said earlier. It has increased the need to adapt upper secondary school to the individual student's conditions. The government has therefore allowed the National Agency for Education, together with the industries, to produce 51 professional packages. They're buildable, and they're national. There's a bit of cloun in the whole thing, I'd say. I think it's wise to do that. If you are not qualified for the care programme and want to become a nurse, just like me, you can first become a nurse and get a job through an introduction program. Then, if you want to move on to become a nurse and get that brooch, you can study at komvux. Nurses are one of the world's best professions starting with U. I think this is a good thing. I believe in occupational stairways. I think we should develop this instead of having a two-year vocational school. The second reason is: it is too early to evaluate this. Another form of school is not the solution to upper secondary school problems. We are concerned about this with flexibility. This concerns the student's flexibility and adaptation to the needs of each sector. This also applies to the duration of the training. This is missing from the proposal. The third reason is that the proposal provides for a two-year vocational school to be highly relevant to the labour market. The question is how relevant the proposal is. No one's asked for it. Technology companies are calling for professional workers with at least three years' training, preferably with more points, as the government proposed in June; unfortunately, the proposal was rejected in this House. The transport companies and the hotel and restaurant companies are also making their thumbs down. The construction industry e-mailed me yesterday. They said: Do what you can to let this proposal end up where it belongs, namely in the trash! That's a quote. I would like to know whether any industry organisation has asked for this. Perhaps the bourgeois parties and SD know something that I do not know, but then they will be happy to tell me in this House today. We've got a moment. If we can find a consensus, I'm happy. Madam President, I would like A choice that you make at the age of 15 to 16 should not be limiting. Everyone, including those who choose the career path, has the right to be a part of lifelong learning. I can see that the bourgeois parties continue to resist, but I still think it will be clear that more and more people will have to build on their skills, retrain themselves and perhaps change paths several times during working life. We must invest in knowledge for the future. It is about freedom, security and competitiveness.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-590	Madam President, I would like We in the Moderates are obviously behind all our reservations today, but for time winning I choose to apply only for reservation no. 11. I would like to start by reminding the Assembly that by the autumn it would have started about 100 000 pupils in upper secondary schools around the country but that almost 20 000 of them never became eligible. That is the case, Madam President, even though we know that the single biggest reason why a young person becomes a criminal is that it has no upper secondary school qualification and that we know that people without full primary education belong to the group that is absolutely the furthest away from the labour market. For these individuals, doing what we can to create as good opportunities as possible for education and for work will be crucial to ensure that everyone is allowed to contribute. We need to create more pathways into the labour market, and that is why the Moderates propose the establishment of a two-year vocational school that can lead either to jobs or to further studies. Unlike the courses available under Arbetsförmedlingen, vocational education becomes a clear part of the regular education system. The training is designed in close collaboration with the business community and must include workplace learning. An evaluation from the Swedish National Agency for Education 2016 shows that the introduction programs have major problems with succeeding in granting students upper secondary school qualifications. Only 30 percent of students go on to a national programme after three years. Almost half dropped out completely. A vocational school would mean significantly lower thresholds, and this is needed. Madam President, I would like Something that always strikes me is how bad we in Sweden are at equipping our children and young people for the future. Not even 30 percent of the ninth graders have a clear picture of the upper secondary school programmes to choose from, and 45 percent feel that they do not have an adult to turn to in matters of high school and the future. At the same time, we are surprised when it drops out of nearly 10,000 students each year. In addition, there are many who change the line in the middle of the education, which can lead to up to two years of extra study time. And yet we have not talked about the SEK 2.3 million it costs per year. We Moderates want each student to meet with a good study and career guidance in combination with an individual study and education plan, that students should have the opportunity for training in different upper secondary programmes and that the way into the labour market should be clear, whether it goes through higher-level studies or not. When you start high school, you usually have three years to graduate. In three years each student should have about 2,200 hours of teaching time. That is not the case today, far from it. The high school inquiry shows that the number of hours is low, and the students testify to teacherless lessons and long and many hole hours. The Moderates therefore propose an investigation to ensure that all students receive the teaching time to which they are entitled, for that is the only way we can expect higher results. My focus has come to be precisely on employability, and I would therefore like to mention the particular focus of Moderates on business schools. In Sweden, the matching between education and work needs to be significantly improved. With niche industry schools focusing on those areas of work where there is a great shortage of skilled labour, we can create significantly shorter pathways to jobs. With the development of apprenticeship training and the development of the form of upper secondary apprenticeship employment, we can find a better balance in terms of needs and demand.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-599	Madam President, I would like Noria Manouchi talked about lower thresholds and cooperation with sectors in the field of vocational education. Then I had to ask for a line, because I didn't really get it together. I spoke about the professional packages that the industries have developed based on the needs of the labour market, and I think that we should develop them. I kind of don't understand the whole thing about a two-year vocational school. If so, which industry will you cooperate with? I want to know. And what does Noria Manouchi mean by the need for lower thresholds? After all, you are presenting a motion here in Parliament to raise the admission requirements of professional programmes so that they should be the same eligibility requirements as for preparatory programmes in higher education.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-602	Madam President, I would like What we see is that the introduction programs are not working. They do not solve the challenges we face today, and so we are proposing a shorter, intensive vocational school to simply lower the thresholds and create opportunities for students who most often end up out of the labour market more easily to get a foothold. With regard to the question of university qualifications, I find it rather remarkable when the Social Democrats stand on the pulpit claiming that the bourgeois parties and the system we have today make it impossible for students to become eligible for higher education. That is simply not true. That possibility exists, and it exists for everyone. If it is the case that municipalities and principals, practitioners in school activities, somehow make it difficult for students to get the education to which they are entitled, we have a bigger problem. But the system is designed for every student to have the right to choose. Freedom of choice permeates the system. That doesn't mean it's getting harder. It only means making more choices, and that is a positive thing, because it creates more opportunities to individualise their education.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-605	Madam President, I would like It is clear that Noria Manouchi and I have quite different views on choice. Is it the right of the school and the headmaster to choose, or is it the student's right to choose in the system that we have today? I know there are a lot of good examples. Many of the schools and professional programmes that actually recruit the most, including Ellwynska School in Katrineholm, which recruits the most health and social care students in the country, succeed in doing so. But when it doesn't succeed, isn't it better to turn it around and make it mandatory, add points and add money, which we planned to do last year, so that it will be easier both for students and for principals to get the calculation together? Returning to the two-year vocational school, it was said that lower thresholds are needed into the labour market – was that it? But the labour market doesn't want this. They have clearly and concretely talked about what they need for labour. You can actually cut it up. If you are going to eat a whole elephant, it can sometimes be good to divide it into pieces and take one piece at a time. That's the thing about lifelong learning. You can become a nurse in the introductory program, assistant nurse in Komvux and nurse at the university. That's what I think it should be.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-609	Madam President, I would like If Mrs Helmersson Olsson wants more control and better scrutiny, I agree with that. But what the Social Democrats need to ask themselves is whether it is more important that everyone reads the same and thus is deprived of freedom of choice and formed in the same Social Democratic idea than that each student has the right to choose, and that they almost 50 percent plus the 30 percent who do not go on from language introduction or introduction programs until after more than three years or who quit completely should be given the opportunity to an education. One needs to ask which is most important: education or no education. Today, it is in this situation that many students are standing. You just drop out. If we are to lower the thresholds and make it easier, we need proposals such as the Moderate Vocational School to give these students the opportunity to choose a shorter route to the labour market rather than the long way out into exclusion.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-611	Madam President, I would like V in Sweden democrats naturally support all our reservations on this matter, but for time we only ask for reservations 2 and 7. Since Sweden is a small export-dependent country in northern Europe, it is of the utmost importance that we do everything to ensure that Sweden is a world-leading knowledge nation. When countries in Asia, such as Singapore, Taiwan and Korea, invest heavily in education, linked to technology, among other things, it is all the more clear that Sweden must make much more effort to have a world-class school. A world-class school may seem to be an ambitious goal, but anything else would be devastating to our country. Just like comprehensive school, the upper secondary school in Sweden also wrestles with serious problems. There are far too many dropouts from upper secondary school programmes. The throughput takes far too long. Too many students do not enter the theoretical program of upper secondary school at all. In addition, upper secondary school has become a repair shop for lack of prior knowledge from primary school. This is in line with the fact that comprehensive school has not been able to keep to its knowledge goals. Joy certificates have simply been awarded, and when students arrive at high school, knowledge is not at the level that can be expected. This is, of course, a generalization, but it nevertheless highlights a common phenomenon. When I meet teachers, not least in my hometown of Malmö, this is something they always promote, namely that comprehensive school does not hand over students with sufficient basic knowledge. The deficiencies continue during high school years. The signals from universities and colleges have been exactly the same. At the very least, it concerns the knowledge of mathematics and modern languages. There they have even had to introduce pure beginners' courses so that students can pass university studies. If Sweden wants to be a world-leading knowledge nation, this must change radically. Having said that, I can also say that high school teachers in Sweden generally do an amazing job. With the conditions they have and the input values available, it is good that no more goes out with incomplete grades. Many people are still able to enter universities and higher education institutions and then get into work with good skills. It's a tribute to all the teachers. But from a political point of view, it is our duty to ensure that teachers can work from the outset on the basis of the level of knowledge that students are expected to have, not what they actually have. The education aspect – the education assignment – must be re-entered into Swedish upper secondary school. In the political debate, I have often been told that there should be high expectations of students. That's great. It is good that there should be high expectations of the students. The problem is that it is usually a lot of talk and a little workshop. It is not enough to say that there should be high expectations; the level of ambition must be raised in general. It is not enough to aim for more students to be approved or for more students to be eligible for higher education institutions. There's got to be more. What position will Swedish upper secondary school coke have in 5 years, 10 years or 25 years? How are we going to get more world-leading scientists?
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-621	The discussions are completely absent from the political debate, not least from the left. These issues should be the most important ones, but instead Swedish school policy has long been characterised by objectives other than the knowledge mission. The link with universities, higher education institutions and the needs of the labour market must therefore be made much clearer. Just as important as it is to give support to students who are having a difficult time in school, it is equally important to push out pupils who are special. It is not enough, as it is said today, to give extra challenges. It has to do more than that. Sweden should develop a clear strategy for how to train special students, in order to develop world-leading researchers and entrepreneurs in the future. Upper secondary school needs to be restructured and political rhetoric changed. For too long in the political debate it has been presented as less worth not gaining higher education skills. All students should simply continue at the university. This is and has long been the line of the Social Democrats, and when we from other parties have said otherwise, the protests from the left have also hailed. The protests have really been hailing. No deviation from this view is acceptable in the world of Social Democrats. We Swedish democrats disagree. There is no reason to force all students into education that gives higher education qualifications. We already see problems with municipalities at all costs promising students to get into their first choice. Therefore, more classes are being expanded on the social science programme. As a result, the dropout and the failed school results come. Not all students simply have the ability or the will to study theory. The Social Democrats must also recognise this. Instead, it seems that it is time in school that is more important than the content and that one actually gets something out of the education. Instead, the Swedish Democrats believe that study guidance and career guidance must be considerably sharper in order to steer pupils into appropriate education. The strengths and weaknesses of the students must be made clear to them. We have a great need for labour in several practical areas. Our vision is to make strong investments in polytechnics and apprenticeships. Then upper secondary school, and adult education, must also be organised accordingly. We also want to introduce two-year secondary programmes for those students who prefer practical education rather than theoretical ones. Rather less education than no education at all, and rather shorter education than drop-out from upper secondary school. For those who change their mind from high school – most 16-year-olds do not really know where they are going in life; it is natural that they change their mind – these two-year education programmes should be built on with a third year that gives university qualifications, if the student wants to. In this context, greater flexibility must be built into the system. However, in the political debate three-year training courses apply, and there is no other design that can be useful. We would rather talk about a two-plus-one system, i.e. two years at school with a one-year extension opportunity to study university qualifications. This can be done in the immediate future, for example in adult education. This proposal should not run counter to the ambitions of making Sweden a world-leading knowledge nation. On the contrary! The previous individual program was for a long time a grieving child. It was the fastest growing high school program, and the results were all but satisfactory. Only one in four students managed to get through a national upper secondary school programme within a five-year period. The individual programme was replaced with introduction programmes, but the new model has not changed either. In practice, we see the same results as before. Worst of all introductory programs is the program language introduction. The programme is for young people who have just arrived in Sweden. The breakdown of migration policy has obviously had a negative impact on the programme. The skills of the students differ greatly. It is from students with primary school behind them to those who have never set foot in a school at all. It is, of course, untenable to teach constructively on this basis. We therefore believe that better classifications of groups in education are needed in order to distinguish between those who have primary education and those who do not. But it is not just language introduction that causes problems in this regard. The political debate has also been largely about new arrivals entering ordinary classes as soon as possible. The time in the introduction programmes is thus shorter than it should be. When new arrivals end up in ordinary upper secondary school classes, teachers spend an enormous amount of time on students who, for the most part, cannot benefit from the education at all. In addition, there is a risk that teachers will have to adapt the level of teaching and thus lower the level of knowledge in order to include everyone. This isn't sustainable in the long run. Upper secondary school must be just upper secondary school, and the requirements for entry must be tightened up. The Swedish Democrats also want to see a return to a high school with pure subject grades. I have previously interpreted the signals from the Social Democrats as having wanted the same. But now that we see what has been discussed in connection with the so-called January agreement, I can see that it will probably be the usual Swedish school policy solution, that is, a completely new system, a mischmasch, a mix of the old and the new – once again. The Swedish Democrats are deeply sceptical about this. The reasons for the introduction of the course grades and the course-designed upper secondary school were many, but we note that the system has not least led to unnecessary stress for students. For example, the student who fails the first upper secondary school course in mathematics falls directly behind. With pure subject grades in upper secondary school, there are more opportunities to improve the grade. We also believe that the percentage of drop-outs and re-elections will decrease radically if we introduce this. On Friday we will have an up-to-date debate on threats to teachers and principals in school. That is an important issue. A prerequisite for learning is that there is order in the classroom and that the school is seen as any workplace. Nowhere else in society would we accept the working environment that now exists at several schools around the country. Threats, violence, knives, yes, you've seen the headlines in the papers. We Swedish democrats want to get to the bottom of this. For far too long, much has been said about the problem, but few solutions have been presented. We believe it is time to act and forcefully. Move the students who bully! Move the students who threaten! Move the students who practice violence! Move the students who bring knives to school! They don't have school to do. They shouldn't disturb the other students. There must be an end to this here and now. Give teachers all the tools that are possible and needed to keep order! Is there any doubt in the school law? Be sure to correct them — quickly! Finally, Madam President, it cannot be stressed enough how important it is for the state now to take over the head office of the municipalities. One effect of the municipalisation in the 1990s is that the school has become increasingly unequal and segregated. Many municipalities find it difficult to reconcile the economy, and since school is the single largest item of expenditure for municipalities, it is also the first to feel savings. A government headship would not only ensure equality between secondary schools in the country but also strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-641	Madam President, I would like I noticed that Patrick Reslow has some prejudice about Social Democrats and perhaps did not listen to everything I said. For us Social Democrats, this is about lifelong learning, equalising differences and allowing people to have opportunities. Now it may be that I too have some prejudice and did not listen carefully enough either. That's why I'd like to ask Patrick Reslow if he said that syv should clarify strengths and weaknesses. Did he mean to sort students in gifted and unadvised? In what way? Did he also say that not everyone has the ability to read theory? I would like to ask Patrick Reslow this.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-644	Madam President, I would like I really thank Caroline Helmersson Olsson for asking these questions because she thus symbolizes exactly what I said, namely that the Social Democrats have never understood the meaning of school fatigue or the meaning of not being interested in further studying at college. In fact, not all students have the capacity when they are 16 years old to decide that they should go to college or university. Maybe you're not interested in it. Most of all, you'd like to quit school. The recipe of the Social Democrats in response to this has been that you should be forced into one and the same form. That's where you're going. Don't come here and say anything else! Everyone must be qualified to the university. It's been the recipe. Let's say no. That's wrong. When we talk about highlighting weaknesses and strengths, it's about syv saying, "We think this is good for you." This would be a solution. Make sure to join a two-year programme with the possibility to supplement later if you want, because when you are 18 you may have completely different conditions than when you are 16. Maybe you have a completely different will when you're 18 than when you're 16. ..................................................... That's what it's all about. But, as usual, as soon as you talk about it, the Social Democrats talk about sorting students. The Social Democrats have not understood the problem of school fatigue, and I thank Caroline Helmersson Olsson for having made it visible in this debate.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-649	Madam President, I would like To quote Patrick Reslow, don't come here and talk to me like I don't know what this is all about! I dropped out of high school myself. I've been tired of school. I joined the health and social care program, and when I quit here I will actually study the university qualification and become a folk high school teacher. Our view of lifelong learning is not just that you are going to university. I talked about education, about the importance of knowledge and education in today's society. Chance of chance, the stairs, the occupational stairs – it's Social Democratic politics!
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-651	Madam President, I would like Lifelong learning, yes. I do not know what is difficult for Caroline Helmersson Olsson to understand when I talk about two-plus-one systems. People who are tired of school and who at the age of 16 can not under any circumstances imagine that they want to study at university or college but then change their mind will then have a chance to supplement. It may be in immediate connection or later in life at Komvux, as Caroline Helmersson Olsson had heard that I said if she listened. It's life-long learning, isn't it? The upset on the part of the Social Democrats is about something quite different. You want to make them all in one shape. Everyone must have higher education qualifications, and then everyone must have exactly the same education and foundation. You can't imagine any flexibility. This has marked social democratic education policy for decades. It is tragic, Madam President, that the Social Democracy has not gone further than that.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-653	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 11. Of course, the Center Party supports all of its reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 11. Completed upper secondary school studies are a door opener to work and further education. This academic year goes over 350 000 pupils in upper secondary school. The vast majority of them receive good teaching and stimulating challenges and have skilled teachers and principals at their side. It is important to remember when we debate this. But not all students are doing well. Too many leave upper secondary school without sufficient conditions for either work or further studies. Today, as many as one in four high school students either drop out of school or leave school without a full grade. The basis for more people leaving upper secondary school with a complete grade is laid in comprehensive school. It is partly about getting more pupils to qualify in comprehensive school so that they can apply for national programmes in upper secondary school and also about getting more students to choose the right education from the beginning. Today, mischoice is a major problem. Many young people feel uncertain when choosing upper secondary education. The price for choosing wrong and having to change education is high for the individual, who can have their degree postponed one to two years. It also costs society large resources – a report from the Swedish National Agency for Education shows that the error rate costs an estimated SEK 2 billion per year. The error also impairs the matching of the Swedish labour market. Therefore, the link to jobs and entrepreneurship needs to be strengthened throughout upper secondary school. Students need better information so that they can make the right choices from the start, and better interaction with the labour market is needed so that more people can make an informed choice. Study and career guidance also needs to be strengthened. Students who do not have upper secondary school qualifications end up in the introductory programme of upper secondary school. This academic year, nearly 52,000 students attend the introduction program. It is a decrease compared to previous years, but there are still a lot of students. The main problem of the introduction programme has been to succeed in granting students upper secondary school qualifications. An evaluation from the Swedish National Agency for Education from 2016 showed that only 30 percent of the students had moved on to a national upper secondary school programme three years after they started language introduction and that almost half had stopped attending upper secondary school altogether. For those students who do not currently enter the national programme of upper secondary school, there should be a first way into a profession or bridge to further deepening. It is therefore a good thing that the Education Committee today wants to review the possibility of setting up a new two-year vocational school, which leads to jobs or further studies, as a regular part of the education system. The courses must of course be shaped in close collaboration with the business community and contain a large part of workplace learning. They must be of high quality and have high relevance to the labour market to become a way out of work. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants to see more proposals for education to lead to jobs. The link between studies and the labour market needs to be improved, regardless of whether you are studying a theoretical programme or a practical education. Today, many industries are without labour, while the classrooms of professional programmes are empty. In order to attract more students to the vocational programmes, the Center Party wants there to be several different directions: the focus on strengthening professional competence, and a focus on general or special university qualifications. In this way, you create conditions both for those who want to focus on professional subjects and for those who want to continue studying at the university. The professional programmes must, of course, be of high quality and must be designed together with companies and potential employers. This is the most important thing in order to improve the status and quality of vocational training. The apprenticeships of upper secondary schools must also be expanded and broadened. It is gratifying that the number of students studying apprenticeships has increased in recent years. Over the past three years, the number of pupils in apprenticeships has increased by nearly 50 per cent. However, the development of the Swedish apprenticeship system and the Swedish apprenticeship training is too slow, and the impact on the Swedish labour market has been too small. One reason is that very few apprentices, only 200 – 300, are offered employment as apprentices, unlike in Germany, where it is usually the rule that apprentices are actually employed. The Center Party therefore wants to see an investment in more apprenticeships, which means a right for companies to hire apprentices through upper secondary apprenticeships, with an hourly salary corresponding to the means of study, and an increased remuneration for employers who employ upper secondary apprentices. Madam President, I would like For the Center Party, it is also important to enable more students to study entrepreneurship during their upper secondary school studies. Entrepreneurship is important for developing new ideas and developing as an individual and for turning this into some value creation. Young Enterprise is clearly associated with the course in entrepreneurship. Most people in this hall have probably met with some UF company that has sold a product or a service that you didn't know you needed until you actually bought it and solved a daily problem you had to face. Young Entrepreneurship has many positive effects, especially for individuals. Studies and research studies show that those who have run a UF company have higher wages and lower unemployment rates and to a greater extent run companies later in life. These are impressive results. This year, a new record for the number of students running UF companies is once again being broken. This is a fantastic development. At the same time, we see great differences in the ability to study entrepreneurship depending on where in the country you live, which school you go to and which programme you read. For the Center Party, it is therefore an important issue to enable all students at all schools to study entrepreneurship and be able to take part in that education.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-671	Madam President, I would like Society and the labour market are changing at an accelerated pace, and the demands for knowledge and skills are increasing. More people will need to develop skills in their profession or completely change their career path when old jobs disappear. The reason why I started with these sentences is the initiative that the former Alliance, together with the Swedish Democrats, has developed to introduce a two-year professional programme. I think that this issue is basically, as Caroline Helmersson said earlier, about giving everyone a chance in life, and about not cementing class differences in our society. I wish I was ten years old and naive and thought that all parties in this House raised this issue because they really want the best interests of high school. But after reading the proposal, and many other earlier proposals from the right-wing parties, I have to say that the aim is once again to create a sorting school. It is a proposal aimed at cementing the differences not only in our school system but also in future working life, if you even get there. It is a proposal which, like many others, such as the proposal that not all national programmes should grant higher education qualifications, aims to create a society that makes a distinction between those who are easy at school and those who need some extra support. Therefore, as a left-wing party, I can never support this proposal. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 20, but I naturally also support the reservation we have with the S and MP on this issue. The Alliance is talking about not creating dead ends in the Swedish upper secondary school. This proposal is a dead end. I will take an example from the debate we have had in the past on university qualifications for all upper secondary school programmes. There, virtually all industries, industry, trade unions, school staff and school researchers agreed that the best system we could have in Swedish schools is that all programmes in upper secondary school give eligibility for further studies. It is not a question of us wanting a society in which we force all our young people into further studies, but of creating a society that gives those who want the opportunity to study further. We know that in the increasingly changing Swedish labour market it is a minimum requirement to have these competences in order to be able to further train and take on new tasks. Now, as then, the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats on this issue are opposed to the research that exists, and they are going against the companies and the trade unions. We do not believe that a further form of school is the solution to the problems of upper secondary school. We are concerned that proposals are being made by the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats, who are in danger not only of weakening our school system but also of cementing the class differences, as I mentioned earlier. Mathematics is useful not only for those who are to become engineers or doctors but also for those who are to become construction workers or are to work as nurses. It's important to society as a whole. It is a bit hypocritical when, on the one hand, the Alliance wants more mathematics in primary school, and on the other hand it wants to lower the standards for upper secondary school. We know from national and international school research that high positive expectations of our children and students are one of the recipe for success in order to reach higher levels of knowledge in the Swedish school. This is a proposal that goes exactly the opposite of what research says. I will return to the example of mathematics. It is, as I said, useful not only for engineers and doctors. It can also be useful for Members of Parliament to present their receipts, for example. I would like to go further and talk about our Left Party reservation 20, which concerns the new arrivals. Several studies and studies point to a simplified picture of the basic knowledge and language skills of asylum seekers and new arrivals in the Swedish school. This, of course, affects their ability to succeed in schooling and acquire the knowledge they need. The school is also often highlighted in research as an important place for the development of newly arrived children and young people. The school is important because it creates structure in everyday life and gives children and young people the opportunity to create social networks and the opportunity to learn the Swedish language. A long waiting period for a school place therefore risks affecting the well-being of asylum seekers young people. At the same time, asylum seekers and newly arrived children and young people and their schooling are areas that we unfortunately do not have enough research into, and the situation varies across the country. One of the shortcomings in the Swedish teaching of new arrivals is that many new students experience difficulties to be included and that they stand stuttering or, in the worst case, risk going backwards on the way from primary school to upper secondary school's introduction programme but also from the introduction programme on to national programmes. One of the problems with the school's view of newcomers' language learning is that they focus too much on what students lack rather than what they have with them. School needs to be much better at taking advantage of their desire to learn and be more flexible. In Forte's report, newly arrived children and the Swedish reception structure, the problem is described as follows: New arrivals become a group that is presented on the basis of shortcomings and difficulties in school, and those who do well are highlighted as individual exceptions. There I could say that politics has a part to play in that description. Week in and week out standing in the speaker's chair and speaking negatively about the newly arrived children and what a problem they are for our Swedish school is not something that makes the Swedish school system easier. The preparation classes and introduction programs can sometimes also pose a problem according to several researchers, partly because of the physical isolation in the larger school context, and partly because many remain far too long on the introduction programs. Another problem is the view of the language and that it is the individual teacher who is allowed to decide in which language students should present their knowledge. We also know from the research that the language skills you already have can help you learn new languages. More efforts on study supervisors in the native language and more efforts to include students are the ways forward. Today, the lack of upper secondary skills is a major obstacle to entry into the labour market. The newly arrived group has many years ahead of them in working life. Locking them in poorly paid jobs with precarious employment would be detrimental to both them and society at large. The Left is convinced that we need to raise the level of education of all those who lack sufficient skills for jobs in the labour market rather than creating jobs with lower qualifications. The major problems today are that the school system is not adapted for those who have applied for asylum in Sweden. In order to qualify for a national upper secondary school programme, a newly arrived student or asylum seeker needs to first go through an introduction programme. Students on the introduction programmes are in many cases, as I mentioned earlier, separated from those who read on the national programmes. One opportunity to solve this problem is to expand the opportunity to study single courses while going to the introduction programme, to improve inclusion and strengthen the sense of development and progress of these students. That is why we in the Left Party believe that the government should investigate this and make a proposal. Having said that, Madam President, I would just like to say that we, the Left Party, will always be on the side of the weak. We will never agree to separate and sort the students in the way that the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats want to do.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-697	Madam President, I would like Wasn't that what I said, that when we start discussing a different solution than the one that the Social Democrats and the Left have always talked about, the Left will scream out loud? Let's hear this. The classical Communist slogans even emerge: cement class differences, sorting school, sorting policy. This is not what this is about, Daniel Riazat. It's about giving students a chance, students who otherwise drop out of high school or finish high school with failed grades. But Daniel Riazat may think it's a good thing. Perhaps that's what Daniel Riazat exists on, that there are people who don't make it in life, who don't finish school, who end up in deep unemployment. What is Daniel Riazats's recipe if you are tired of school and do not want to go to school if you cannot cope with school? The only thing we have seen in practical terms is the policy that you have always supported, that is, no change at all – three-year high school programme, nothing else. And I do not hear anything in Daniel Riazats's speech suggesting anything else. We want to see less exclusion in society. That is why we are proposing the two-year programmes. We also believe that new arrivals to Sweden can benefit from them, as most upper secondary school studies are not enough. We see this in the dropout and in the failure of the study results. But what are Daniel's Riazats and Left Party options?
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-701	Madam President, I would like I have to start by saying that it is very typical that when the argumentation ends from the right, and the extreme right wing in this case, you simply have to talk about things that you probably haven't read a single book about. The solutions I mentioned for about ten minutes in the speaker's chair. It shows a lack of respect that you, Reslow, have not heard one of the proposals I mentioned from the pulpit. On the one hand, it is about investing more in study and career guidance at school, and on the other hand it is about having high and positive expectations, and on the other hand it is about more resources for the school. It is about extending the right to study guidance in native languages. It is about having a school that is equal and equal throughout the country. It's about having a school where profit-making actors don't come in and take billions of our tax money annually, which they get backing from the Swedish Democrats here in Parliament in order to continue doing. It's about a school that doesn't sort students according to the way they think they're going to make it based on their class background or origin. It's about building a school that's for everyone and not just for a few. We know which societies and which school systems work best, because we have had one of the systems that works best, and that is the system that includes. It is a system that does not create and cement class differences from lower ages. It is the school system that the right has not been left to decide, and that is the school system that I defend: a school system for all children.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-705	Madam President, I would like It's kind of funny to hear Daniel Riazat standing here saying I'm not listening to what he's saying. Daniel Riazat is usually good at mastering quite so much in the speaker's chair and flaunting himself in various extravagances. He calls people right-wing extrema and whatever it is he's evicting. I did not hear anything in your speech about how to deal with the fact that people are tired of school and that it leads to drop-outs or failed school results. We need to think new. When I was in the speaker's chair, I said that we Swedish democrats want a two-year education but with the opportunity to read another year, a two-plus-one solution. This would mean that students who are tired of school when they apply to upper secondary school 16 years old and who then get an interest in school – there are actually many who get it during upper secondary school time – should not be prevented from reading further. The problem has been that the only option that has been available is the three-year lines, and then you jump off or go driving and get bad grades. The fact that we have more resources, more study guidance and everything Daniel Riazat talks about does not solve the problems of school fatigue or poor school results. The only conclusion I can draw is that Daniel Riazat is satisfied with the current situation of exclusion at school and that people do not get the chance they should get, and that is regrettable. I said from the beginning that the Left jumps high when you start talking about something that lies outside the Left's frame of ideas.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-710	Madam President, I would like That the representative of the Swedish Democrats, Patrick Reslow, has not listened to my speech or my lines, I cannot take responsibility for. Patrick Reslow will have to take it with him after the debate. I have come up with a number of suggestions based on school research, on teachers' unions' opinions and on proven experience in school. The Swedish democrats are very far from this. The Swedish Democrats' and the Alliance's proposals for a school that sorts, a school with unlimited profit-hunting, a school that you cut down on to lower the taxes for the richest and a school that should not stick together but cement differences does not go together with research, with what those who work in the school want and with what is best for our students. Let me give a tip to the Swedish Democrats for the next debate: listen a little more before you ask questions, and when you get the answers show respect and do not pretend that you have not heard them.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-713	Madam President, I would like Last Monday I took up office as a Member of Parliament, and yesterday I attended my first meeting of the Education Committee. With this start-up, it is important to be able to participate in the debate in this House as early as day three when we are discussing important issues relating to upper secondary school. Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, but in order to save time, I am only calling for reservation 11 paragraph 9 on the extension and strengthening of apprenticeship training. Through my background as a school nurse for ten years, I have met many school - tired students who have struggled hard to get through school. We humans have different talent profiles. Not all of them are theorists. On the contrary, many have a practical talent and can become excellent professionals and professional women, and society needs craftsmen, such as electricians, plumbers, industrial workers, painters, construction workers, carpenters, and so on. The supply of skills to several of these sectors is, in the long term, a major challenge for our society. Madam President, I would like For some of these students, even the subject-oriented theory of professional programs can be an insurmountable obstacle. Such theoretical courses can become a millstone around the neck of the person struggling to get through school at all. For them, vocational apprenticeship training can be the rescue because most of the study time is located in a workplace. They just get to learn the job at work. It is now recognised that the most important protection against being affected by both economic and social vulnerability and mental ill health later in life is to have graduated from school with approved grades. This increases the student's opportunities for work and self-sufficiency. What I have now described may also apply to a large extent to many newly arrived students. They may have a poor schooling after growing up in countries with varying educational systems or after years on the run without any possibility of an orderly schooling. Of course, we will do everything we can to give these young people the opportunity to study both upper secondary and higher education skills, but for some of them apprenticeship training can be a good way to achieve independence and self-sufficiency. Today, however, too few apprenticeships are available. This can mean that school-tired students or prominent practitioners are more or less forced to attend upper secondary programmes with more theoretical courses than the person can handle, which can help to strengthen the sense of failure and in the worst case in the long term lead to exclusion. The Alliance government reintroduced apprenticeships in Sweden. It has increased the opportunity for more young people to get a job. Through an announcement in spring 2016, the government was to investigate broadened and strengthened skills provision. Three years have now passed without any visible result. Madam President, I would like That is why I support the alliance parties' reservation 11.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-722	Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all of our reservations, but I only ask for reservation 13. When I listen to this debate, I am reminded of when I started high school politics in the city of Västerås in 2002, first as a Member and then as Chairman of the Education and Labour Market Board. One might think that nothing has happened in this area, but that is not true. The reason for the reform of upper secondary school in 2009/ 10, in particular with regard to vocational programmes, was of course the many drop-outs and exclusions that these young people ended up in and that the vocational programmes did not prepare pupils for working life. You know what? We're still hearing this. We see how companies or companies together with municipalities build up their own vocational schools and programmes to better satisfy their skills needs. I don't have a problem with that. We must not, however, believe that it was better in the past, and we have certainly not reduced the requirements for entering upper secondary school vocational programmes or university preparatory programmes. When we sat in the government, we raised the requirement from three approved comprehensive school subjects in the so-called three subject school to eight approved elementary school subjects in order to be able to enter a professional programme at all. This has certainly helped to raise expectations and hopefully quality. Liberals believe that upper secondary school needs to broaden its range and create more opportunities. We need college-preparatory programs. For many years, we have been pushing for questions about professional programmes, apprenticeships, trade apprentices and business schools – and now, of course, the proposal we are supporting on two-year professional programmes, to which I will return, Madam President. Let us be positive in the debate on professional programmes. There are 4,700 more applicants for upper secondary school vocational programmes. That's an increase of 11%. And we have an increase in all professional programmes in upper secondary school. But the fact that this is the case cannot be believed when you listen to the debate. There has been a trend break in vocational programmes at upper secondary school, and the Liberals welcome it. What is most in demand right now by the industry is upper secondary vocational education. There is a lack of such competence. To continue to develop and improve this must therefore be the aim of all of us members of the Education Committee. The reason why there are not even more people attending vocational programmes and that it does not reflect everyone who is applying for vocational programmes from primary school is, of course, that they are not eligible. They do not meet the criteria and entry requirements of comprehensive school. The general problem, which affects the entire education system, is that comprehensive school does not deliver enough. This has been the case for as long as I have been a school politician since 2002. There are about 17,000 unauthorized students entering upper secondary school, and about 20,000 young people leave upper secondary school after three years without a complete upper secondary school degree. The introduction of two-year vocational programmes or schools does not apply to those who are qualified, but now we are talking about those who come from primary school to upper secondary school and who do not get a place on a national programme because they do not have competence, or about the other target group, namely newly arrived young people with a short period of time in Sweden. For obvious reasons, they do not have a chance to achieve the whole subjects of comprehensive school in one or two years and then to enter a national programme. How do you, who are critical of the proposal, want to deal with the 17 000 who come to high school? And why are you talking so little about the 20,000 leaving high school after three years? They should of course go to Komvux or independent actors and read and read about, and some should complement. I have no problem with that, but we must realise and accept that this is the reality that prevails in Swedish high school. The general upper secondary school debate has unfortunately been about higher education qualifications or not, but what we should be talking about is why there are so many from primary school without sufficient prior knowledge and why we still fail in the case of upper secondary school by continuing to knock out many young people. When it comes to PRIV, introduction programs and language introductions, it has been a political experimental workshop for the last 15 to 20 years. The quality is poor. Students are not getting the right education. It is not qualitative and does not fully prepare them for working life. Why do the Social Democrats say no to two-year vocational schools for these young people when the Migration Agreement said yes to shorter courses, which can be in both five and six months as well as one year? Why should I say yes to professional packages in one year but no to two-year vocational school? You have to explain that to me. Two-year vocational schools for young people are longer than the so-called professional package, which exists in some localities in certain areas. I think it's 51 so-called professional packages. There is no logic in your arguments against introducing two-year vocational schools. You owe the answer. Tell us about the challenge, as you call it and which is not just a challenge but a problem, that young people do not get an education and do not learn the Swedish language in Sweden! They will end up in exclusion and unemployment, and here you are voting against and saying things that we have not even proposed. You do not take responsibility for these young people, but we will. We shall have good upper secondary education, professional training, apprenticeships and apprenticeships, and we shall have quality measures. It can be good study and career guidance, more qualified teachers and good industry collaboration, because that is when we achieve the goal that upper secondary school should prepare for working life but also for higher education.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-737	Madam President, I would like It will be a very strange time here in Parliament if it is so that those who are going to introduce something that no one basically supports should ask those who do not want to introduce it why they do not want it. I requested the floor to ask you, Roger Haddad, because it is you and not us in the red-green parties who owe the answer: Why is it so important for the Liberals to make proposals here in the Swedish Parliament time and time again about dividing the Swedish school, sorting pupils and cementing differences in early ages that continue throughout school life? Why is it so important to always talk about professional programs? You hailed them and told us to be glad they've increased. We're so happy. We have even written it in our reservation in the report. Why is it that the alliance parties, and perhaps mainly your party, always have the view that the children from working-class homes or the children who want to go on to vocational programmes are worse, that they cannot and that they cannot be expected? You're the one who owes the answer. Why do you want to create a sorting school and pass young people on to a working life that will not be receptive to them?
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-741	Madam President, I would like We have more who leave comprehensive school and who are qualified for upper secondary school, and we have more who leave upper secondary school with a complete upper secondary school degree. Unlike the Left Party, I choose to keep to the facts: The Swedish National Agency for Education's reported statistics that progress is actually moving in the right direction. You're completely wrong, Daniel Riazat. Performance and pass-through of vocational programmes are increasing. It is a trend break in the throughput even for those who study on vocational programmes. It's not like in your time, when you just got in, but you didn't get out. Now you actually get out with an education too. However, this debate is about those who do not get into the national programmes, and you have still not proposed anything for that target group. We can't just conjure away the 17,000, they're real. You owe the answer to where they're going in the high school today. Don't make me do things about sorting school or the fact that we separate young people! I have followed secondary school policy for the last 15 to 20 years and can show you examples of sorting schools. I think high school is starting to go in the right direction, but we have a problem in that many from comprehensive school do not come in and that many newcomers need individual adaptations. That is where we put forward proposals, but you do not have any proposals.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-744	Madam President, I would like It is very encouraging that the Left Party, which has never ever been in government in the history of Sweden, should take responsibility for a school policy that was put through at the initiative of the Liberals the last time. As for the school we have today, and as you, Roger Haddad, stand here shouting at me about it is your party that has passed the laws and the Left Party that has resisted. This happened, among other things, during the time when your party and Jan Björklund were in the Ministry of Education. Perhaps you can take that discussion internally in the Liberals if you are dissatisfied with the policy you conducted during eight years of alliance government. When it comes to the right direction, it does so in some parts. As I said before, we have also entered this in our reservation. But now we are not talking about this issue, but about the two-year professional programmes that you want to legislate to introduce. How do we improve the current situation by having lower expectations and by pointing out a certain group of students and children in our society and saying that they will not make it? In what other business or organization would it work that a manager comes in and from day one says that a person will not make it? How many people will then be motivated to put energy into wanting to make it? I believe that this creates differences. No, the Left is not the answer to this question; it is Roger Haddad and the Liberals. Why do you once again want to sort out the students, as you did for eight years with alliance government, as you did in the 1990s by introducing various different reforms that have divided Swedish schools and that you continue to do today through these proposals?
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-749	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat gives a real-world view of high school. The results have gone up. You have to admit it, Daniel Riazat. You cannot bring forward some kind of left-wing statistics, but we must stick to facts and statistics. And you're wrong, and I'm right. As far as these students are concerned, they are already attending upper secondary school in the critical orientations that have been called language introduction, career introduction, program-oriented individual choice and so on. The reason is that they have come to upper secondary school without permission. Some go to a national program. But a great many people are excluded from the national programmes because they are not in a position to manage an education. This also happens in teacher training, so it is no wonder. However, we believe that these people must be offered vocational training that does not exist today. You can't have it as a lottery so that you in Västerås offer 15 hours. But now the government is going to impose some sort of decree in 23 hours. And in a municipality you can read about topics that you are already approved in and so on. It's a myriad of experiments that you can't reasonably support. The people who go to national programmes and on to the university directly from career introduction and language introduction are very few. What I think we should focus on is ensuring that both those who go on the national programmes and those who are unable to get in because they do not have enough prior knowledge should also be given a chance. That is true social liberalism.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-754	Madam President, I would like I thank my colleagues in the committee. What we are discussing is a broad report which consists of a wide range of requests for exercise on upper secondary school submitted during the general period of exercise. Of course, I support the environmental-partisan views of our party movements and committee movements discussed in the report. The report is the result of considerations that we have made in order to get through as much green policy as possible. There are a number of really important issues in the report. For example, work is being done to strengthen agricultural upper secondary schools. There are a wide range of issues here and also some that lie outside what comes at the heart of this debate on how we strengthen the quality of the introduction programmes. In her speech, Caroline Helmersson Olsson strongly pointed to the responsibility that exists in upper secondary school for learning for sustainable development and how it can be strengthened. I should like to make three points in my speech. But before that, I will say that what may possibly give a slightly divided picture of this debate is that we have two truths at the same time in Swedish school. On the one hand, we have improved knowledge results. The hard work done in Swedish school bears fruit. More students are learning more. This is visible in the international knowledge measurements, and it is also visible in our own statistics that now show that more students are finally qualified to move forward from primary school to start a national programme in upper secondary school. At the same time, we have a growing inequality with all that it means. It's about students not being able to grow up and become the adults they want to be and take control of their lives. It's about the work as a teacher getting tougher and tougher. It is about increasing segregation and divisions in society and the problems that arise inside the classroom and in schools, such as the problems of order that we have discussed in this debate. On the one hand, we have a lot of hard work done by teachers, principals, student health and employees at schools around Sweden, and not least by students in high school who are trying hard to reach their dreams and realize their goals. On the other hand, we have a much too weak school system. Just as the OECD shows in its evaluations of the Swedish school system, teachers and students are simply not backed up by a sufficiently strong system that provides the support needed for the school to really give each student the opportunity to decide over their lives. This is where the issue mentioned in the report comes in as a piece of the puzzle in how we strengthen the school system itself. There is, as I see it, a broad consensus because we want greater government control over the dimensioning of upper secondary school. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to point out three priorities for the Green Party. The first is that we must do everything we can to combat mental illness among young people. When we discuss the various reasons why young people today do not bring with them the skills and degrees they need in order to take power over their lives and take a job – we often do so in the Education Committee and in education debates – this is one of the reasons we discuss the very least but which means the most. I have been active in folk high school, and when I meet people who work in folk high school, they describe how many of the students in folk high school have come there precisely because the pressure and mental illness they experienced during high school years made it impossible to complete a high school education. Of course, mental illness has many different causes. It is not primarily a result of the school system but a result of society as it stands. This is one of the reasons why we together, the state and municipalities, should set a goal of a completely queue-free child- and youth-psychiatry and set it in an agreement between the state and SKL. The goal is cleverly formulated in such a way that if we are to achieve this, we must strengthen child and youth psychiatry and the other parts where one can meet the general in mental illness, such as pupil health, but of course also collectively and purposefully give us the reasons why young people feel bad, such as inequality, and make special efforts for those groups where we see that mental illness is particularly great. Although mental illness is not fundamentally the result of the school system, we have parts of the school system that increase mental illness. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. We're going to have a school system that gives people the tools to take power over their lives and live a life they're happy with. Instead, we have parts and ingredients in the school system that increase mental illness. The bullying, which we have discussed in other contexts, is, of course, part of it, but also things that we have regulated. We know from evaluations made that today's rating system leads to more mental illness. There are two pieces of the puzzle in the rating system that need to be changed in the future. Among other things, it is about getting rid of the grades in high school and instead have subject grades, which are involved in this report. It is also a matter of changing the grading system in such a way that a single element does not break through so that the students feel that they are only judged by what they have the most difficult for. These two parts – partly how the steps are weighed against each other and partly the course grades – are ingredients in the rating system today that slow down mental illness. That's gonna change. The second priority that I would like to mention and which has been raised by many in the debate is that we need to have a school system that does not have dead ends and where there is a possibility of lifelong learning and which protects the crooked education journey that is the vast majority of people. When people look back at their lives, the vast majority can describe that they have done different things, taken different steps and that it was rarely the case that they stood on a point and knew exactly where they would be in 10, 15 or 20 years. Since people do not know it, and because very few 16-year-olds know it, we need to have an education system that provides the opportunity for real lifelong learning. There is a problem today that so many people who study the vocational programmes do not get university qualifications, not so that everyone will then choose to study at the university, but to discover too many later that they might want to apply to the university and then find it more difficult to do so. In addition, today's system creates the problem that students who would prefer to study a professional programme and see that they want to work in the profession and in the industry that a professional programme prepares them for opting out because they are unsure whether they will really be able to get the university qualification that they want as an opening and an opportunity at some point in the future. Instead, they go to a higher education programme and may not be able to do it because they are not as motivated as they might have been if they had studied a professional programme. Of course, there must also be freedom of choice in higher education qualifications. The proposal from S, MP and V does not mean that all students read all the subjects required for higher education qualifications. This means that you still have the opportunity to opt out. But, as Caroline Helmersson Olsson put it, it reverses the trick. From today's rather complicated choice of subjects to obtain higher education qualifications, this means opting out of subjects if you do not want higher education qualifications. Our line – that we want to avoid dead ends – is also one of the reasons why we are sceptical and concerned about the proposal for two-year vocational training. We therefore have a reservation on this. There are good arguments, for example, that there must be ways forward in order to be able to qualify early for a profession and, above all, if you have a short educational background or if you are one of the people we meet today in various introduction programmes. However, we believe that all of this is covered by today's professional package. The professional packages are available in different lengths precisely because they are adapted according to what knowledge you need for a specific profession. They are also buildable. Even if you have participated in a professional package and started working in the sector for which the professional package prepares you, you can later complete upper secondary education. We simply think that this is a better model than the fixed form of two-year professional programmes proposed by the bourgeois parties. The third and final priority I would like to address in this first speech on a long-standing exercise report, Madam President, concerns the importance of aesthetic topics. These subjects have a significance throughout the Swedish school system for three reasons. First of all, aesthetic knowledge has its own value, like other knowledge within the Swedish school. Property values are often very difficult to describe. How do you really describe self-worth? A principal did it in a way that was right for me. He said: Since we started working with aesthetic learning processes at our school it has become much calmer. I think it's because the students have found different ways of expressing themselves about things that are otherwise difficult to express themselves about. This can be a way of aptly describing what aesthetic skills can provide. Secondly, we have a growing labour market for creative industries. A couple of years ago it was estimated that 94 000 people worked in the creative industries, where aesthetic skills are essential for contributing to their work. In addition, many of us who work outside what you usually call creative industries have discovered that it can be quite good to master Powerpoint and do it in such a way that someone can understand what it says. It can also be good to be able to make a speech in a way that actually makes someone want to listen. This, too, lies within aesthetic competences. Thirdly, the kind of aesthetic learning is that it gives clues to other learning. If you're going to understand geometry, it's good to have visual understanding. Many can also testify to how they have learned to read and write in a deeper way through musical texts. This is one reason why we are still working to ensure that aesthetic subjects are also available and as part of all upper secondary education. Today there is no majority in favour of this, states the committee's assessment. But this is still our policy, and we share it with several parties.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-776	Madam President, I would like We in the Moderates are obviously behind all our reservations, but for the winning time I only agree to reservation no. 19. Mr President, I would like to I would like to start the debate with a statement by Ulf Kristersson: Integration is the destiny of our time. Personally, I would say that the learning of the Swedish language is the great issue of freedom of our time. It is about the freedom to ask about the way, to understand what the child's teacher says on the quarter call and to be able to read the call to the mammography. It is also about the freedom to be able to apply for a job and to be able to take a job, to be able to read a content for tea in the grocery store – Nuts or no nuts? – to be able to communicate with police or firefighters and to be able to seek help if necessary. For many in Sweden, learning Swedish is the biggest issue of freedom. It is a matter of being involved or being kept out of it. Hundreds of thousands of people are in a precarious situation today. When we as a state and society are unable to offer sufficient opportunities and when we as a country do not have sufficient demands and expectations, we fail. We fail every individual and society at large. Mr President, I would like to Swedish for immigrants and adult education must be fundamentally reformed. We need a national adult education grant, which enables students to choose their own performers. It can be private or municipal. This would also create the possibility of actually opting out and simply rejecting poor quality. It is time to introduce frivux. The Alliance government appointed the Frivux inquiry, which in 2008 produced its report Frivux – Freedom of choice in adult education. On the basis of this study, a reform of freedom of choice should be implemented. In this system, a new hold would be required if responsibility were required. Learning Swedish is not only the fastest way into society but also the best way into the labour market. The Moderates propose a new compensation system based on performance. It should be a performance-based system that simply means that the better and faster the students learn Swedish the higher the remuneration gets the performer. We believe that this would create a streamlining which is currently lacking. Mr President, I would like to You could really go even further and say that practitioners who help students to get a job should get a bonus. This round obviously needs to be combined with high requirements and proper control that ensures good quality and prevents cheating. We therefore propose a change in the regime of supervision. Today, systematic supervision of adult education is carried out only at the level of principals. We believe that the School Inspectorate should be tasked with reviewing each activity at unit level. As I said, adult education needs to be fundamentally reformed and made more accessible and multifaceted. Above all, however, results need to be re-focused.
i-JY3gi55hwRksB7iUwvKmbE	Madam President, I would like First of all, allow me to endorse reservations 5 and 8. Adult education is strongly linked to the discussion we have just had about upper secondary school. The problems facing upper secondary school are in most cases also problems facing adult education, at least in terms of educational choices and prior knowledge. I am therefore not going to prolong the debate unnecessarily, but I am referring to the relevant parts of the speech I just made on upper secondary school. The Swedish adult education system is in a way unique. There are few countries in the world that can compare themselves with us when it comes to the possibility of further education later in life. We in the Swedish Democrats think it is a good thing. That's how it has to be. If it is something we have learned in recent decades, it is that the world is changing and that social development is moving faster than we have ever thought. Therefore, there must also be opportunities to adapt quickly to the demands and challenges of new times. The Swedish Democrats also see that there is a major mismatch in several sectors of society. Adult education serves a great purpose here. This, of course, presupposes that basic education itself is so good that it is easy to acquire new skills. This is also one of the reasons why we say that if you have attended a two-year upper secondary school, if you do not do so directly in connection with upper secondary school, you will have the opportunity to take a supplementary course later in life, that is, a two-plus-one solution. The Swedish Democrats therefore think it is a good thing that there is a division between preparatory and vocational programmes in upper secondary school. This also places demands on municipal adult education. To meet students' needs for education, komvux must be well-developed. Young people should be able to complete their education or to change their direction completely, and adult education must also create real opportunities for this. Today's adult education system I would like to describe as very sprawling. It's the municipality that's planning. It is the municipality that procures. It is the municipality that operates its own operations. The regulations also differ greatly depending on which municipality you are in. It is difficult for all actors, not least those from the business community, to orient themselves in this thorny jungle. That is precisely why we Swedish democrats believe that adult education, like primary and secondary schools, must be given a state headship. In particular, the business community would benefit from this, as more time could be spent on improving the quality of education and reducing the time needed to adapt to the regulations of different municipalities. Adult education must also ensure that the skills of shortage professions are strengthened. This is closely linked to our view of investment in vocational upper secondary schools, polytechnics and apprenticeships. We therefore want to see increased investment in a number of industries that need labour. Among other things, we see that the Swedish mining industry is in need of competence. We believe that there is a need for training places with a focus on mining and mineral activities, preferably in connection with the locations where mining is carried out. We also see the possibility of this being done at a distance by exploiting the technical possibilities available for this. Another sector where there is a great need for labour is the steel industry. Today, this industry is very high-tech, and it is important that we provide the industry with the right skills in this area. We see today that much too weak training efforts are being made – more efforts are needed that are linked to the steel industry. Here, too, we see the advantages of distance learning. A third sector that we highlight in our exercise is the haulage industry. We want to see strong investment in adult education in the haulage industry. In the near future, there is a shortage of bus drivers, for example. We therefore believe that the number of training places for professional drivers should be increased. The same applies to the forestry industry, which for a long time has highlighted the difficulty of recruiting skilled staff at various levels in companies, not least in sparsely populated areas. Finally, Mr President, we Swedish democrats believe that the demands for SFI education need to be substantially tightened up. This applies not only to the requirements of attendance and results, but also to the content of teaching. We want everyone who arrives in Sweden to know Swedish society well. We therefore want to see a compulsory social orientation for all those who are granted a residence permit. This must include teaching in rights and obligations, but also teaching that gives knowledge of Swedish society's culture, history and values.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-798	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 9, but of course the Left Party supports its other reservations as well. Sweden is unique when it comes to the issue of adult education, and this is something we should be proud of. The struggle waged by the working class to give all the people of our society the right to lifelong learning is seen in our folk high schools, in vocational training and in Komvux. This is something we should preserve. For a number of years, parts of adult education, such as komvux, were under dismantling. When the alliance government was in power, people's opportunities and the right to know were reduced throughout their lives – to lifelong learning. The number of adult education places around the country was reduced, while the tax on the richest in our society was reduced. One thing that came into the rest of the school system was the prize hunt – outsourcing our adult education. I come from a municipality where virtually all adult education is outsourced. Is the quality higher? Answer no. Is this information coming from me or from the Left Party? No. There is research that shows that the quality is not as high when profit-making actors run adult education or education in general within our school system and have as their sole purpose to make a profit. I have to say that it is very provocative to see the alliance parties – once again – wanting to take further steps to expose our adult education to further experiments to allow other profit-making actors to come in and do what they have done with the rest of the school system, that is, to take our resources without offering the quality that we are looking for. It also risks competing out the serious players – private as well as public – who do not have this profit incentive but are there to do what we have given them the task to do. I would also like to raise our reservation 9, which I supported. It's about the teacher assistant training. Today there is a broad consensus behind having teachers' assistants at our schools, but we also need to ensure that the quality of training for teachers' assistants is good enough. There are universities of applied sciences that offer teaching assistant training, but we do not yet know whether the quality is high enough. We also do not know whether those who are going to work in school as teachers' assistants will acquire the skills needed to work in a business with children and young people. In many cases we also know that the teaching assistants' only job is not to do what the teachers do not have time to do, but actually to do what in many cases are the teachers' assignments based on the curriculum: to work with children who need extra support in our school. It is even more important to make sure that teaching assistant training works and that you get the skills you need. As this is a debate in which we debate motions from the general period of exercise and not a general debate on reports, I do not intend to hold much longer. However, I would like to raise again the issue of profit hunting in welfare, not least in adult education. We have seen what this has done with our school system – let us not do the same with our adult education! Let us not hand over public responsibility for lifelong learning to private actors who are not there to help us with this mission. Let's make sure to keep a high quality. We can do this by stopping the pursuit of profit in welfare and adult education.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-809	Mr President, I would like to I am now in my second speech in the Chamber on my third day in Parliament, so I feel really well-trained at this point! I would like to begin by agreeing with all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, but I will be content in this speech to talk about reservation 16, about, among other things, SFI education, in paragraph 10. I will also say a few words about reservation 21, which deals with the SFI for asylum seekers. Language is a key to good integration in a new society, but it is also necessary to gain knowledge and knowledge of how society is built and about cultural and social codes. Language skills also provide significantly better access to the labour market. SFI education needs to be improved – many agree. Our proposal for individual performance plans and greater tiering therefore represent important improvements for those concerned. I would like to stress that it is not a question of negative class division but of giving everyone the opportunity to learn based on their own ability. Who among us has not heard examples that, for example, academics are mixed with illiterate people in a group? It creates frustration for all parties. No one should be held back, and no one should be left behind. Everyone should of course have the opportunity to develop to their full potential, and of course language is a key. The proposal to link the remuneration to SFI providers to pupils' results also provides an incentive to maintain good quality teaching. It is important, Mr President, for self-esteem to get to work as soon as possible and become self-sufficient and not dependant on subsidies. The best way to learn Swedish is to use it, and then in a natural environment. This is why we want to improve opportunities to learn Swedish at work and combine SFI and Vux. So a few words about my predecessor Jimmy Loord's reservation 21. Asylum seekers have to wait a long time for their asylum application to be processed. It can mean a long time of uncertainty and passivity. I agree with Jimmy Loord's motion that there should be teaching in Swedish and community orientation already on asylum homes from day one. A shortened period of establishment is good both for the individual and for society as a whole. I therefore support all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats and call for the approval of Nos 16 and 21.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-816	Mr President, I would like to Adult education has always been a very important education for us Social Democrats. Initially, it was mainly about giving adults the chance to study upper secondary school skills and to enable further studies. Some often had an old education, but it was also often economic conditions that made young students unable to continue their studies. Therefore, it was very important to make sure to start an education even for adults. This year it is actually 50 years since we started komvux as a school form, mainly aimed at these adults who for various reasons had the need to take a high school degree, change profession or realize a dream and educate themselves to continue studying at college. But Komvux today is about so much more. Today, adult education is a crucial instrument both for labour market policy, for integration policy and, not least, for ensuring the supply of skills both in the public sector and in the private sector. It is becoming increasingly clear that upper secondary school is no longer sufficient to give everyone who needs it a basis for further studies, both in university of applied sciences and in higher education. It is becoming increasingly clear that municipal adult education is a basis for national and regional skills supply to the world of work and a basis for further studies. Adult education is a crucial piece of the puzzle to enable lifelong learning where every person can grow throughout their lives as an active citizen and a skilled professional. It provides opportunities to both switch and grow that not only creates freedom and security for the individual but also improves matching and strengthens our country's competitiveness. Adult education should be a stepping stone to work and self-support, a stepping stone to further education or the next step in the skills ladder, but also a stepping stone to establishing yourself in Swedish society. Mr President, I would like to Sfi education is crucial for new Swedes' ability to establish themselves in society. Regardless of previous educational backgrounds, language skills are crucial. For far too many years we have had a system where you do not participate in Swedish education or community introductions until the applicant has been informed of a residence permit. I am well aware that education associations and others in recent years have done a heroic job in terms of Swedish education and social introduction. In the January agreement, however, it is now stated that we will have social introduction and teaching in Swedish from day one in our country, and I very much welcome that. It is an important clarification and an absolutely necessary initiative that will improve the conditions for our new Swedes to become a part of our labour market and Swedish society more quickly. But SFI education also needs to continue to be modernised and improved. In particular, the SFI must also be based on individual development plans in order to clarify the opportunities and conditions for the individual to succeed in establishing himself or herself in the labour market, regardless of whether he or she has a Swedish or foreign background. The quality of teaching must be improved, and this must be ensured regardless of whether the teaching is provided by municipal or private actors. Here are several successful examples to follow where municipalities and independent trainers together with local companies have managed to combine SFI, internship and professional work to create fast ways to work. In some cases, all participants have moved on to work or continued vocational training. Here we need in particular to develop support for people with short education and match these trainings with the shortage professions that we have in Swedish society today. Mr President, I would like to My conclusion is that it must be much easier and smoother to find the golden combination of Swedish education, professional Swedish of different types, internships and apprenticeships. My belief is that with the tasks now decided and the sharpened level of ambition in terms of both komvux in general and SFI education in particular, there are good conditions for success. Then we can both shorten the start-up period for new Swedes, create new jobs, meet skills shortages and enable more people to make an educational leap and – in fact – a life journey. Mr President, I would like to The University of Applied Sciences is another extremely important piece of the puzzle in lifelong learning. By developing it in close cooperation with industry and the labour market and against the identified shortage professions, we see that a very high percentage of these students progress directly to a job after completing education. Here I am both happy and grateful that the government has decided to continue developing the University of Applied Sciences. After the recent Social Democratic Party Congress, which decided to continue to expand the university of applied sciences, I also feel a great pride and hope for the future. Today, just over 50% of education is spent in the three largest cities. Here I believe that we must work actively to ensure that these new initiatives really benefit the whole country. The university of applied sciences will be expanded, it will be developed and it will reach the whole country. Mr President, I would like to Finally, let me say that in a modern society that wants to be at the forefront of education and technology, it is absolutely crucial that we manage to offer opportunities for everyone to take part in lifelong learning. Lifelong learning is a prerequisite for an innovative and competitive labour market in which we do not compete with low wages and poor working conditions, but with knowledge. In the time in which we now live, knowledge is more than ever a security. Knowledge is also strength. I want to see a society where we equip each other for a long and developing working life. In that society, it is important to create a learning environment that both takes advantage of previous work experience and enables the build-up and further education throughout life. In that society, all of the aforementioned school forms are of crucial importance. I would also like to take this opportunity to call for the draft decision of the Committee on Education and Training to be approved.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-829	Mr President, I would like to As many of my colleagues have said before me, this debate on adult education is closely linked to the one we just had on upper secondary education. As you look at upper secondary school and its challenges and the possibility of being prepared for working life and adult life, you also partly look at adult education when you think about how to design it – or at least you follow the same principles. One of the principles and important priorities of the Green Party that I mentioned in the previous debate was that we want an education system without dead ends and where we safeguard the crooked education journey and the opportunity to do different things through life and learn, learn and learn new things. In order to achieve this, access to adult education is crucial. Adult education can provide qualifications that have not previously been acquired in the school system in order to be able to apply for academic education, it can provide the opportunity for new knowledge that is needed to take a new step in the professional life and it can provide completely new knowledge that one might not know from the beginning that it was requested. I'll get back to that. There are two parts in particular that are important to us in this regard and that the report deals with a great deal. One is the extension of the Knowledgelift, which is now also part of the January Agreement. It is a good thing that this is there, because if we are really to be able to protect the crooked education journey, there is simply a need for more training places and more opportunities to train. The second part is that we strengthen the quality of SFI. It is absolutely crucial for you to be able to take power over your life, whether it is the opportunity to be a citizen of a democracy or to have a profession. The prerequisite is of course that you get a good knowledge of Swedish, and that requires a sfi of the highest quality. The report describes the work under way and the work announced in the January agreement. One reflection that I announced I wanted to make, Mr President, is that in this debate it is easy for us to stick to the adult education that is crucial for employability, that is, the adult education that is closely linked to different sectors. That is very important, and just as Tomas Kronståhl described, the University of Applied Sciences is an extremely good part of Swedish adult education that gives those opportunities for a job. But there are also other parts of adult education and other education where you are not convinced at the beginning of your education exactly what to use your education for. I would like to spend a minute talking about education as such. Steve Jobs, the founder of Apple, once Stanford described how he slipped into a course on calligraphy during his college career. He chose that course because there was someone who also attended that course that he wanted to spend time with and not because he thought he would ever benefit from calligraphy as such. It is not a national secret that the Riksdag keeps us with Apple phones, although I personally think there are better alternatives. But I have to say when I use my Apple phone that Apple has done the same thing several times during the IT revolution, taking what was technically difficult and making it user-friendly. It has been the whole business idea since the founding of that company. That's what built that company big and revolutionized the use of IT. The clues to how it should be done, said Steve Jobs, he got in the class in calligraphy. Idea historian Sven-Erik-Liedman Liedman has put it this way: The paths of knowledge are often detours. We get different clues during the training trip, which then show us a completely different benefit from what we first thought. Therefore, the role of education and education in adult education – folk high schools, where you get broad knowledge whether you go on the targeted education or the general line and study circles – is absolutely crucial. I thought it needed to be presented in this debate as well. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to say something about the last position that the committee makes in the report. It is about adult education for students with intellectual disabilities. In this respect, the committee states clearly that the Komvux study has in turn concluded that there are far too few opportunities for this type of adult education for people with intellectual disabilities today. The Komvux inquiry presents some suggestions on how to correct this and how to build up this type of training. These proposals are now being prepared at the Government Office, and I hope that we will be able to get those kinds of proposals at Parliament's table, because that could make a big difference for many people in Sweden who today do not have the very basic opportunity to take power over their lives that everyone should have, including those with intellectual disabilities.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-839	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 6. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for the time to come, I am only in favour of reservation No 6. The report we are discussing today is about adult education, which is an extremely important part of creating the conditions for people to be able to retrain and further educate themselves later in life. The committee discussed earlier upper secondary education, and mentioned at the time, one student in four either skips upper secondary school or leaves upper secondary school with incomplete grades. The existence of high-quality adult education is crucial for creating additional conditions for these people to have new and better chances later in life. The Swedish education system is characterised by freedom of choice and the possibility to choose education providers – except when it comes to municipal adult education. It is one of the few systems that it is de facto up to municipalities to decide whether there should be freedom of choice in or not. The Center Party wants to see an adult education grant so that freedom of choice is made possible for people who want to study adult education. It would be a good step to create more freedom of choice and strengthen the conditions for students and students. Adult education also plays an important role in meeting the needs of the labour market. Many recruitments among companies are failing today. In the best of worlds we manage to get people to study professional programs in high school, but when this does not happen, it is incredibly important that there are paths to these professions through adult education. We need to strengthen professional vixen in order to meet the demand that exists and also to strengthen quality. One issue that this report also touches on is that of Swedish for immigrants, SFI. It is gratifying that several parts of what the Center Party has been running for a long time linked to SFI are included in the January agreement that is written between the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Center Party and the Liberals. The focus is on increasing the quality, getting more hours for the students who need it and also investigating the conditions for getting a sfi-money in place. Mr President, I would like to The report also highlights the incredibly important form of polytechnic education, which has been a success story in Sweden for some time. Most students who end up in such an education get jobs. Nine out of ten come in a qualified post-graduate job. At the same time, there are many training courses which today have high quality but which do not manage to get places because the competition is so fierce. It is good that the extension of the university of applied sciences is now continuing thanks to the January agreement. This is an important step forward. However, we in the Center Party would also like to create the conditions for the privately funded places of study that exist through the University of Applied Sciences today to open places that way so that more courses can be started and conducted in addition to the publicly funded courses that exist within the University of Applied Sciences. We will probably have to come back to the discussion on how to strengthen adult education. It is an incredibly crucial issue that it is a good quality of education and that we increase freedom of choice in adult education so that more people can go from exclusion to work. This creates better conditions for more people in our society.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-847	Mr President, I would like to Today, as chairman of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, I have received the great honour of speaking for the whole committee in our unanimous opinion on the European Commission's strategy for the work on endocrine disrupting substances. Examples of endocrine disruptors are different varieties of phthalates, brominated flame retardants or metals such as lead and mercury. These are substances that are found in products that we use in our everyday lives. It has been shown that they can be linked to breast cancer, prostate cancer, obesity and thyroid problems. It is therefore extremely important to ensure that the EU acts effectively to ensure a high level of protection for the European population and the environment while maintaining the internal market. Hormonal disruptors are an issue that has been involving governments of different colours for a long time. They have also involved the Committee on Environment and Agriculture in many ways. That is why the committee has chosen to examine the European Commission's communication Towards a comprehensive EU framework for endocrine disruptors in order to assess whether the Commission's proposed strategy for the work on endocrine disruptors is sufficient or if something is missing. In the committee's review, we highlight four areas which we consider to be particularly important. The first concerns knowledge about endocrine disrupting substances and effects on health and the environment. The committee agrees with the Commission's assessment that further research is needed into the presence and effects of endocrine disruptors. At the same time, we think it is important that the review of the relevant legislation described by the Commission in its Communication should have a risk-based approach so that priority is given to the areas and legislation most relevant in terms of exposure to endocrine disruptors. We therefore welcome the Commission's proposal that particularly sensitive groups such as children and teenagers should be the focus of further action and research efforts. The second area to which the committee refers is the precautionary principle. We agree with the Commission's assessment that the EU Strategy for endocrine disruptors should be based on the precautionary principle and aim to minimise exposure to endocrine disruptors. We see that experience from the use of different perfluorinated substances, called PFAS, clearly illustrates the need for preventive precautions. There are a number of examples of how perfluorinated substances have previously been considered to be completely harmless to humans and the environment, which has led to their widespread spread. New knowledge has subsequently shown that these substances can actually have endocrine disrupting properties. The wide spread and low degradability of the substances have led to perfluorinated substances remaining in the environment for a long time to come. In the committee's view, it is important, against this background, to minimise the spread of potentially endocrine disruptors for precautionary reasons. Mr President, I would like to Area number three is about the circular economy. Our society needs to close the loops and work to ensure that what is now seen as waste is seen instead as resources that can be reused or recycled. But in this context it is also important to look at what substances the products to be recycled actually contain. For example, if a plastic product contains banned phthalates, it is not entirely appropriate to recycle it into a new plastic toy for children. The committee therefore believes that when the European Commission reviews the existing legislation linked to endocrine disruptors, it must also look at recycling and the circular economy. The revised EU Strategy on endocrine disruptors must be coordinated with other efforts to achieve a circular economy. The fourth and final area is supervision and market surveillance. We are living in an increasingly globalised world with increased trade between Member States but not least with countries outside the EU that have a different regulatory framework for endocrine disruptors than the EU has. There is therefore a need to step up efforts on relevant surveillance and market surveillance in the Member States in order to limit the spread of endocrine disruptors from imported products. Mr President, I would like to On the whole, the committee welcomes the fact that the Commission has presented this communication. We believe that the Commission, with its broad approach, covers the most important issues in this area. The committee therefore proposes that the Parliament add the statement to the document.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-858	Mr President, I would like to Now I'm going into another area. It is about nature conservation and biodiversity. For us in the Center Party, there are some principles that guide the work on nature conservation and biodiversity. The first is the importance of local participation and the legitimacy of the measures taken by those concerned. I believe that a large part of the conflicts that we see today linked to nature conservation around our country are based on frustration and a sense of powerlessness that one cannot influence one's situation. That people feel listened to and involved is therefore key to a functioning nature conservation. Another important principle of the Center Party is that restrictions and limitations resulting from decisions of politicians or authorities should be replaced. As a user, you must be able to feel confident in knowing that if you are no longer allowed to use your forest as you wish or if your animals are subjected to predatory attacks, you should also receive compensation for this. Unfortunately, we see that this is not always the case. The third and final principle is that active landowners and users are the basis of effective management. Today, many forest owners walk around with a feeling of discomfort. What if their management of the forest, which has created values in the form of, for example, bomb - wall claws or lichens, means that they suddenly lose the right to use their forest? When users and landowners are afraid of creating biodiversity, we are very wrong out there. These three principles – local participation, the right to compensation in case of restrictions and the importance of active management – apply regardless of whether it is a matter of land, forest or water. In this speech, I will give some examples of how policies need to be changed in these different areas. We debated the forests quite thoroughly in this House not very long ago. I am therefore not going to dwell very much on the forest in this debate. But we can clearly note that in terms of both local participation and the importance of active use and compensation in the event of intrusion, there is a need for changes in existing policies linked to nature conservation. It is of the utmost importance that the work now under way under the January Agreement also leads to a policy of encouraging forest owners' conservation measures, focusing on the quantity of protection to its quality. Mr President, I would like to Instead, I would like to dwell for a moment on another resource: water. In the past, we have debated fisheries issues in this House and the importance of a well-balanced and functioning quota allocation for a living stock. At the same time, however, we see that more tools are needed to obtain a prosperous fish stock, namely a more active management of seals and cormorants. They eat together as much fish as the coastal fish take up. Seats and cormorants also do great damage to equipment and nets and reduce opportunities to fish with alternative, more gentle methods. Today, seal protection hunting is permitted. However, I am pleased that the committee is today recommending to Parliament that an announcement be made to the government to introduce seal hunting. This is an issue that the Environmental Protection Agency has investigated. It recommends the introduction of seal licensing in order to improve the management of fish resources. I and the committee share this view. At the same time, it is of course very regrettable that since 2015, as a result of a WTO case, it is prohibited to trade seal products. It is a good thing that Parliament has for several years clearly expressed its support for changing this legislation when such an opening is given. Unfortunately, however, the probability of this is rather small. The Center Party sees that the cormorant is the next issue on which we must continue to work. This issue is more complicated to change than with the seal because the cormorants are linked to the EU Birds Directive as a species not covered by general hunting. However, in order to bring about a change as quickly as possible, the Center Party wants to facilitate, in a first step, the search for protection so that areas with large colonies can be limited to their extent. When it comes to local participation in nature conservation, one example from the water deserves to be highlighted, namely the co-government of Kosterhavet National Park. Here scientists, fishermen, authorities and other stakeholders have sat down and decided on common rules and conditions. Instead of total ban on bottom trawling in the area, the areas in the management plan have been limited and a major effort has also been made to develop new, more gentle trawling gears. In this way, nature conservation has been balanced with the fisheries and tourism that are so important for the area. This is a model that we in the Center Party want to see in more protected areas, both in the sea and on land. Another water area where there is a strong need for increased focus on legitimacy and participation is beach protection. The Center Party wants to see a decentralised and more locally grown beach shelter where you have greater local power to decide which beach areas are to be preserved and which ones are to be built. The regulatory burden needs to be reduced and the really important areas need to be protected. We in the Center Party are pleased that this is part of the January agreement and that work on an investigation to present a fundamentally reformed beach protection will be launched during the year. As regards the principle of compensation in the event of infringement, there are also current water issues that need to be clarified. Protecting and protecting our drinking water is absolutely essential, and it will become increasingly important in the future. In several municipalities, there is also active work to establish water protection areas, which at the same time affects farmers who are active in these areas. In some municipalities there are clear compensation models, and in others this is lacking, which has given rise to both conflicts and concerns among farmers. We in the Center Party believe that the guidelines on compensation for the establishment of water protection areas need to be reviewed at national level, as the drinking water investigation has also pointed out. Mr President, I would like to Last but not least, I would like to highlight the natural resource of arable land and pasture. The active use of biodiversity is essential here. Together with the National Board of Agriculture, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the county administrative boards, the Swedish Board of Agriculture has recently presented a report on how biodiversity in the agricultural landscape can be strengthened. The report notes that one third of Sweden's red-listed species depend on the farming landscape for survival. It is mainly about herbaceous grasslands that are threatened by overgrowth. It is believed that profitable farmers and an increased number of grazing animals are the path we need to take if we are to meet our biodiversity goals in the agricultural landscape. I would therefore very much like to see the Swedish debate on the con vention be sensible and not only be about the cone as a climate villain, but also about the cone as the necessity for biodiversity it actually is. Another area where a more moderate debate is needed is genetic engineering in plant breeding. At the same time as Swedish agriculture represents part of the solution to increased biodiversity in the agricultural landscape, we can say that intensive agriculture sometimes also adversely affects biodiversity in plain landscapes. Reduced use of inputs such as fertiliser and plant protection is often mentioned as measures, and this is also something that Swedish farmers work actively with. At the same time, there are now breeding techniques that can shorten development time and also provide variety characteristics such as drought resistance or reduced need for nitrogen or plant protection products. Unfortunately, both the EU and Sweden have legislation based on breeding techniques instead of varietal property, which means that Sweden and the EU are lagging behind. It is therefore very welcome that the committee proposes that the Riksdag should call on the Government to promote technology-neutral plant breeding legislation. Mr President, I would like to Not only is the cow needed in the farming landscape – sheep and goats also play an important role in biodiversity. That is why I read with sadness about sheep farmers who choose to stop their activities after predator attacks. A functioning predator management goes hand in hand with good conservation, and here we see several shortcomings. Some are about conditions when hunting for protection. Both the level of treatment and the level of remuneration differ between different county boards, making it difficult for the individual entrepreneur to predict. We can also note that even if the state compensates for a certain part of the damage, it can be very costly for the agricultural entrepreneur not only emotionally but also in terms of money. It is therefore reasonable to look at whether the government should take greater responsibility for the costs of preventive work, protection hunting and compensation in the event of predatory attacks. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs to have a nature conservation that encourages people to care for and manage. It will help landowners and users to preserve valuable nature and create new biodiversity. In order to achieve this, policies are needed which strengthen participation and legitimacy, guarantee the right to compensation in the event of restrictions and are based on active management. Unfortunately, we still have a bit to go. Of course, I agree with all the reservations of the Center Party, but for the winning time I only agree to reservation 35.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-885	Madam President, I would like There is no horror film that can be scarier than if there were to be a film about the sixth mass extermination. The horror film directors couldn't have found a more horrendous story to make a movie out of. The most terrible thing of all is that this isn't film, it's happening right here and now. It's a documentary that goes on outside the Parliament window. One by one, animal and plant species disappear from the surface of the earth. Thousands, yes hundreds of thousands, indeed, according to the latest research even billions, species are already extinct and forever missing. Right now, even more are under threat. Scientists call this a biological extinction and say that it is a frightening attack on the very foundation of our human civilization. Madam President, I would like The sixth mass extinction of species is taking place at record speed. As many as three quarters of all species on earth are at risk of disappearing. This time man is the cause of mass death. It's a mass death threatening our own existence. This is the first time a mass extinction has been caused by an individual species – man in this case – and not by natural processes. The former extinction hit dinosaurs when a meteorite struck some 65 million years ago. Animal and plant life is now dying because of us, partly because of toxic pollution and because of climate change. But the absolute primary cause is man's ever-increasing and massive exploitation of our planet. Man and our domestic animals have taken over the planet. Together, we make up 95% of the world's biomass for vertebrates. Wild animals, which used to be by far the largest part, such as moose, lions, penguins and other wild animals, account for only 5% today. They are rapidly decreasing in number. Madam President, I would like We stand at a crossroads in the history of the planet and mankind. Our way of life is destroying ecosystems and eradicating species at a raging rate. Mankind has not experienced this before, and no one knows exactly how ecosystems will be affected. All we know is that ecosystems will be affected. We also know that humans depend entirely on healthy ecosystems and that they work so that we can survive. All this sounds terrible, and it's also terrible. It's extremely serious. It happens in Sweden, and it happens around the world. But there is still time to reverse the trend. There is still time to do something, even though time is becoming scarce. The planet needs our help, and humanity needs its own help. Together we can reverse this. However, if we are to turn around, we must begin to protect biodiversity with a much greater seriousness than we have done so far. Here in Sweden there are about 4,000 red-listed species, i.e. endangered species. The main threats to the existence of red-listed species are logging and regrowing of environmental areas. The intensive forest management, with the greenery as the dominant method and the overgrowth of open landscapes, of meadows and pastures, makes many species increasingly difficult to survive and survive. But when our natural forests are made to live, it's made of life. There are often different kinds of trees standing side by side with dead trees that may remain. It is trees that thus become a prerequisite for fungi, lichens, mosses and insects – and even some birds that need them to survive. But when the forest is felled and replaced by tree groves where in principle only one kind of tree grows, many plant and animal species do not make it. Madam President, I would like Agricultural landscapes are also important for biodiversity. Few places have as rich a plant and animal life as a varied agricultural landscape. Pickling animals keep the landscape open, and different crops can be grown alternately in the fields. Åkerholms, stone walls and wetlands become settlements for a variety of insects and animals. But even here in Sweden, industrial agriculture takes over more and more of what has previously been a varied and traditional agriculture. When industrial agriculture takes over, fields are impoverished, and biodiversity decreases with the use of chemical pesticides, fertilizers and only one type of crop. Madam President, I would like In order to stop this mass extinction, we must protect a much larger part of Sweden's nature and the world's nature. We must turn to a sustainable society, a sustainable industry, sustainable agriculture and forestry and sustainable fisheries. Here in Sweden, we must continue to increase the protection of land and seas. We have done outstanding work on this in the last parliamentary term, and that work must also continue. More forest needs to be protected, but it needs to be done in close cooperation with forest owners. No forest owner should have to float in uncertainty or not be compensated for the forest to be protected. Our seas must be much more protected. Today, large parts of our fish stocks are overfished, and several stocks in and around Sweden have already disappeared completely or are at risk of total collapse. It is totally unreasonable that we, as people, and we as politicians, in many ways actually stand by and watch when this happens. We need to get tough on this and make sure that overfishing is stopped. A reasonable approach to the sea is to discuss and push forward in the future to increase the number of protected areas. For example, by 2030, 30% of marine areas will be protected, and 30% of protected areas will actually be completely protected for fisheries. Today, we believe that protected areas are protected for fishing. They rarely are. We also need areas that are protected for fishing. The fish and the seas must be saved, and that must happen soon. Otherwise, there will be neither fish left nor, for that matter, any fishing. We need to switch to sustainable fishing, and it should not only be done by the fishermen themselves. I don't mean the fish that swims, but the fish that fish. From that side, the state needs to strongly, in a completely different way than hitherto, go in and support the fishing industry for a transition to sustainability. It is not something that the industry should have to do itself, but it should receive support. At the same time, we must also reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Climate change and temperature increases in themselves are causing the destruction of many habitats. Climate and biodiversity are closely linked. The Climate Policy Council shows that we need to change up considerably in the policy of saving the climate. Let's start living up to what they want together. We must also have a strong policy to keep the unexploited rivers and rivers flowing freely. In all the places where power plants currently exist, we need to ensure that policies and power plants together continue to create the conditions for a substantial expansion of fish migration routes and fish stairs. Madam President, I would like Although it is still possible to do something about mass death, let us be honest. Unfortunately, the outlook does not look so good unless we do something very drastic on the part of humanity. That is why we must now pull the handbrake, turn society and politics into sustainability and take the responsibility that the voters have given us. The climate, humanity and our planet must be saved. There's no other option. Nothing else should go ahead. I support the proposal in the report.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-907	Madam President, I would like The Moderates support all their reservations in the report, but for time-winning, I only call for reservation 6. Approximately 15 years ago, the Parliament adopted 16 environmental quality objectives. Every year, the situation for them is monitored, and at times the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency conducts an in-depth analysis of the goals. The last one was reported in January. Unfortunately, the development of several of the targets does not look very good. Nevertheless, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency believes that the goals that should be prioritised now are the climate and depletion of biodiversity. The report also points out that Sweden's environmental challenges are largely cross-border and that it is therefore important that we work internationally on these issues. Not surprisingly, perhaps, but the conclusions are very well aligned with the Moderates' approach and the priorities we have set. We believe that climate action should be cost-effective and should be done where it provides the most emission reduction for the money. In the same way, work on biodiversity must be managed internationally, preferably with Sweden as a driver. This should not be understood to mean that we do not intend to do our homework, but we believe that international cooperation is very important in these matters. In addition, the environment and climate are one of our three policy priorities for the elections on 26 May. With reference to what I have just said, we must also take on board any criticism from the European Union. This concerns, among other things, the issue of invasive species, which the government was recently criticised for neglecting. We have apparently failed to report which invasive species have been established in our country and, above all, have failed to fight them. This can have serious consequences, for invasive species lack natural enemies in us. Madam President, I would like With regard to biodiversity, I would also like to mention the conflict of objectives that has arisen between the environment and property rights. This has become particularly clear in the case of forests. There, the Species Protection Regulation has been implemented without regard to productive forestry, which has resulted in landowners being effectively subject to a logging ban – without the state being prepared to compensate them. I am sure you have heard of legal proceedings in which bomb-wall claws and flag-shocks have stopped logging, but there are other strange examples where constitutionally protected private property rights have been compromised. This is neither sustainable nor legally secure, and it does not inspire confidence in the state's actions. A majority in the Riksdag has previously asked the Government to review both the Species Protection Regulation and the Key Biotop Inventory. We believe that it must be ensured that they are applicable, effective and legally secure. But so far the government has not cared about this. Only a few months ago, we even suffered severe criticism from the government's representatives when we made sure to pause the key biotop inventory. Today, after the January agreement, the tone is different, and we welcome that. We also welcome the implementation of our proposal to review and strengthen property rights. Another problem affecting biodiversity is what is happening in the seas, where today we can see a large increase in the number of seals and cormorants. These species are currently disrupting the balance of ecosystems, which has had a significant impact on fish stocks and thus on professional fishing. According to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, only the seal's damage amounted to just over SEK 33 million per year for professional fishing – and that figure dates back five years. Technical innovations to protect fishing gear have come into place, but unfortunately they have been insufficient. Today, protection hunting can be allowed, but the rules for it are perceived as complicated and cumbersome, so the quotas are rarely filled. At the same time, we know that seal populations have reached what is called a favourable conservation status and could therefore be managed in a more systematic way. The same applies to the mid-range. One example from my home country is Lake Roxen, where the poacher is currently enjoying much too well and has become a severe pest. At the lake, 6 000 cormorants have been counted for a period of 100 days. The cormorants have been hard on the fish stocks, and it is no wonder – because they eat half a kilo of fish a day. When the fishery conservation area then sets out gösyngel to try to maintain the status of fish stocks, the cormorants are there and eating. Protection hunting is granted, but the conservation area says that it is far too complicated rules that apply for protection hunting. The report also addresses the issues of bear, wolf, wolverine and lo. The presence of these animals can be seen as worrying to many, something that is particularly evident in the areas where predators grow. In view of perceived fear and the attacks on pets and domestic animals, it is therefore particularly important that acceptance among both locals and local keepers really exists and is established. The management of these predators should therefore be managed locally as far as possible, but also by doing more to reduce the risk of attack. As you can see, this report contains a great many issues. Now I'm going into the beach shelter. It has also been a recurring issue in recent years. Changes have been made here to increase flexibility in permit management, but it is still difficult for individual landowners and municipalities to build in attractive waterfront areas. We Moderates believe that the protection of the beach must be fundamentally reformed once more. We envisage that, unlike today, beach protection should apply to land and nature, where it is considered to be the most important and, at the same time, the general land restrictions are eased. We believe that our reverse perspective can be a solution for rural municipalities to actually build more water close to them and thus attract new residents. Given the challenges the world faces when it comes to feeding more and more people, replacing fossil energy and increasing plant resistance to drought or water-saturated soil, we need to become more skilled in fast plant breeding. Genetic engineering offers these opportunities, but that different methods of plant breeding are assessed differently in the law – even if they lead to the same result – means that we lose time. However, on the basis of the precautionary principle, genetic engineering must now be considered mature for commercial use. A majority in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture has therefore stated that legislation on genetic engineering should be modernised and made technology neutral. Madam President, I would like I began my speech by talking about the Environmental Protection Agency's evaluation of environmental objectives and the call to prioritise climate and biodiversity. Then I gave examples of target conflicts that may arise in the business and in society. These target conflicts are something that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has observed and realized. Various measures are therefore being proposed to make our work more successful. These include socio-economic impact assessments and analyses of incentives and instruments for sustainable forestry in the long term. The Moderates consider this to be useful and look forward to proposals in these areas.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-927	Madam President, I would like We are debating nature conservation and biodiversity here tonight. We in the Swedish Democrats are of course behind all our reservations, but for the winning time I only ask for reservation 5 on transition zones between forest and agricultural land and reservation 14 on general hunting for cormorants. Nature conservation and biodiversity issues concern many areas. In my speech, I will focus mainly on issues relating to the Species Protection Regulation and the Species Data Bank and the Red List, which are linked to it. The Swedish Democrats are more than happy to join those who want to promote biodiversity within Sweden's borders. Before we begin to orient ourselves in this terrain, it may be good to get a proper map of what it really looks like. The Swedish Red List's latest edition from 2015 lists 1 193 forest species that threatened. This is often misunderstood, not infrequently consciously, as they would be threatened by forestry. What is primarily meant is that species are very rare and sometimes they are also disadvantaged by man's use of nature. The Red List is certainly a good instrument for keeping order in an organized way on rare species, but it does not automatically give a true picture of the risk of extinction. Of course, each case must be assessed individually and carefully. Around 1970, today's large-scale forestry began to have a general impact in Sweden. In the 1970s, large machines were widely used in forestry, and for various reasons they were used to produce very large shelves in a short period of time, which was also particularly actively criticised in the media once upon a time. If large-scale forestry leads to extinction, this would have been the most visible during and shortly after this period. As a result, the annual final felling area has been reduced, and the individual racks have become much smaller than they once were. In addition, so-called everyday considerations have increased, which includes leaving individual trees, groups of trees and dry trees. In addition, areas of formal and voluntary forest protection have increased significantly. Artdatabanken at SLU, which is responsible for the red list, still classes 1,193 forest species that threatened. There are good reasons to compare this number with how many forest species actually died out in Sweden after 1970, when forestry can be said to have gone over in a more intensive phase in large parts of the country. That's eight species. None of these species have died out globally. What, then, are these eight species? It is black stork, Dacne rufifrons, which is a beetle, mid-speech, splendor moss, gilded metal fly, try butterfly, heathbålsmossa and trapezoidal earthfly. None of these eight species are globally extinct. Most of them are in some or some of our neighbouring countries. Most of the eight species were previously known only in a very small number in Sweden. Of the eight species, four lived in Skåne and six mainly in the southernmost and southeastmost parts of the country. This strongly indicates that the species over time ambulated across Sweden's southern and south-eastern borders, which is also described in several of the Red List's species descriptions. Of the eight species, only three, the disappearance of which can to some extent be linked to forestry, where the felling of boron trees and the replacement of deciduous forests and dead wood with coniferous wood appear to have played a role. Today, extensive efforts are being made in forestry to improve these conditions. There is no increase in the number of forest species that disappear in Sweden. Since 1970, the number has fallen as soon as possible. My intention is certainly not to reduce biodiversity to a non-issue. It is of course very important; we all know that here. On the contrary, we await a constructive debate on this issue, and also effective action. However, we in the Swedish Democrats do not believe that the solution lies in circumcating the possibilities for agriculture and forestry in Sweden. On the contrary, we find many species in the huts, in stock limits and in the borderland between agriculture and forestry. An important measure is thus to make it easier for Swedish farmers to keep their activities going throughout the country. If no one buys Swedish beef, for example, pastures and pastures will grow again, and this does not benefit biodiversity. So we have a lesson to do: to simply fight harder for Swedish forestry and agriculture. In passing, I can mention the proposal for a reduced tax on diesel and grazing compensation for grazing cows, which we in the Swedish Democrats have put forward here several years after each other. Madam President, I would like Fish is a resource that should of course be utilized in harmony with what the stocks can withstand in the long term. The forest must be managed and the game tribes managed. In the run-up to the European elections on 26 May, it cannot be overemphasised that hunting and game management must remain a national concern, which we will of course also pursue in the European Parliament. This is not so strange really. The knowledge of animals and nature is not primarily with Brussels officials. There is the view that a solution, a directive, can be applied throughout the Union. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that this is quite wrong. The knowledge of animals and nature in my region Värmland is of course in Värmland. And the best knowledge of animals and nature in Skåne is of course found in Skåne. So we want to move the right of decision closer to the areas affected – preferably to the areas affected – and not in the opposite direction. I would remind you that Sweden had a well-functioning game management system even before EU entry. So it does not mean that all is peace and joy. Madam President, I would like Today we have a stock of seals that has grown out of control, which is very damaging to fishing in the Baltic Sea. It may be appropriate to recall here the Environment and Agriculture Committee's announcement to introduce seal hunting. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that the issue of biodiversity should be kept alive and also prioritised by, for example, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and local institutions. We also believe that forestry, as has been mentioned in this speech, should be carried out with regard to biodiversity. However, this does not mean that forestry can be circumscribed on any basis. As I have hopefully made clear, the ban on the felling of coniferous forests is an extremely ineffective and in many cases ineffective way of protecting endangered species. A much better way is probably to care for deciduous forests in southern Sweden, which also happens, and that is good. The work on biodiversity must also be carried out in parallel with the pursuit of a rural area in which man is also present and maintains knowledge of nature. I would like to say that these issues go hand in hand.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-947	Madam President, I would like The state of biodiversity in Sweden and the rest of the world is, to say the least, very critical. According to a German research report that came a few years ago, which had followed the development of insects in a large number of nature reserves, 75 percent of the insects had disappeared from the areas. An ecological disaster, the German scientists summarized their findings. And it was noted that developments have been similar in much of the world's countries. What does it look like for biodiversity in Sweden? Just like Betty Malmberg from the Moderates, one can look at the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's so-called in-depth assessment of environmental objectives. We have an environmental objective called a rich animal and plant life and we note that this environmental objective will not be achieved. 14 out of the 16 environmental objectives that exist will not be achieved. Half of the Swedish species that are followed in the EU Habitats Directive are very vulnerable. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency notes that today we have forestry that unilaterally prioritises production at the expense of biodiversity. It is noted that we have a monoculture farm. Most of the animals do not go outdoors and graze, bows and pecks in the ground and contribute to biodiversity, but they are trapped in stables. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency also notes that physical exploitation – construction of roads, industries, urban centres, etc. – rarely takes sufficient account of biodiversity. On top of all this, there is the ongoing climate change, which risks exacerbating and accelerating biodiversity depletion. A biological depletion that is rarely seen, and which also the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency provides great space, is the depletion of biodiversity in our marine areas. Fishing is a very important cause of impoverishment, but also discharges at sea and at sea. We must, of course, ensure that this is resolved, and I expect all parties to present concrete measures in this debate. We've heard some suggestions. But to Betty Malmberg I would like to say that, unlike the Moderates, we in the Left Party believe that we need to significantly increase funding for biodiversity and to combat climate change. Then it will not be able to vote through a budget together with the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats who halve the funding for biodiversity and climate investments. We also need to have a forestry policy that is fundamentally changed and which takes much more account of the environment and provides a different use of the forest. For example, we can apply and promote what is commonly called continuum forestry. This means that not all trees are cut down in the form of a bare house, but instead they take down the trees that are suitable and allow a large part of the forest to remain. We also need an agriculture that is much more conducive to biodiversity, where wetlands are preserved and where animals really are allowed to go out and benefit biodiversity in the form of grazing animals, pigs that are pouting in the ground, birds pecking on the ground, and so on. We also need to limit the number of environmental toxins present in agriculture. Yesterday it was very gratifying to hear the ruling of the Land and Environment Court that stops the use of neonicotinoids. It is noted that the protection of bees and biodiversity weighs more heavily in this context. We need spatial planning that takes greater account of the environment. It should be easier to stop the construction of external shopping centres and new motorways. Do we really need a new shopping mall, and is it not completed with motorways? Well, we in the Left Party think that here we can place much more emphasis on biodiversity. Of course, the protection of marine diversity must also be strengthened. It's an area that's very critical. What is happening under the water is something that unfortunately we do not notice very much. But just as the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency states in its in-depth review, the situation is very critical. I welcome the fact that, in the past, the government has contributed quite a lot of money in this area, so that more marine reserves could be created during the previous term of office. But it is also important that we strengthen the quality of marine reserves. It is not so much worth if, for example, we can carry out bottom trawling in a marine reserve, and that is happening today in about half of our marine reserves. Although we are now protecting about 13% of marine areas, we need to protect more. We in the Left want a plan to protect at least 20% of marine areas. We need to strengthen the quality of protection by, for example, stopping harmful fishing practices such as bottom trawling. The marine reserves should be more part of a larger coherent network of marine reserves so that they can strengthen each other together. In this connection, I would like to take this opportunity to support our reservation 37. I would also like to call for the approval of Amendment No 9, which deals with a very different matter. But now it's said. Magnus Manhammar, the Social Democrats, was into something very important when he talked about previous mass extinction of species. These are, in fact, processes that have taken place over hundreds of millions of years. We have seen the first, second, third, fourth and fifth mass extinction of species. Then it has been about the impact of meteorites, climate change and other relatively slow natural processes that have knocked out a large part of the then living species. But just as Manhammar said, the big difference now in the so-called sixth mass extinction of species is that man is the cause of species extinction. Of course, if we are the people who have put us in this problem, we can also solve it. That is why political leadership is needed on the issue of strengthening biodiversity. We simply need to protect our nature better. We can continue to farm land and forests, but we must do so in a much more sustainable way. Ultimately, nature, biodiversity, must set the limits on what we can do. And, of course, we must drastically reduce our greenhouse gas emissions that are exacerbating and increasing the mass extinction of species. We must do all this. Madam President, I would like We can do it if we want to. Let's do it.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-966	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Jens Holm! I think it was interesting to listen to. You also raised some issues where we have a consensus. One of them is about political leadership. Unless it is in place, we will not achieve the objectives that we must achieve. What makes me a little distressed, however, is the lack of faith in the future at Jens Holm. As the Environmental Protection Agency reviews its conclusions on environmental objectives, they come to the conclusion, as I said in my speech, that governance needs to be improved, and then we need to find instruments to achieve this. They are proposing, among other things, socio-economic studies, which I mentioned, but also analyses and incentives for a sustainable forestry policy. It would have been interesting to hear Jens Holm comment on that. It is good that Jens Holm says that quality is more important than quantity. The Swedish National Audit Office's report on forests recently showed that in today's forest programmes the areas eligible for various subsidies or payments are worse in terms of both species, content and area. I see that my speaking time is running, so I will come back to my comments on the budget. If we are to benefit the climate, we must actually use the forest because that is when we bind carbon dioxide. I would like a comment from Jens Holm on that.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-971	Madam President, I would like There were several important questions from Betty Malmberg. In terms of quality, the Left Party wants a little simplified both better quality and increased quantity. We want greater protected areas both on land and at sea, and we want protection to be better and more representative. These should, for example, be more coherent areas. I'm thinking about key biotope inventories. It is important that we have authorities that can go through and find out what is out in our forests, such as the endangered species that exist in different places. If you are to have a high-quality reserve and know which areas you need to protect best, we must make such inventories. Unfortunately, however, the Moderates have pushed for them to be stopped. There is a problem with the so-called voluntary provisions that are made. If I have understood the policy of the Moderates correctly, you think it is good to have voluntary provisions. That may be a good thing, but one big problem is that a voluntary provision can be exchanged for another protected area next year and for another year after and so on. There will therefore be no long-term and continuity of voluntary provisions. Why do the Moderates want to place so much emphasis on them? I'd love to discuss budgetary issues. My main question to the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats is how to do more with less. If you halve appropriations under Category 20 for biodiversity and local climate investment, do you seriously believe that we can achieve better biodiversity and reduce emissions more quickly?
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-975	Madam President, I would like Let me start with the budget, because it is important that it be properly reproduced. It is true that the budget is lower than the election budget presented by the government. M a it is 2 billion kronor above the budget the government presented for 2016, and it was the second highest budget that was presented under the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government. What we, like the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, are looking for is that there must be effectiveness in the measures. We have therefore spent SEK 1 billion more in climate aid than other parties have done, because as Jens Holm well knows, the climate gases we are concerned about at land borders do not stop. When the Institute of Economics reviewed the measures taken by the government, seven out of eight measures were deemed ineffective. It was believed that they had been done anyway and that they therefore landed wrong in the budget available. We have also spent 1 billion more on green industries, because it is in the green industries that we can help the climate by seizing carbon dioxide, which is important. That is why we are investing a lot in a climate budget. This also applies to the sea, where we mention, among other things, the treatment of drugs. We are not against inventories, but the structure of the key biotop inventory has brought with it a legal uncertainty where landowners feel that they cannot sell their products. We do not see this as sustainable, and that is why it needs to be assessed differently. We feel that the government has taken it upon itself.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-981	Madam President, I would like I honestly think that Betty Malmberg compares apples and pears when we talk about the budget. What is quite clear, however, is that it is almost half the appropriations in the area of biodiversity and local climate investment, that is to say, what is called Climate Change in Category 20. Just listen to the head of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency who is very concerned and does not know how to keep the same high profile as before in this area when you get so much less money from Betty Malmberg's party with the support of the Swedish Democrats. You don't have any climate aid, Betty Malmberg. What you are doing in your budget is adding an extra 1 billion to the purchase of cheap and unsafe emission credits in other countries. It is not climate aid, on the contrary. It is these countries that help us reduce our emissions because when we buy up these insecure credits we can credit it as if there had been emission reductions here in Sweden. This is being sawed by the entire global environmental movement. Many experts say that these are not additional reductions, and that is why I say that they are unsafe emission credits. Nevertheless, I welcome the grant from Betty Malmberg. The Moderates say that they want to give more priority to environmental issues and, in particular, to climate issues in the future. However, if the Moderates are to be credible in these matters, they must allocate more money and sometimes allow the environment to be superior to production, for example in today's forestry. The Moderates are not there yet, but who knows, after this debate something may have happened.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-985	Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but I would like to endorse reservation 23 on protection and licence hunting. Today's debate on nature conservation and biodiversity feels largely like a replay to several of the other previous debates we have had in plenary with our committee. The substances go into each other. I will therefore, to some extent, repeat what I have said myself in previous debates but, of course, also highlight some other things that are new here. It is clear that today's topic is concerned. What causes this subject to be debated extensively in political assemblies, on mailing pages, in debate articles, and at meetings in rural farms in the country? Let me quote Mats Nylinder, Professor Emeritus at SLU: I then love childhood nature and wonder if we are on the right track to preserve a species rich fauna and flora. I believe that we must give greater support to those who want to live and live in rural areas and those who want to farm land, forests and water, rather than as I see it many times populist efforts on individual species and key biotopes. ..................................................... If you want to slow down the change in nature, let those who live closest to nature in the countryside have more influence on their own existence. The use of water, soil and forest has created the diversity we have today. ..................................................... Here I think we have one of the answers. Many landowners of the country feel that they no longer have the influence to which they are entitled over their property. They no longer feel that they can control their existence as they have done before. Among other things, they feel that ownership and use rights are under threat. Madam President, I would like The EU directive on species and habitats needs to be updated. Reclassifying the threat status of different species as populations grow or shrink must be made more flexible. It is also appropriate to include in the Directive the rules applicable to the examination of decisions which may be affected by the Directive. The possibility of appropriate hunting is necessary in order to maintain local acceptance for the presence of predators and to make it possible to live and operate in rural areas, even where predatory pressures are high. Värmland has 40 per cent of Sweden's wolf tribe of 4 per cent of Sweden's surface area. It doesn't make sense. If it is an area in which we who live in rural areas have no influence over our own existence, it is predator management. The rules for the protection of predators that attack domestic animals need to be reviewed to make them reasonable on the basis of the reality of individual livestock farmers. Food strategy becomes empty words only if predators can be allowed to repeatedly kill many animals on a single farm. It is not reasonable for an entrepreneur to operate under such conditions. The Christian Democrats want a viable countryside with food production throughout the country. Domestic livestock farming should also be possible in areas with carnivores, but protection hunting rules must be adapted accordingly. The county administrative boards must be more alert when it comes to taking the initiative to hunt for protection. To this end, a review of regulations and regulatory letters should be carried out. In some regions, the wolf strain needs to be reduced by licence hunting. Decisions on the number to be shot in the case of licence hunting shall be aligned with the democratically decided targets of the predators' tribes. None of our Swedish predators are currently endangered. A continued targeted and selective hunt for wolf can be carried out without affecting the species' favourable conservation status. In the reindeer husbandry area, the granting of protection hunting must take place with particular regard to reindeer husbandry, since it is an important part of Sami culture as well as important for employment and housing in Sweden's northern hinterland and mountain world, where reindeer husbandry has long been their berry beam. Our magnificent mountain areas are a fantastic natural environment but also a cultural environment where people have been feeding for thousands of years. Nor does it make sense for protection hunters to stand without compensation. Today it depends on which county the hunt takes place if the hunter is to receive any compensation for the protection hunt and if so, how much compensation will be paid. The Christian Democrats propose that the rules be changed so that the protection hunter's compensation does not depend on which county the hunted animal is convicted. It is gratifying that we are receiving an announcement to the government about hunting for seals. The large stock of seals threatens fishing, partly through competition for catches, partly by destroying fishing gear and partly by increasing the spread of disease to fish, including cod, in dense seal populations. Hunting quotas must therefore be increased in order to reduce population size. Therefore, symbolic licences must not be granted, but licences must be granted that actually restrict the seal strain. The seal stocks are now so large that we are soon at risk of a new seal death. Too large and dense populations lead to diseases and epidemics. Madam President, I would like The hunt for cormorants must be intensified. In several parts of the Swedish archipelago, other seabirds have been crammed back while the mid-scarves have spread out. In addition, fishermen have seen their fish catches fall. The Christian Democrats believe that the number of mid-scarves needs to be decimated considerably by hunting. Unfortunately, the EU Birds Directive is putting obstacles to this. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that the Birds Directive be upgraded to include the cormorants on the list of huntable species. The rules for hunting geese and cranes should also be reviewed in order to extend the hunting of these species so that the strains can be kept at a balanced level and thus reduce the burden on our farmers, who are already carrying a heavy load. Madam President, I would like A simple way to get a more vibrant countryside is to reform beach protection. As it is today, the beach shelter places a wet blanket over large parts of our country that could instead develop into good living environments, which also attracts more people. Urbanisation could stop. It must be considerably easier to build homes near the beach in the sparsely populated parts of the country. The regulatory framework must be fundamentally reformed. Today's regulatory framework rests on the principle that everything that is not explicitly permitted is prohibited. Instead, sparsely populated areas should be allowed, except in areas which are designated by decision as particularly worthy of protection. Where beach protection rules are applied, beach protection should generally extend 50 metres from the beach, rather than the 300 metres currently in force, unless there are special reasons to have a longer limit. For the sake of legal certainty, it is important that the landowners concerned should be given an opportunity to make their views known before taking a decision on extended beach protection. Yet the county administrative boards today make general decisions where landowners are only allowed to know what is going on through a announcement in the newspaper. In order for beach protection to be perceived as legitimate, respect for the right of public access and for landowners to have a real opportunity to express themselves, namely to feel that they have influence over their own lives. Sweden has 42,000 km of coastline, and to a large extent it is completely untouched. At the same time, many municipalities around Sweden are wrestling with declining population figures. In order to increase the attractiveness of living outside the big cities, it needs to be easier to build in lakeside locations. The former alliance government changed the beach protection rules on a couple of occasions. The aim was to facilitate near-shore rural development, especially in areas with low exploitation pressures, while the protection of the shore in more exploited areas would be safeguarded. At the same time, the ambition was to make the regulatory framework clearer and to facilitate its application and make it more consistent. In order to protect the most heavily exploited areas, the possibility of extended beach protection was introduced up to 300 metres where specific reasons exist. However, it could be observed quite soon that the new beach protection rules did not produce the desired result. On the contrary, as a result of the legislative changes, it seems to have been a counter-reaction to the county administrative boards, which instead started to apply the rules more restrictively. This has had unreasonable consequences for many who live off their land. In the praktik it has become the case that 300 metres are applied unless there are specific reasons for applying the 100-metre limit. I will take an example, among many, from my own municipality of residence Årjäng, which shows how baroque beach protection is interpreted. In Lennartsfors, Thomas Wassberg's hometown, is a residential building next to a campsite 98 metres from the beach. In view of the location, the residential building was converted into a reception for the campsite. Some year later they wanted to return and remake the house into a residential building, but then they got rejected. The matter was brought to the highest court without the owner getting the right. Christian Democrats strive for a balance between the environment, outdoor life, construction and development in all parts of Sweden. Strand protection rules therefore need to be designed with the needs of both metropolitan areas and sparsely populated areas in mind. Today, rural municipalities are unduly hindered in their efforts to use their main resource to create better living conditions for their inhabitants. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say a few words about the right of public access. Allemansrätten is an important basis for the public to be able to reside freely in forest and land. With the right comes demands for consideration and prudence to nature and wildlife, to landowners and to other people. Uncertainty about the meaning of public access is often a cause of conflict. There is a need to update existing legislation in order to better respond to current demand and clarify the meaning of public access rights, not least in order for our landowners to feel that they have influence over their property and existence. Many children and young people today grow up in an urban environment without a natural connection to the countryside. There is little understanding of rural and landowner conditions, and in some cases there is a lack of respect for and knowledge of nature. Urbanisation has brought new needs, demands and expectations for nature. The general knowledge of the right of access needs to be improved. New industries have emerged, which in itself is positive for rural areas, but at the same time they must be conducted with respect for property rights and in cooperation with landowners. Today, there is a lack of clarity as to where the distinction goes between the right of public access and the right of ownership. For example, it is unclear how much rights the public has and how far landowners can go to protect their property against intrusion. Recurrent conflicts arise when landowners find destroyed forest plants or wear on the ground that have adverse effects on crop yields or when close visitors are inside the home peace zone. Increased public access to information is needed in order to overcome the problems currently affecting landowners, who once again feel that they do not have an influence on their own lives.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1012	Madam President, I would like There was a lot I thought about when Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson spoke. But one thing he did not mention was biodiversity at sea and at sea. It is an area that is at least as vulnerable as the depletion of biodiversity on land. There I simply wonder what the Christian Democrats have for politics. In just over 40 per cent of the marine reserves that we have today in Sweden, large-scale bottom trawling is allowed. We know that bottom trawling as it is done in its most classic way is a very penetrating method where everything that grows on the bottom is swept down by the heavy trawls that are dragged along the bottom. I wonder if the Christian Democrats think it would be a good idea to ban bottom trawling in at least the marine reserves. I also wonder what the Christian Democrats have a vision of how much more marine protection they want to create. Are you satisfied with the level that exists today, or do you want to devote more money to increased protection?
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1015	Madam President, I would like As I said last time we had a meeting in the Environmental Objectives Committee, my experience with the seas is that I paddle on the sea or swim in it. I will therefore immediately admit that my knowledge of the seas is not so great. That's not my area. But when it comes to bottom trawling, we are in favour of continuing with it. We see that there is a struggle between research on the one hand and professional fishing on the other. As I understand it, they are trawling in the same areas all the time, because the fish are moving in the same areas. Then they do not trawl in other areas. The areas where bottom trawling is currently largely already destroyed. However, it does not continue to trawl in other areas because there is no fish there. The Christian Democrats still believe that where bottom trawls are to be allowed to continue, because fishing is a very important industry for many along our coasts. But research and science are not entirely in agreement. I have noticed that when we have worked in the Environmental Objectives Committee. Jens Holm requests other areas. One thing that we have in our draft budget and that we are looking at is oxygenation to bring back life to the bottom. What can we do there? That is an example. Unfortunately, I do not have this whole budget in my head. But this is what I came up with now.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1020	Madam President, I would like Giving more money to oxygenation of bottoms is a good and important measure. But I thought more about whether the Christian Democrats had ambitions to spend more money to cover up larger areas at sea. Today we are protecting about 13% of marine areas. We in the Left Party have a vision of protecting 20%, which would be in line with the international commitments we have. But we can leave that question. I think that the issue of bottom trawling is interesting, and one can look at the areas where we have previously trawled and no longer trawls. For example, there is an area in the Koster Sea where there is a complete ban on trawling but where it was previously trawled. There you can see that biodiversity is recovering phenomenal and that corals are actually growing there. It is not common in Swedish seas. It is therefore an area where trawling has taken place in the past. If we are to have reservations and they are really supposed to have some meaning and significance – we talked about quality in the reserves – perhaps one has to accept that one cannot bottom trawl in these areas, because these are supposed to be protected areas. I am doing this as a contribution to the Christian Democrats, so that they can study this issue a little more closely. I think it is very important that we have high-quality marine reserves where species can be given a chance to recover.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1024	Madam President, I would like I do not really have much more to add to the debate. As I said in my previous speech, with fishing in the same areas, other areas are protected. We've got a marine reservation today. So there are areas that are protected. Then it is gratifying, as Jens Holm points out, that biodiversity after the end of fishing is recovering. Nevertheless, we must put this against the industry and professional fishing, which is a very important part of those who live along our coasts. It's really important work. Fishing is also important for us to get our own fish on the table and for us not to have to import so much food from other countries. Every other bite with food that we eat is actually imported. Of course, if we can get domestic food, it is better than importing fish from other countries.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1027	Madam President, I would like As a result of the January agreement, in which the Liberals have been given a good ear for their policies, and for time to come, I only call for our reservation 3 on global issues of biodiversity. I also refer to our specific opinion. This report deals with issues relating to how we ensure the conservation of certain species, how we restrict other species, how we protect fragile nature and how we ensure that it is possible to build in other natures. On top of that, there is also little about GMOs. In eight minutes this will not be dealt with. That is why I am going to raise just a few of the questions here. We depend on nature and biodiversity for our survival. Therefore, the most valuable nature must also be protected, for example through nature reserves and national parks, on land and at sea. The unique right of public access must be safeguarded, both for the sake of public health and because we thus ensure that future generations understand the importance of nature and biodiversity. It is also an important basis for creating good conditions for a growing nature and ecotourism. Endangered animals and plants must be protected by means of sheltering, restoration and the work of Artdatabanken. These are issues that are also addressed in the January agreement between the Government, the Center Party and the Liberals. However, in order to preserve biodiversity, efforts are also needed to combat invasive species, which are otherwise a threat to our natural flora and fauna. The fact that Sweden should have viable strains of all five large predators is obvious. But it is also a sensitive issue, as we all know. In fact, sensitivity seems to depend mostly on geographical rather than political location. We need balanced decisions, and we need to base them on research, regionalised predatory management and a live dialogue with the local population in the areas particularly affected and with citizens in general in order to create understanding and legitimacy for legislation and for the work of the authorities. There must be no doubt that the authorities are doing good work. This report also deals with seals and cormorants. Since I live in a municipality surrounded by water – Öresund, Skälderviken and Kattegat – I must of course raise the issue, because we probably have as much seals and cormorants as we have people in the municipality. Of course, I know that they are partly causing great damage, mainly to coastal fishing. Then it can be seen as strange that I did not exactly choose to sign up to an extended possibility of hunting, as some parties are presenting today. Protection hunting is today the only allowed hunting form of seal and cormorant and may take place if the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency so decides, for example to prevent serious damage and if there is no other suitable solution. Let us remember again that it is not the seal that has upset the balance or ecosystems but that it is man. The Environmental Protection Agency allows hunting. However, the issue of extending the protection hunt needs to be seen in the light of the county boards' reporting, which shows that rarely more than 50 percent of the allocation is actually convicted. To then increase the allocation of protection hunting can hardly be the solution. Instead, of course, efforts are needed to ensure that protection hunting decisions can be fully exploited. The questions about how Sweden can achieve sustainable management of seals are also under preparation in the Government Office. Liberals are following this work closely, and we will see where we end up. It may be that an extended hunt is needed but not until we have used all the other possibilities. Madam President, I would like We Liberals want to reform beach protection again to allow for more beachfront housing in areas where exploitation pressures are not very severe. At the same time, however, the liberals are a clear guarantee of strong general beach protection, both for universal accessibility along our shores and for the protection of biodiversity. We note that the 2009 reform of beach protection in order to ensure a more flexible application of the rules has not had enough impact – or anything at all – I would venture to say. As beach protection rules work today, they too much prevent homes from being built in attractive locations. The municipalities have too little opportunity to create conditions for expansion in places where people want to live. The Liberals will actively work to ensure that the item in the January agreement on a study on the protection of the beach will fundamentally reshape the protection of the beach with increased differentiation and increased local influence. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about the committee's announcement to the government regarding GMOs. The announcement means that I do not have to endorse the Liberals' motion in this part. We know that yield can increase in an environmentally friendly way by adapting plant varieties and farming methods to local conditions. We also know that genetic engineering, which is faster than conventional plant breeding, is important in this work. Different techniques can lead to the same result, but today's legislation makes a difference to the processing method used. Plant varieties produced by traditional plant breeding may be permitted, whereas plant varieties with the same characteristics as those produced by GMO technology are not. This regulatory framework hampers the development of new plant varieties as well as the development of agriculture. It should be the changing characteristics of the crop and its potential environment, yield and health effects that are important to consider, not the processing method as such. Against this background, the legislation on genetic engineering should be modernised and made technology neutral, says the committee, and the Liberals agree with that.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1043	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of what Tina Acketoft said in her speech. It is sad, however, that we do not agree on the seal. This is not really a reply, but rather an addition to the Minutes. Tina Acketoft referred to the fact that it is unable to shoot the seals for which protection has been given. The reason for this is that the requirements before you are allowed to shoot are so high. It is not just going out and shooting a seal, it must be in direct connection with fishing gear and so on. This is about meters. What applies around seal protection hunting is very strictly regulated. This is the reason, not that the seal strain is too small. Shooting seals through protective hunting is very difficult if you are to stay within the law's limits. I just wanted to put it on the record.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1046	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson! Yes, it is possible that it had to be recorded in the Minutes. However, I believe that this is knowledge that probably everyone in this Chamber has. As things stand today, the seal population is obviously viable. That is why I chose not to sign the proposal to extend protection hunting or hunting for seals. There are other issues that we need to resolve first so that we can use 100% instead of the 50% that we are doing today. Not 17 more seals will be shot if we say we can shoot 150 % if we now have 100 % and can only shoot 50 %. Of course, we must have measures in place that will enable us to actually and actively use the entire quota we have. I might add that it is incredibly difficult where I live, because there are porpoises swimming between seals. How do you do that? There are problems. However, as I said, the solution right now is not to increase the number, but the solution is to see what regulatory simplifications we can make and how we can develop the methods needed to fill the quota that already exists today.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1050	Madam President, I would like Such a simplification is obtained by obtaining a licence hunt, as there are not as high standards. Then you have to go out to hunt for seals. You don't just have to shoot the seal when it's on the fishing gear and stay within a few meters. The simplification of the rules that Tina Acketoft is talking about is therefore given if you move to a licence hunt. I have nothing more to add to the debate because I have what I wanted to put on the record.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1052	Madam President, I would like What Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson says is true, i.e. that there will be changed rules if you change the title of where the seal can be shot, so to speak. However, the sustainable management of seals is under preparation in the Government Office. Moreover, there are still 50% of the quota that we do not fire off. I would first like to see where we end up when we find other solutions. As I said in my speech, we are not 100% against this. But as things stand today and until we have seen what happens, we stand by this point.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1054	Madam President, I would like Rebecka Le Moine will later hold the Environmental Party's line speech on biodiversity and how important it is for Sweden to have a sharper nature policy and better protection of nature. I myself will address some specific issues contained in the report. Moreover, I support the reservations expressed by the Green Party, but I call for the winning approval of time only for reservation 13. In the 1980s, I worked at the Museum of Natural History. I was then able to follow the work led by researchers at the museum about how seals, sea eagles and herring pigs were threatened by organic environmental toxins and heavy metals. Sällarts in the Baltic Sea were acutely threatened due to environmental toxins but also due to high hunting pressure. Today the seal has begun to recover. We should be pleased about this, as the Director-General of HaV also said at a seminar as late as yesterday. Reducing pollution in our environment so that animal species can recover are important successes. The Green Party does not think this is the time to open up for seal hunting. Although there is considerable knowledge that seals can cause damage to coastal fishing, the protection hunt that exists is unfortunately not fully exploited. Efforts should now be made to facilitate and streamline the management of seals and to ensure full use of protection hunting decisions. In addition, this is an issue that is being prepared in the Government Office. We therefore think it reasonable to wait for a decision before taking measures that are already under way. This means that the announcement comes a bit like a so-called napkin sketch. One aspect that needs to be taken into account is the aspect of animal welfare. It is not simply hunting seals. If the mud misses, the seal dives. Damaged seals are subjected to a very great deal of suffering. It is extremely important to come up with proposals that are more elaborate than this. The management of GMOs is regulated at EU level. The procedures for risk assessment and authorisation of GMOs shall be carried out on a scientific basis, taking into account the precautionary principle. Research should of course be encouraged. The use of GMOs in Sweden must not lead to a negative impact on biodiversity. It is therefore important that the precautionary principle continues to apply. It is very important that GMO products are clearly labelled. We do not believe that there is any reason to change the legislation at present. To claim in the name of climate that GMOs would be a solution is – I have to say – a huge exaggeration. In order to adapt agriculture to climate change, we need to see significant progress towards fossil-free agriculture and reduced use of inputs such as fertilizers and chemical pesticides. In addition, many GMO applications lock us in an increased dependence on chemicals and an agri-ecosystem with a major impact on the environment, especially on biodiversity. This applies, in particular, to the polliners, the wild and domestic bees, which we must guard precisely for the sake of food production. Madam President, I would like Have you noticed that the talgox sings when you are on your way to Parliament in the morning? Have you noticed that the song teachers are flying over the fields, that the crocus is blooming in the flowerbed, and that trees and shrubs are budding more and more? Spring is indeed on its way, and soon greenery begins. It is this time of year that many people begin to yearn for nature. It is also this time of year that farmers begin to let their cows out in the pastures. We'll thank them for that. They're doing a great job for nature. There are many farmers we should thank. We should also thank the eco-farmers, who do not squirt. They certainly benefit biodiversity. Among other things, they benefit the birds – the yellow sparrow and the song larch to name two. Now that we yearn for nature, it's that forest walk that mirages, when it's still bright like this after work. It can also be about the first tour of the canoe or bird watching, because each time you are out you can discover that new birds have arrived. It can also be about just coming out and enjoying the blizzards and white anemones. That we can move freely in the forest and land we can thank the right of public access for. We need to protect the right of public access. When four parties, led by the Swedish Democrats, want to restrict the right of public access, we must involve all naturally loving Swedes in this discussion. When the Centre Party is constantly campaigning to strengthen ownership, I sometimes wonder what right is supposed to be weakened. Every man's right is everyone's right to be out in nature. The right of public access also imposes an obligation on those who are out in nature. You must show consideration to animals and nature, to landowners and to other visitors. Tourism is a growing basic industry for Sweden, and the role of the right of public access to natural tourism is crucial. We need to protect the right of public access. The beach protection must be investigated, according to the January agreement. Beach protection has been in place since the 1950s – 100 meters up on land and 100 meters out into the water has been protected. The purpose of the beach protection is to ensure the conditions for universal access to beach areas and to preserve good habitats for animals and plants on the beaches. Thanks to the beach shelter, we can walk along the beaches, swim, fish, skate or make beachcuts with the boat. The beaches are also among the most species-rich environments in Sweden. Yngel grows up in the eel meadows, and the species wealth is extra large along the untouched river stretches. When the beach protection is now being investigated, we from the Green Party can also see the benefits of some changes. We think it is good that it should be possible to build housing and strengthen villages and urban areas in rural areas. We think it is good that nature tourism and outdoor life can have their needs met with different facilities. We believe that agriculture and the horse industry should have equal conditions to develop and, for example, be able to build fences down towards lakes and streams. We believe that the information on decisions taken on beach protection must be improved, both to the owners and to the general public. We also think that the beach shelter should be strengthened where the beaches are hard exploited. The County Administrative Board of Norrbotten has done a very fine job. They have made a digital map of all the beaches in Sweden. There you can really get an overview of how the beaches in Sweden are exploited. It is quite well known that the beaches in Stockholm County are hard-exploited – about 50 percent of the seashore is once-exploited. But it is 37 percent of Västerbotten's coastline that is exploited, and 35 percent of Norrbotten's seashore is exploited. If you compare with the lakes, that is a much smaller part that is exploited – in Norrbotten it is only 5 percent. Even if it is a small number, it may be interesting to know that it is almost a rule that there is at least one cottage at each lake throughout Sweden. There is an enormous shortage of completely untouched lakes, and it is quite unique with miles of uninfluenced sea routes. Therefore, we also need to tighten up the beach protection so that we can effectively protect the most valuable nature we have in Sweden. I would like to conclude by quoting something that the Prime Minister said when he read out the government declaration in this House: .....................................................
i-2yBMxkrTHL1VmkSg57EHzY	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for your speech. I was actually going to ask a question, but I also reacted to something that Maria Gardfjell mentioned here. Among other things, it is about seal hunting. A reason s hill is that we can shoot seal. As the chairman of the committee said earlier, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was given a mandate and already stated in 2013 that it is possible to carry out a seal hunting licence. Surely we must hope that the authority was in control and could take into account that no animal would be killed – we do not want that of course. Maria Gardfjell also raised – and remarked – the question of genetic engineering being something that could be in the interest of the climate and that could be used in its name. I am surprised that Maria Gardfjell does not see the possibility that genetic engineering can actually provide. It is one method among others, but compared to conventional plant breeding it would be much faster to bring about changes in crops. What the committee has said is that we want technology-neutral legislation where it does not matter that a new crop, which is perhaps more drought-resistant or which may tolerate wet better, is not produced using conventional plant breeding techniques but with other modern technologies. This is what research and innovation have given us, and it is surprising that it cannot be used.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1081	Madam President, I would like Betty Malmberg first brought up the seal hunt. Although the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency says that it is possible to introduce licence hunting, it does not need to be desirable. On the issue of GMOs, in fact, the genetic engineering committee had quite recently a case in which the climate argument was used as a reason for the decision. There it turned out that there was a proposal to genetically-modify a grain that would contain 7% instead of 5% oils in the core, I think it was. This claim could be useful in replacing different types of mineral oils with fossil-free alternatives in the future. I think that was an extremely far-fetched argument; perhaps a combination of wheat and oats is not exactly an oil crop at all. I have to say that we really are grasping straws when using climate arguments in GMO contexts.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1083	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell for her answers. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has said that license hunting is possible but not desirable, claims Maria Gardfjell. However, we do not know whether the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has established whether it is desirable or not. The Authority has said that it is possible to carry out a licence hunt. The fact that the Social Democrats, together with the Left Party and the Green Party, do not find it desirable is, in my view, another issue. The important thing here was that an authority has established that licence hunting is possible. The fact that we then have political differences of opinion as to whether it is reasonable or not to do so is a secondary issue. When it comes to genetic modification, the same parties point out in their reservation that the precautionary principle must be taken into account, that it must be scientifically based and that it must also be ensured that biodiversity cannot be affected in any way. In fact, Madam President, that is already in the statistics governing genetic engineering. There is nothing in the announcement that we hope the Parliament will vote in favour tomorrow that is in any way in opposition to this. When the Swedish Board of Agriculture says that their leave to appeal is sufficient and that the risk assessment they need to carry out is sufficient, it is included that this is also tested against biodiversity. I don't really understand what it is that these parties see a danger in.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1086	Madam President, I would like With regard to the Environmental Protection Agency and the seals, I have to say that I am very pleased that we have a common position between the Environmental Party, the Social Democrats, the Liberals and the Left Party on this issue. I think it is extremely important to ensure that the protection hunt that exists works better than today. Therefore, it would be wrong to come up with completely new directions and create solutions. It is important to improve the protection hunt that exists today. I think that Tina Acketoft from the Liberals gave an excellent speech about that – how it should be done and how one should prioritise there. As far as climate issues and different areas are concerned, we have heard in the political debate that there are different parties on the right that speak in favour of the introduction of nuclear power for the sake of the climate. Now it's GMOs for the sake of the climate. I am just waiting, Betty Malmberg, for someone to come and say that we should join NATO for the sake of the climate. I don't believe it.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1088	Madam President, I would like Maria Gardfjell said we have to protect the right of public access. Yes, we will. But the question, which I also raised in my main speech, is: Where is the line? The right also includes demands for consideration and caution towards nature, wildlife, landowners and other people. We want existing legislation to be updated so that it responds better to current demand, thus clarifying the right of public access. Maria Gardfjell mentioned nature tourism, which is an important part of our business community. But there too we have conflicts with the right of public access. For example, home in Värmland is a Natura 2000 area with a very rich bird life. Yes, so it is in the spring, until the canoe rental companies start their business. Then the canoeists come and drag their canoes there, because it's so nice to sit there and walk. Thus, there are no birds left when the eggs are actually to be hatched. It is therefore a question of seeing where the limit goes, for example in such areas. Then there are landowners who have their forest destroyed along, for example, canoe trails because they do not care about the laws that apply. I would still like to say that we have a job to do to strengthen the right of public access. In the case of berry picking, for example, there are some companies that really use nature above the limit of what should fall under the right of public access.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1092	Madam President, I would like I thank Kjell-Arne Ottosson for the question. I really must say that right of public access is an extremely important issue. It is important to stand up for the right of public access and protect it. Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson raises a number of questions related to where the limit should be for the right of public access and whether it should really be so strong that it should be protected in the Constitution, which is also the right. This is extremely important. A party friend of Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson and I were, like many others here, at a conference on fishing tourism and the development of the fishing industry. It was mentioned that the basis for developing fishing tourism is the right of public access. Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson mentions conflicts around the right of public access and takes an example where the right of public access comes in conflict with the protection of birds. It is possible for municipalities to initiate nature reserves and protected areas for different species. This would be a typical area where bird life could be protected by a restraining order on the beaches at certain times of the year. When it comes to berry picking, Madam President, I think it is extremely important to remember what an amazing resource for our food management the wild berries are. Many more berry pickers are needed around the country. I hope that a lot of people in the public sphere start picking more berries.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1096	Madam President, I would like As I said before, the right of public access is important. I'd love to go to the woods myself. I'm out paddling, walking in the mountains, riding long-distance skates and skiing. Of course I want to travel in the woods. It's hugely important. In her reply, Maria Gardfjell referred to this matter with protection against bird life. But those who own the forest, own the land, in some areas see their plantings destroyed because people walk there. So you take more liberties than the right of public access. We therefore believe that we need to find new ways of meeting the causes of conflict. As I said, the right of public access is important, but we also have the right of ownership. Someone actually owns the land. I often hear: I'm in my forest picking berries, I'm in my forest picking mushrooms! But no, it's not your forest just because you're there picking berries or mushrooms. In fact, someone owns it, and property rights are, as I mentioned, constitutionally protected. I would like to ask Maria Gardfjell once again – I turn the question around to see if I can get an answer then: Do you think that the right of ownership should at some point be clouded when it comes to how individuals can be affected?
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1100	Madam President, I would like There are absolute violations of the right of public access. There are examples of different actors who have simply destroyed nature, and that is not in accordance with the right of public access, but the right of public access implies an obligation to actually take advantage of nature and also take into account landowners and so on. The serious nature tourism companies make sure to make agreements with landowners when they are going to do different things. Then it will be win-win for the landowners and the growing business community in this area. I have to say that I sometimes think that part of the discussion on ownership is about the landowners perhaps being a little jealous of those entrepreneurs who have good ideas on how to make money from tourism in nature. I'd like to see less of that kind of jealousy. I want to see more of a growing industry in nature tourism.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1103	Madam President, I would like The right of public access and the protection of the beach are one of the finest things we have in Swedish legislation. It's about the public getting access to nature. Now you have already debated the right of public access, so let me ask you a few questions about the protection of the beach. Just as Maria Gardfjell said, the beach shelter has a long history in Sweden. We can go down to the continent – almost any country – and try to walk around a lake, along a beach or something like that, and we can see that there is rock-hard exploitation in countries where there is nothing like beach protection. Beach protection is simply about all people being able to listen to the larch's drill and feel the magic of the forest and the lake, to connect with what Gardfjell talked about earlier. On what Maria Gardfjell said, it sounded as if the 73-point agreement with the Center Party, the Liberals and the Social Democrats was about strengthening beach protection. However, paragraph 23 of the agreement refers to the fundamental need to re-establish beach protection legislation. It is said that it will be easier to build close to the beach. There is talk of more housing, business, tourism, etc.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1108	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Jens Holm for the question. This is indeed an issue that I am very committed to. I cannot say that I was delighted that this issue came into the 73-point programme. The beach shelter is one of the finest things we have. But if you read a little longer in the point in the 73-point program that you just read out, there is also that we need to strengthen the beach protection. It is both a question of changing the protection of the beach and of strengthening it in some places. I think it is extremely important that we should also involve the public in the debate on the protection of the beach. I think, just like you said, Jens Holm, that many Swedes are worried when we are going to redo the beach shelter. You know well what it's like in other countries, and what you appreciate best in nature in Sweden is just access to the beaches. But there is absolutely reason to develop already existing villages, to have rural development and to strengthen agriculture and the horse industry. There are positive aspects to a change in beach protection that I can actually see and which I see in the dialogue that is taking place on beach protection. It's a matter of liking the situation a little bit. This point is contained in the 73-point programme, and now we have to be there too. I hope that the Left Party is also involved in defining what is okay and what is not okay when it comes to changes in beach protection.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1113	Madam President, I would like It should be remembered that the beach shelter has been reviewed and redesigned in several rounds. Most recently, it was the bourgeois government that introduced rural development in coastal locations, the so-called LIS areas. How well has it worked? I would like to say that it has become a big fiasco. It has not led to anything at all. Already today, there is a great deal of exemption from beach protection. It is already a flexible piece of legislation. I get worried when I read the point. The first point raised in paragraph 23 of the 73-point programme is that it should be easier to exploit. It is also true to say that protection should be strengthened, but, Madam President, allow me to doubt when the Green Party will strengthen the protection of the shores together with the Social Democrats, the Liberals and the Center Party. Allow me to doubt a bit. But I'll tell you what, good luck!
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1115	Madam President, I would like I hope I can have the opportunity to cooperate with Jens Holm and many others on these issues. We really need to have a dialogue with the Swedish people on how to look at the beach protection. Sometimes we forget that Sweden not only consists of landowners, but there are also a lot of people who want to come out into nature and experience nature. The interests of the landowner must stand against the possibility of taking a swim in a lake, swimming and adding the boat. Is it precisely the finest cliff on the lake to be exploited? Are the few remaining sandy beaches along our coasts to be exploited? I think we need to have a much more qualitative discussion on this. Thank you for giving too much exemption. It is not only in recent years that one has had the ambition to make more investments in rural areas, which I might think is okay. In the cities there has been a kind of general exemption from beach protection for a long time. I think there should be justice for the countryside, actually. But when you see that 37 per cent of Västerbotten's seashore is exploited and that there are almost no coastlines left that are one mile long and unexploited in Sweden – it has gone far too far! Here I think you should also have an idea discussion about the development of beach protection and where we think it is okay to develop Sweden. This can be about village development and development for agriculture. I think it's important.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1118	I would like to remind you, in all humility, that we do not address each other with, but use first and last names.
i-LtwUWx5yGqYDmVJzA21eSA	Madam President, I would like Like Runar Filper, I am in favour of reservations 5 and 14. The environmental policy of the Swedish Democrats is based on the idea of stewardship and has always been long-term, just as all our policies take into account the long-term consequences for future generations. In the same way that we and our ancestors have lived and lived in the wonderful Swedish nature with all its shapes and changes, our children and future generations must have the same opportunity. To live off and with respect for nature is just as obvious. Much is being done today that is good for biodiversity, but the price tag is high. If we had normal levels of immigration in recent decades, there would have been no problem – then the money would have been there. However, due to the policy pursued, Sweden has incurred considerable future costs. This means that there will be much less economic space in the future. This will be reinforced by the fact that we are entering a recession, probably soon. The situation will last for many years. So what do we have to do? Well, then we do well to try to find cost-effective solutions in environmental policy. This makes environmental policy robust in times of poorer economy and less economic space. It's a sustainability in itself. It's about saving money on what's less effective. It is about finding synergies and finding particularly effective measures to protect and strengthen biodiversity. Biodiversity is not just about the disposal of reserves. Much of it depends on the active use of land and forest with a gentle hand, just as Runar Filer explained a moment ago. It requires knowledge. It requires new technology. It requires the commitment of the users, and it requires profitable industries. The latter three conditions are forgotten by many. Madam President, I would like There are three areas that have received too little attention and where action would effectively lead to the protection of biodiversity:
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1126	The transition between forest and field, so-called forest cliffs, provides life conditions for many species, including endangered species, if the brows are properly managed. In addition, brows have a natural linear range and are everywhere in the landscape, reducing the risk of fragmentation. A less effort brings great results. Today, the intensively used arable land lacks environmental monitoring. It is a good idea to monitor the biological status of agricultural land, both from an environmental perspective and from a long-term production perspective. There is a synergy here. In this way, long-term changes that can affect biodiversity and productivity can be detected. What you discover can then be fixed. The EU and Sweden in particular have been embarrassingly late on the ball when it comes to invasive species. It is species that have been moved here with human help and that have become a problem for biodiversity and for the economy. They are one of the greatest threats to biodiversity. Finally, we got rules. It is now important to follow closely the application of the rules and to be prepared to take action. In these areas we have made proposals. You have not yet adopted them; I think that is a sin. There is also reason to focus on legislation that does not work. The environmental code's rules on protection against the marginal exploitation of agricultural land have become a rounding mark. It hasn't worked. We propose review and change. It is a pity that we were not supported by the rest of you there either. We've been talking about genetic engineering legislation. It doesn't work either. Technology development has made it obsolete. Fortunately, there is a majority who realise this. That is why tomorrow Parliament will most likely vote through a revision of the genetic engineering legislation, in order to modernise it and make it technology neutral. The decision is based on the understanding that the technology with which a plant or another organism changes is not interesting. It is the level of risk that should be allowed to determine whether, for example, a plant is approved. What is risky should be treated as risky. What's not risky should be handled like it's not risky. It makes sense, and it's science-advised. The decision is, in fact, self-evident, but it is historic in that it puts an end to a decade of doubt as to which is Sweden's position. Sweden is setting its foot down tomorrow. But that does not change our cautious attitude, if anyone thinks so. Then it is a pity that the Riksdag does not dare to take a further step to enable Swedish agriculture in the near future to get tools for plant breeding that would bring Sweden up to the top position of agriculture, both financially and in view of offensive environmental characteristics. This applies, for example, to plants that reduce the use of input funds. I can give you an example. Potatoes resistant to leaf mold would significantly reduce driving. Today, in conventional potato cultivation, a dozen or so runs can be made on the field only to combat leaf mold. You spray with fungicides. You wouldn't have to. It does not take this further step. The Swedish Parliament abstains from voting in favour of the Swedish Democrats' proposal to examine the current interpretation of the EU Court of Justice's unclear judgment on new processing techniques. The Parliament also abstains from voting in favour of our proposal to use the exception clause contained in existing genetic engineering legislation to test the most straightforward products.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1135	Madam President, I would like I thought I had heard everything in this Chamber, but I was surprised. Suddenly, the Swedish Democrats blame the poor environmental policy on immigration. That is an absurd idea, and it is terrible to have to hear it in this House, which, after all, is the centre of democratic Sweden. Here everything is blamed on the immigration of the Swedish democrats. It may not be entirely unexpected but very, very sad. We are discussing environmental policy today. We can read what the Swedish Democrats wrote about their environmental policy in their budget motion last autumn. We can think a little bit about whether it is their environmental policy that is best or not. They claim it is. In fact, they do not blame immigration right here. It is nice that it is not in the text, although it was raised in speeches. To be honest, there were a lot of refugees coming to Sweden in 2015. It contributed to record growth. It was already underway, but it strengthened even more. This allowed us to have a space for reform that enabled us to invest a record amount of money in the environment, among other things. During the last parliamentary term alone, the number of protected areas increased by 40 per cent in Sweden. It is an outstanding policy. That is something we should all be proud of in this House. We can read what the Swedish Democrats write about this. It is believed that it is a running cost development in the environmental field in Sweden. It has then increased from 5.3 billion in 2015 to 11.8 billion in 2018. It's supposed to be a disaster. It is extremely bad, according to the Swedish Democrats. It is believed that rather than doing so, one should have been much more moderate. We can read about what the Swedish Democrats themselves should invest here. You shouldn't bet anything. Almost EUR 4 billion is being cut in the climate and environment sectors. I wonder if Staffan Eklöf can answer the question: in what way does the slaughter of environmental policy by the Swedish democrats improve environmental policy?
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1140	Madam President, I would like I'll say something very briefly. Population growth leads to increased consumption of welfare. It's a cost. And if you don't get people to work, there won't be a corresponding increase in income. It's as simple as that. The difference is that we're starting from realities-- that's part of the definition of us-- while some others aren't. There is no budget debate now, but I will be happy to answer the question. We make cuts because there are needs in many places. Those needs will not diminish. They're going to increase. I tried to explain it in the speech. You can look at the cuts we make – it's about environmental monitoring, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and measures for valuable nature. We are on the same level as the government in 2017. If our budget is considered insufficient today, the government budget for 2017 is considered insufficient. Then my question to Magnus Manhammar is: Does Magnus Manhammar not think that we should start from reality? Should we start from something that doesn't add up?
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1143	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, which was whether I think it is important that we start from reality. Of course, I think it is absolutely crucial. That is why we are here: we are going to change reality and hopefully make it much better. The reality that we are facing right now is, as several of us have witnessed here, that we are facing the sixth mass extinction of species on earth. Here in Sweden there is also extinction of species. Although it is not as serious here as in many other places, we are facing alarming developments when it comes to species, not least because of climate change but also because of the over-exploitation that is taking place in Sweden. In this reality, we need a record investment in environmental work. We need a record on protection of a valuable nature. That's exactly what we need to do. This has been done by the previous government, and I hope that the current government will do the same. On the basis of what is said in the January agreement, I know that there will be quite a lot. The Swedish democrats, on the other hand, go to elections on, and even push after the elections, to make environmental policy worse. You're supposed to cut 4 billion. The slaughter of environmental policy that the Swedish democrats want to do is as great as the slaughter Donald Trump did in the United States and which was booed out by the world. I even believe that the slaughter that the Swedish democrats tried to do here in Sweden is greater. The effect of what happened last autumn and the budget that went through was precisely that support for protection of a valuable nature was reduced enormously. It decreased by 52 percent if you read what the Nature Conservation Association says. This 52% has had quite a major impact on the environment. The county administrative boards themselves say that, due to the cuts, active supervision cannot be carried out at the moment. It has concrete consequences in reality, and that is what I think we should discuss here. I find it very sad that the Swedish Democrats have an unserious policy when it comes to the environment.
i-SEpZUxFMQ4VzRzG8eZ3Q5k	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Manhammar, for the questions! Firstly, minus 4 billion is a definition on the part of the honourable Member. But as we see it, it is a matter of method. The major cutbacks are on the climate side with climate change, which is largely condemned as ineffective by the Swedish National Audit Office. Secondly, we are making other efforts, which you do not call climate action. We have realised that the methods chosen must be questioned. We want to invest money in developing countries that are now building their infrastructure and choosing the path between climate-burdening and climate-friendly development. We spend money on technology development that can have a global impact. For frankly, what we do in Sweden and what we save here will unfortunately not affect the climate in any way. We are far too small a country, and no one will follow us if they do not have much money and, moreover, are a democracy. What I have been talking about here is about having an effectiveness perspective on environmental policy, and that is essential. It's always good to have it, because you shouldn't waste tax money. But it will become even more important in the future. Many of the efforts that have been made and which we have criticised and cut back on have been ineffective measures. Instead, we have invested in effective measures, and this is consistent with our policy. One can of course have different opinions, but then one should criticise it on that basis and say that we do not believe that this policy is good without us looking at it differently. Nevertheless, the effectiveness of environmental policy must be taken into account. There has been very little of that product in the past, and everyone, no matter what one thinks, should embrace the idea of efficiency in the field of environmental policy.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1152	Madam President, I would like I really bounced when I heard Staffan Eklöf say that we have insufficient resources for environmental work because of too much immigration. Is it not the case, Madam President, that we have insufficient resources because the Swedish Democrats, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, have voted through a budget that halves the funding for biodiversity and also abolishes taxes for the richest, taxes on emissions from environmentally harmful activities and air taxes? The Swedish Democrats wanted to reduce the CO2 tax, the diesel tax and so on. I would like to ask Staffan Eklöf why the Swedish Democrats are blaming a neglected environmental work, as you were here, on refugee families from Syria and Afghanistan. Why do you send the bill to them?
i-Gw8f9TPqz9t663tnTwbAoj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! The money is enough, says Jens Holm. There's a lot of money, it sounds like when Jens Holm talks. We can invest a great deal in the environment. But the money is not enough. We are short of money, and this is due not least to migration policy. It's very obvious. The money is not enough for a sensible health care, not for the police and not for the defence. SKL writes that you have to increase the municipal tax by several SEK in order to get the budgets together. The money is therefore not enough in Sweden. These are difficult times, and there are even more difficult times. Priority must then be given, and one way to prioritise is to ensure that each policy area is effective. Efficiency thinking has not been so present in environmental policy, and that is what we are introducing. As far as refugees are concerned, we have a refugee policy that helps the most. I think that's the answer to that question.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1158	Madam President, I would like I agree that we need to give priority to politics. It is not always fun to tell the banks that we need a bank tax, because you have made profits of SEK 100 billion and can contribute a little more to the welfare and environmental work. And you super rich get to contribute a little more with a wealth tax, because we need money for welfare and environmental work. The 'polluter pays' principle means that those who pollute a lot also have to pay extra for it. That is why we in the Left Party were involved in introducing the air tax, which is why we have a carbon tax and therefore we have taxes and charges on other activities that pollute. In all these areas, the Swedish Democrats want the banks to go free, the super-rich to pay lower taxes and the polluter not to pay taxes. The Swedish Democrats are lowering these taxes. No wonder that there is no money for environmental work in the world of Staffan Eklöf and the Swedish Democrats! Nevertheless, I would like to ask: why do you place responsibility on the refugee families who came from Syria and Afghanistan, people fleeing from war and political persecution? Why can't the Swedish Democrats see that there are resources in this country to redistribute and add to the welfare and environmental work that so badly needs these resources?
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1162	Madam President, I would like Tax increases are a famous theme from Left Party, Jens Holm. But there you have to have both the short and the long perspective. Some tax increases can give money in the short term but losses in the long term. One example is the job tax deduction, which has created a lot of jobs. When you talk about taxes, you also have to assess the consequences of what you do. But the consequences often seem subordinate when the Left Party discusses tax increases. It does not assess the consequences of the tax increases it proposes, which in the long term may lead to a reduction in income for the state and a poor functioning of the economy and society.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1164	Madam President, I would like I do not wish to prolong this debate, but like my colleagues Jens Holm from the Left Party and Magnus Manhammar from the Social Democrats, I cannot quietly digest what Staffan Eklöf said here earlier. To blame refugees who strive to get away from hardships and difficult situations and to blame them for the fact that there is not enough money for an environmental policy is strange. These are astounding statements. What also makes this unfortunate is that I actually appreciate Staffan Eklöf's competence in many areas of agriculture. In political terms, the honourable Member has an incredible amount of competence, and the rest of his speech showed this. This involved, among other things, the edge of the field, but I felt that he failed to give an opinion on voluntary provisions for the larks. I share the view that environmental policy can be pursued more effectively, but with this speech I would strongly reject the comparison made by Staffan Eklöf at the beginning of his speech.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1167	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a strange country. It is strange that there is this reaction. Consequences matter. The Moderates have drawn ever closer to consequential thinking. Consequences play a role in all but one contexts. Why is that? Of course, the consequences of migration policy must be assessed, especially since it is so incredibly costly. Several have repeated the mantra, in this consensus-driven Sweden, that I should have blamed the refugees. It's actually a Baroque thought. I have clearly blamed red and blue governments. Now I am clarifying this. The blame lies with red and blue governments that have been pursuing a wrong policy for many years. It's not on the refugees. The refugees will be helped, and we will help them in the most effective ways to assess the consequences for them and for us. We have the most effective policy. It is because we dare to see the consequences of all action, not just of a certain act, but of all action.
i-YJnCoPWe59ZFcXLkZTzSuf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Staffan Eklöf, for the clarification! Clarification gives a different picture of what was said, but my experience earlier depended on, and what caused me to react, the words expressed in the speech. But of course, we'll have to let it be the last thing that's been said. Of course, consequences matter. I have no other opinion. That's obvious, isn't it? We have a policy, we have a responsibility for Sweden and for what happens in our country, how we affect other countries and how other countries affect us. We Moderates are in favour of a global presence and international cooperation. It has served Sweden well. But I go back to the fact that these consequences cannot then be blamed for the fact that we cannot cope with environmental policy. Is that the argument that is being put forward in each area? Is that why we don't get enough results in school? How do the Swedish Democrats argue in this situation? That is surprising, and it was an amazing statement. I am in favour of making more of socio-economic analyses. That is something that we Moderates advocate. I find it interesting that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency also takes up such an analysis as an alternative. This must be done in order to assess where politics is going. But that way to saw a vulnerable group even with the ankles does not feel decent, Staffan Eklöf.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1175	Madam President, I would like Betty Malmberg refers to an experience. I find it remarkable that three speakers have misunderstood what I have said together. It is significant for the climate of debate in Sweden. This tells me that we have not come that far in Sweden. We are coming out of a bad climate of debate, but we have not come so far, given that people can misunderstand in such a way that they themselves believe in it. This can only happen in Sweden. I mentioned in my speech the challenge we have in the field of immigration and the cost of immigration. It is the single largest factor, and it is systematically forgotten by all other parties in all contexts. It is important for democratic reasons to raise this issue. Citizens will see where the money goes and what the flow between different posts looks like. The reaction to my speech is a bad receipt of today's climate of debate. That's my final comment.
i-262eae81ea6b37ba-1178	Madam President, I would like What does a tick matter? Many would probably equate its value with zero, but we want to preserve pandas and tigers, which indirectly protects both mosses and snails. Speciesism is not a fictional word; it describes our values of life on Mother Earth, or rather, more clearly and more clearly discrimination based on species. But what kind of extreme self-righteousness do we possess where we sit and try to make important decisions based on fictional attributes? Madam President, I would like Nature does not need us, and it is a fundamental problem that we do not understand that we are part of the same system. What if what is unfair is actually absolutely invaluable to provide us with the services we use every day? There is no law of nature that says that the open market follows population ecology. It is rather the case, Madam President, that it is in the outdated economy that we have eradicated the amount of mammals by 46% over the last 40 years. We beat all those terrible records. What does solidarity mean? Are there services limited within our humanity, or can we feel empathy beyond Homo sapiens and actually allow other species their existence? Man's failed play is a world-historical betrayal when we cannot manage the planet's life because there is a lack of genuine drive, when all it takes is to make a career completely regardless of how it takes on the planet. If we cut down the forests and dam up the watercourses, I fear the day future students sit in biology classes and read that their parents were the main characters who put an end to the ecological interactions. That is why we must begin to teach that not all values are monetary. If we really want to solve our challenges, we must realise, Madam President, that our fellow species are anything but useless. Madam President, I would like Tonight we are talking about biodiversity. Biodiversity can feel alien and academic, but it is also the basis for our entire well-being. According to the UN definition, this is about the diversity of all living organisms. It is therefore about all animals, all plants, all mushrooms, big and small, ugly and sweet. From the little beetle nobody knew about, to the big tiger. Biodiversity is a prerequisite for a living ecosystem, a knowledge library and a free resilience to future environmental changes, such as a warmer climate. Madam President, I would like 40 – 50 percent of today's medicines originate from plants. The global market value of medicinal plants exceeds $60 billion annually. Protection of the diversity of the forest ecosystem is crucial for the continued collection of medicinal plants. Today, about half of all these plants are under threat. We know that the wealth of nature makes us feel better. Already after four five minutes walk in the forest, our pulse and blood pressure drop. About 80 per cent of the Swedish people say that it is necessary for our quality of life to be able to stay in nature. About a third of the food we eat has been pollinated by bees and bumble bees, and there is research that says that a loss of pollinators would cost around SEK 200 billion annually in the EU. But then the question is whether all species must be justified with an economic benefit for us humans. I do not think so, Madam President, and that is what makes me an environmental party. Our party program states that we believe that all living things have their own value regardless of their benefit to man. For me, it has been a journey to discover that something that feels so obvious to me is anything but standard here in Parliament House. Madam President, I would like The fact that the threat of loss of biodiversity is not as well-known as the climate threat is no wonder because much more is reported about the climate than about nature. Most people who think about the environment today probably think about carbon dioxide. But the fact is that the planetary boundary that is most transcended is the one for the loss of species. That species come and species go is natural. What's unnatural is the speed they're disappearing in. The death rate is now 100 – 1 000 times faster than the background death, and we people are clearly responsible for this. Today, the land-living biomass is 35% of us humans and about 60% of the animals we eat. About 5 percent of today's land biomass is wild animals. We have radically refurbished the earth's surface, and of course it has affected a great many species. Yet we do not know which other species we share the planet with. Scientists estimate that there are somewhere between 10 million and 100 million other species. So far we have named and categorized about 1.5 million. If a species disappears, it is gone forever, and since we still do not know who we share our home with today, we certainly do the wisest in applying the precautionary principle. Madam President, I would like Biodiversity is not limited to a single country. Biodiversity is the responsibility of all countries. That is what the Convention on Biological Diversity says, and we are one of the more than 90 countries that have signed it. This means that we cannot continue to shoot wolves and justify it by the fact that there are more wolves elsewhere, because it is when all countries think like species are exterminated. It is we who must protect, strengthen and restore our nature – our meadows, our lakes, our rivers and our forests. Many people think spontaneously that this is a problem that is about what is happening on the other side of the world, but of course they are not. In Sweden there are more than 4 000 red-listed species, and although we have had an environmental goal called A rich plant and animal life for 14 years, we have not reached that goal. The area of the Convention on Biological Diversity with which most countries have failed is the financial resources to be used. That problem also has Sweden. What we have to do, which we in the Green Party are very happy that we got into writing about in the January agreement, is to increase the appropriation for protection of a valuable nature. Madam President, I would like Of course, the whole problem cannot be solved by means of protection. We want to see a society where it pays to work with nature instead of against it. That is why we in the Green Party want to benefit small-scale, ecological and nature-friendly users rather than the large industries that transform nature into monocultures. Large-scale forestry and agriculture are among the greatest threats to Swedish biodiversity. This is where we have the greatest number of red-listed species, but it is also where the key is to succeed in reversing the negative trends. There are many forestry and farmers who are now ahead of politics by voluntarily changing their practices in order to promote biodiversity. However, in order to get the majority involved, we see that it must be easy to do the right thing in forestry and agriculture too, and we in the Green Party want to use our political strength and creativity to find ways forward in this. Madam President, I would like The greatest threat to life on earth is perhaps our view of nature as an additional cost, a vision associated with the notion that we can do without nature. The climate issue is never as popular as when there is money to be gained from the coup. But the fact is that if we want to invest in the future, we need to invest in biodiversity, and that will cost. It's going to cost billions. This will mean saying no to profit by allowing water to run past hydroelectric power stations for the sake of water life. This will mean saying no to felling in order to let the ancient forests live on, and that will mean saying no to large-scale fishing on species that otherwise risk being wiped out. If we say 'no' to this, we say 'yes' to a prosperous future and a living planet. Madam President, I would like Biodiversity is also the basis for my political commitment. I've been working on this issue outside of parliament and I've seen how commitment increases day by day. I don't think there's anyone really active in the mass extinction of species. Yet we let it happen, passively, in silence. We must ensure that biodiversity is high in people's minds and high on the political agenda. There is knowledge, and there is great commitment among people together with strong determination to leave behind us a living planet for future generations. What has so far been lacking to an excessive extent is the power of political action. But with the Prime Minister's government declaration, which declared that biodiversity should be protected and ecosystems should be protected, I and my party think that this can change. I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 9 and thanking you for the debate.
