i-a9c2b961a6f48782-0	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to take measures to ensure that electricity and gas cars sold in Sweden also stay in Sweden. The conversion of the vehicle fleet in Sweden from fossil to renewable continues to increase. In 2018, almost 20,000 new climate bonus cars were registered, which is a strong increase compared to the previous year, and the forecast is also good for 2019. However, it is not possible to ensure that all environmental cars sold in Sweden also stay in Sweden, as the then Environment Minister explained in the answer to a previous written question ( 2015/ 16:1522). Sweden is part of the EU's single market, and second-hand cars are a commodity like everyone else. The European market is considerably larger than the Swedish market, so it is not surprising that some of the environmental cars that change owners are sold abroad. However, the government has paid attention to the risk of environmental cars being sold abroad to a greater extent than other cars and taking measures. In the new bonus – the Malus system, which was introduced on 1 July 2018, the bonus is paid out at the earliest six months after the car has been registered in the Road Traffic Register. The purpose of this rule is to make it less attractive to export a climate bonus car and thus promote that climate bonus cars are used to a greater extent in Sweden. Since the bonus started to be paid out as late as January 2019, it is too early to draw any conclusions about the effects of the rule. I will continue to monitor the development of exports of used environmental cars closely and, if necessary, amend the current regulatory framework.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-6	Mr President, I would like to The climate threat is acute. In Sweden, we have responded to the climate change goals and a climate law. In the transport sector, emissions will be reduced by at least 70% by 2030. The conversion of the fleet of vehicles is there an entirely supporting part – that we get a renewable fleet of vehicles. That is why we now have a so-called bonus – Malus system. If you buy an electric car or a biogas car, you get a government subsidy financed by higher taxes on the cars that pollute the most. The problem with this is that of the approximately 20 000 new climate bonus cars mentioned by the climate minister, 3 000 – 4 000 in the next year or years will disappear across Sweden's borders. So we have a state aid system that promotes the drainage of the best cars. This is breaking the second-hand market. Not everyone can afford to put up 400 000– 500 000 SEK to buy a new environmental car. If these cars are on the secondary market, they come out to broad layers of the Swedish population. Mr President, I would like to This is not a new question. We've been discussing it for quite some time. There are car rental companies and leasing companies that have put in systems to buy environmental cars with a bonus, and when they have received the bonus they unregister the cars and sell them to Norway, Germany and other countries. The State aid system is systematically used. We must act here. I am pleased that the Minister for Climate Action is prepared to act, but frankly I miss the concrete measures. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action: has the government seriously tried the idea of regulating de-registration and foreign sales within the first three years of the car being on the market? One option is to regulate the law so that the bonus is withdrawn if the car is unregistered and sold abroad during the first three years, for example. In the past, I have heard from the government that it is completely impossible to implement this within the European Union. But have you really tried this with the European Union? With such a fairly simple legal framework, the whole problem should be removed. You can also think of other things. You could pay out an extra bonus after two or three years so that there is an incentive to keep the cars in Sweden instead of selling them abroad. Of course, we also need to expand the conditions for keeping environmental cars in Sweden. We need more charging poles, larger charging infrastructure, more biogas pumps and continued tax reduction so that biogas and other renewable fuels are cheaper than fossil fuels. The government must fight this against the European Union. We also need more environmental zones where environmental cars can be rewarded and so on. I miss all these concrete proposals in the Environment and Climate Minister's response. However, she has the opportunity to come back here in the debate and tell us what concrete measures the government intends to take to ensure that the electric and biogas cars remain in Sweden and are useful here.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-15	Mr President, I would like to This is the third time in a week that I stand in the speaker's seat debating this issue. This is also the third time I have received a non-answer from the government. Exports of cars less than five years old increased last year by 107 per cent. There are figures showing that up to one third of all electric cars registered in Sweden disappear within a few years. They end up in Norway. Just as Jens Holm lifted up, the gas cars have had the same development. They've had that for a long time. They end up in the Netherlands and Germany. This is not a new issue. The cars are also not generally sold worldwide, which Isabella Lövin's response seems to show. These are targeted exports to countries where it is more profitable to own them. The government has not acted against this, and that worries me. If we are to achieve our tough goals, which we have put together, the instruments must also be active in Sweden. It is about making it profitable to own an environmental car, not just to buy it. This difference is very important. There are solutions, and Jens Holm highlighted one that involves dividing the bonus into two parts. The Center Party has long had a proposal for a green car bonus: it raises the bonus and 30 percent of it is awarded after four years, i.e. after the first leasing period has expired. This is when many of the cars disappear. Waiting for six months to pay out the bonus in the bonus – the Malus system is certainly good, but that's not what makes a difference when the first leasing period is complete. Then it does not matter if you have waited six months, because this happens after three years. Even other things would make a difference. The Norwegians themselves say: If you want the cars to stay in Sweden, there are a number of measures you can take. For example, municipalities may be able to offer free parking or differentiate parking according to the environmental performance of the car. On the basis of the same parameters, the tax on congestion can also be reduced or abolished. Where possible and reasonable one could be allowed to drive in a bus lane until a certain percentage of the cars have been reached. This is now becoming a problem in Norway, where you have a new car registration of up to 50%. But if we have a few percent in Sweden, this would be a very important measure to kick-start the market. The disappearance of these cars is a problem. We can't meet our climate targets if we don't reset. If we just look at when many of these cars – Jens Holm mentioned in his interpellation that it is about thousands – disappear we do not create the market needed for more charging poles or for more gas stations to open on market grounds. We have problems with biogas not finding proper disposal and being competed out by Danish dito. It would have made a big difference if the gas cars had stayed in Sweden and thus created a demand. What, Isabella Lövin, will the government do to overcome the problem? The proposals made in the interpellation response are not enough.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-25	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rickard Nordin and Jens Holm, for your commitment and your very legitimate questions! On the other hand, some of the premises for the question – that the government should not have done anything – are not up to me. We have introduced a new bonus – the Malus system that came into force on 1 July last year. Then we changed the way to pay out the bonus. In the previous super-environmental car premium, for example, a car dealer with a leasing car received 40,000 directly when purchasing a new car and could export the same car to the rest of the world in almost the same week without it having driven a single kilometre on Swedish roads. Now we have changed the system so that it takes six months before you get the first payment. We also know which countries 80% of these exports go to. There is no need to hymn about this. They go to Norway, which has very favourable rules for electric cars, and to Germany, which has a large market for gas cars. So now you don't get your bonus for six months. The leasing companies generally have their cars out for leasing for three years. In three years' time, we will see how these companies will act and whether they will continue to export to other countries. Perhaps the second-hand market in Sweden has then grown so that the cars are more attractive in Sweden. My absolute ambition and what the government is working for is to further expand the charging infrastructure in Sweden. We've been doing it at an explosive rate in the last four years. Now we have almost 7 000 charging points. When the government took office, there were fewer than 1,000 in the whole country. We also hear that car manufacturers in the market, such as Volvo, say that from 2021 they will only invest in electric cars. The restructuring of the car industry is very extensive. I do not think there is a car brand – at least not in Europe – that does not intend to switch to electric cars or charging hybrids in the near future. This means that the price of electric cars will go down very quickly. We will also see a demand in the secondary market. That's my hope. Having said that, I will, of course, follow it very closely. Given that 80% of exports are made via leasing companies, we obviously need to review whether the trend continues. There may be reasons for differentiation of bonuses to leasing companies, if they put this in systems. Instead, you can ensure that individuals receive the higher bonus. However, we have a free internal market, which means that cars are both exported and imported into Sweden. Many diesel cars are also exported from Sweden. That's what it looks like. At the same time, we know that half of the new car sales today become company cars. If we want to see a powerful shift to fossil-free cars and reduce emissions in the transport sector, we need to address and ensure that it is the entire large company car market with powerful customers who now primarily choose fossil-free cars when buying new cars. I will follow this very closely and I am prepared to take further action. However, we are at the start of a change in the car sector.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-35	Mr President, I would like to I am deeply concerned about developments. I have here with me statistics from Traffic Analysis. Of new clean electric cars, 10 per cent are exported. Of the charging hybrid cars, 12 per cent are exported, and as much as 35 per cent of biogas cars disappear across Sweden's borders. The Minister for the Environment and Climate Change now refers to the bonus – the Malus system that we have had since 1 July this summer. It sounds, Mr President, to the Minister like she wants to wait three years to act. Waiting for three years will mean three lost years. In the preliminary statistics for 2018, compiled by Trafikanalys, everything indicates that the problem is only growing. Even more electric and gas cars disappear from Sweden. We need to act now. As the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action says, it is mainly companies, legal entities, that have put this in a system. They buy in an environmental car with a bonus, take the entire bonus when it has been paid out and then unregister the car and sell it on. It may not have been driven a mile on Sweden's streets and does no good here. Above all, a state aid system is being used to make money. This does not contribute to our achieving the climate goals here in Sweden. I asked a concrete question whether the government has made contact with the EU and tried to regulate the law against the fraud with the environmental car bonus. I didn't get an answer. As the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action was involved, it is an internal market in the EU, and it must compete on the same terms. On the other hand, however, we have a host of environmental and climate objectives that the EU has said we must achieve. So the environment and the market are against each other here. I think we have a good case a good thing to show: We need to make sure that our bonus cars stay here in Sweden. I would therefore like to ask once again: has the government raised the issue of banning this export or, for example, regulating it so that it becomes liable for repayment if it deregisters the car and sells it abroad within a specified period, let us say somewhere between three and five years? I want answers to that. I also find it interesting that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action is opening up for a more flexible bonus money, that is, you can pay out an extra bonus for those who have left the car here in Sweden. I would like to know: is it a concrete proposal, or is it just something that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action himself finds interesting? It is very important with the charging infrastructure and the expansion of biogas pumps. The charging infrastructure for electric cars we see is growing, which is very good. As far as biogas pumps are concerned, I'm more worried. A lot more is needed. I am also concerned about the tax reduction that we have today for biogas. It is temporary and expires no later than 2021. Once again, the government must fight within the EU so that we can continue to promote biogas in Sweden.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-42	Mr President, I would like to Isabella Lövin's answer concerns me a lot. Yes, it is good that you can pay out the bonus in bonus – malus after six years. But that does not solve the problem of leasing companies exporting cars after two, three, four years. It doesn't make any difference. We have seen this problem for a long time in the gas market. This isn't what's gonna help. It doesn't help the second-hand market. Nor does it help the profitability of owning an electric car that we expand more gas stations, more charging stations and so on. It is also good and important, but it does not remedy the problem. It is a matter of making it more profitable to own a car like this. We have still not heard a single proposal. Isabella Lövin will have to come back with some suggestions about how it will be more profitable to own a car like this, because that's what makes the difference. This is where we find the reason why the cars end up abroad. We could possibly postpone something, but they will still end up abroad after a couple of years if we do not make ownership more profitable. One suggestion is to split bonus – malus, which Jens Holm highlights and which the Center Party has long highlighted. Other suggestions are free parking and discounted congestion tax. Another concerns the possibility to charge at the workplace free of charge. It is not allowed today, but it is to be taxed, but it is not really much different from, for example, the fruit basket. These are things that would make it more profitable and easy to own an electric car or gas car, and these are things that make a difference to these exports. Isabella Lövin will be happy to come back with this. What will the government do to make it more profitable to own the good car, not just to buy it?
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-47	Mr President, I would like to It was absolutely a misinterpretation of Jens Holm when he said that I answered that we will be waiting for three years before we look at this question. No, we'll keep looking at it. However, I must also say that we have just changed the super-environmental bonus system introduced by the Alliance Government, which received 40 000 already on the first day. The figures to which Jens Holm and Rickard Nordin refer derive from that system, which made it possible to export already day one with 40 000 SEK's discount on the pocket. Now we've changed that system. Now it is six months before you receive the first payment. Since the first payment was made in January, a few weeks ago, it is not possible to evaluate how this system has changed the incentives. 80% of these exports are carried out by leasing companies, and leasing companies usually lease out the new cars for three years. We don't know what's going to happen in 2021. The electric car industry itself predicts that it will be in the same price range as fossil cars on the new car market. We are now expanding the charging infrastructure for electric cars and biogas cars through the Climate Centre, which has meant a complete explosion of new charging points across Sweden. Jämtland and Östergötland are among the most expensive counties in Sweden. I predict that the second-hand market in Sweden will be much hotter in 2021 than it is today. It's about to change very quickly. In Norway, the second-hand market is hot today, as there are already very strong subsidies in Norway. In the EU today, we are the country with the highest proportion of electric cars and charging hybrids. It is still a very low level, about 5 percent, but we are moving up very quickly. Today we have 7 162 charging stations and 180 gas filling stations. Through the Climate Tree we continue to expand this. I would also like to say to Rickard Nordin that we have a joint agreement to review the bonus – the Malus system to make it more effective and sharpen it further. I take this as a starting point because we will also look at the major problem we have today with the export of our environmental cars. Of course, it is something that is not desirable, but I am quite confident. In the long term, in a few years' time, when the whole European car market has changed, there will also be a secondary market in Sweden to level this out. What do I want to do further for different types of incentives for environmental cars? Yes, the government is open to doing what we can to achieve the target of reducing emissions in the transport sector by 70% by 2030. We need to do a lot for that. During these three years, the government will implement a very ambitious 73-point programme with very large parts dealing with the environment and climate. We will do more by adopting a climate action programme for the government in September this year.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-56	Mr President, I would like to We in the Left Party are behind the new bonus – the Malus system. We think it is a major step forward. This also means that taxpayers do not fund new car purchases, but it is done, as it were, in the car industry itself. That's absolutely right. We are also fully behind the climate challenge. It is absolutely right to develop, with state aid, e.g. charging infrastructure for electric cars. But the preliminary figures for 2018 worry me. They show a continued increase in the drainage of Swedish electric cars and biogas cars. They continue to disappear across our borders. Something needs to be done here. I do not think it would be too difficult to adjust a little for example in the bonus – the Malus system, as we mentioned, so that you can get a bonus even after a few years. That would be a clear incentive to keep the car. Mr President, I would like to What I have not received an answer to, even though I have asked twice, is whether the government has fought within the EU in order for us to be able to legislate against the drainage of electric cars and biogas cars from Sweden. This could be done through a regular ban on cancellation and sales abroad, because it is cars financed under a state aid scheme, or simply by withdrawing the bonus if the car is unregistered and sold abroad. Some form of regulation is required if we are to do so. I think that would be a very easy way to get to the biggest cheaters in this system. These are companies – rental and leasing companies. Have you fought in the EU? If not, do it, because this has to be stopped! The environmental cars must remain in Sweden.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-60	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jens Holm! The answer to your question is that we have just introduced a new system – the Malus system. We investigated what was the best way to give incentives to environmental cars but also to make it more expensive to own the bad cars that emit the most. It is a self-financing system, just as Jens Holm says. The revenue from the higher tax on the most polluting cars finances the bonus. There is also a long-term incentive to own an environmental car with a much lower vehicle tax. It is also a response to why I believe that the demand for electric cars and environmental cars will increase further in the secondary market. When we prepared the bonus – malus have the Ministry of the Environment and the government carefully prepared and look at the rules and laws for how best to do this in an effective way. During this process, they note that we have an open internal market in the European Union and that cars are such goods that are traded freely across borders within the European Union. I am prepared to continue looking very carefully at the issue. If it turns out that the exports continue so that our bonus money disappears elsewhere and does not benefit the Swedish market – and this applies to 80% of the leasing companies – I want to look at how to differentiate a bonus so that the drain does not continue.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-63	Mr President, I would like to Ingemar Kihlström has asked me what measures I intend to take to put certain vanecriminellas in prison. The accident in Dalarna, which Ingemar Kihlström raises in his question, is a tremendous tragedy. Society must react vigorously and in time to prevent something similar from happening again. The government takes a serious view of the recurrence of crime. It is important that the person who commits several crimes receives a penalty proportionate to the seriousness of crime. The government therefore carried out a reform during the last parliamentary term, which means that more acts will be treated as relapses and thus met with stricter penalties. The possibility of including further offences in a previous sanction has been limited. Now the court has to impose a new penalty in the event of a relapse. With regard to the choice of sentence, a recurrence of a crime is something that the court should consider as a reason for imprisonment. However, due to the seriousness of crime, among other things, other sanctions, such as probation, may be sufficient intervention and even more appropriate than a prison sentence to prevent continued crime. It is therefore necessary to have legislation which allows sanctions to be imposed in a balanced manner. In particular, in the case of habitual and repeated traffic offences, these are clearly a legal offence and often a major traffic hazard. The government therefore considers it very urgent to prevent the recurrence of traffic offences. It is a matter both of law enforcement and of saving lives in traffic. Therefore, in August 2018, I commissioned an investigator to review how criminal law protection against repeated traffic crime can be strengthened. The investigator's mission includes reviewing the scale of penalties for certain traffic offences. Sharpened scales of penalties would allow for higher penalties for relapses, for example. For serious illegal driving and drunk driving, it is proposed to tighten the maximum sentence to one year's imprisonment. Then anyone guilty of these crimes will be able to be detained already in connection with a police intervention. The investigation will also look at whether a new, collected crime should be introduced that hits the person who repeatedly commits traffic offences. Such a penalty could be more forceful than current regulation and could counteract acts which, in a repeated and systematic manner, pose serious risks to road safety. For such a crime, we can also consider a scale of penalties that is better suited to the seriousness of crime and which means more severe penalties than at present. The assignment will be reported at the end of summer 2019. After the usual preparation, I will return to Parliament on these issues. In addition to strengthening criminal protection, it is also important to work to prevent relapse once a criminal has been convicted. The government is currently working on a bill that provides the Prison Service with more tools than today to work with relapse prevention. The idea is that the proposal should lead to a reduction of relapses in crime at large. Finally, I would also like to stress the importance of effective crime prevention police work. One of the government's priorities is to strengthen police work and to enable more police officers to fight crime and increase security for all. The major investment made at the Police Authority is central to this work.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-73	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and Migration for the answer to the interpellation. I also share the description in the answer. The accident in Dalarna is a tremendous tragedy. A 14-year-old girl on the way home gets hit by a car and dies of the injuries. The driver leaves the scene without looking at what happened to the driver. Descriptions from the accident show that the hit was very violent. One wonders: How could such an accident happen? When this happens, we must also ask ourselves: why did the judiciary not intervene harder and earlier? The police investigation shows that the driver involved was a known recidivist, convicted several times. In this case, he drove the accident car and then left the scene of the accident. In the last sentence before this incident, he avoided prison and penitentiary because he wanted to deal with his problems. He was sentenced to probation with alcohol cessation treatment despite the fact that his record contains a long series of crimes for several years. In this case, the perpetrator was sentenced to two years and six months in prison for, among other things, causing another person's death. Mr President, I would like to On the basis of current practice, the penalty should be at the level of three years of imprisonment in cases such as these. This case highlights the question of whether the actual penalty should not be higher. In my view, a crime like this should be in a higher range of penalties. It can also be noted that the current system of automatic parole after two thirds of the sentence period means that the recidivist from Dalarna will be a free man in November next year. I believe that crimes and sanctions are incongruent with the general sense of law. Is it reasonable for a driver who kills an innocent person at great speed with his car, deviates from the scene and then stays away for several days to receive a detention sentence of two years and six months? He will also be released after two thirds of that sentence. I believe that the scale of penalties should be changed so that the penalty is higher to show that society is serious about crimes where gross negligence in traffic leads to the death of other people. I also believe that we in the Swedish Parliament should take steps to ensure that repeat offenders receive higher penalties. The discount model for crime numbers two, three and four that is a fact in today's judgments needs to be changed. Consideration should be given to adding the penalty value to a greater extent in situations where multiple offences are carried out at the same time. Relapse offenders should serve a time in prison that fully corresponds to the penalty value of the new offence or offences for which they have been convicted. The Minister of Justice states in the interpellation response that an investigation is under way to review how criminal law protection against repeated traffic crime can be strengthened. The mission also includes, according to the response, a review of the scale of penalties for certain traffic offences. I wonder: does it also include a review of the penalties for serious traffic offences? I would also be grateful for further information on the mission and the timetable for the investigation into traffic offences mentioned. I would like to ask Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson: Is the Minister of Justice prepared to increase the level of penalties for serious traffic offences? What does the Minister of Justice think about the proposal that recidivists should serve a time in prison that corresponds entirely to the crime or offences for which they have been convicted? My question is also: what is part of the mission for the investigation that began in August?
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-81	Mr President, I would like to The starting point for the interpellation is a terrible tragic accident. The 14-year-old girl who had this accident never gets her life back. It's irreversible. We legislators cannot give anyone back their lives. However, we can do all we can to try to ensure that this is not repeated, and we can take steps that allow us to stop such behaviour in an individual at best when we see that it is about to have such tragic consequences. In this particular case, the judgment has been appealed. It was appealed yesterday. The prosecutor wants to go forward with a harsher punishment than in the original sentence. The defendant wants to be exonerated. I cannot and will not go into the individual case. However, on a general level I can of course have a reflection on the order that we have. I am, surely like Ingemar Kihlström, damn tired of a order that allows people to continue to behave in this way year after year. They drive drunk, they drive without a driver's license and they commit crimes after crimes without anyone intervening in the end and without us having sufficient criminal law opportunities to intervene. That is totally unacceptable, because we know that in the wrong hands a car simply becomes a murder weapon. This crime must be stopped in time before it has such tragic consequences. That is why I initiated the revision of the legislation last year. The focus on this is that we should have higher scales of penalties for traffic offences. Then you look across the board, no matter what the crime we're talking about. Today, the scale of penalties is so low that you cannot even arrest and detain a person who is engaged in illegal driving, that is to say driving without a driving licence or suspected of drunk driving. The maximum sentence must then be one year in prison, and it is not today. We must therefore have a higher scale of penalties for this type of crime so that we can make early intervention. As we write in the directive, we must also have particularly high scales of penalties for those who repeatedly relapse into traffic offences. We will see what the investigator lands in, but we are thinking of some sort of solution which involves judging by a specific scale of penalties, which is considerably higher than it is today, in the case of people who repeatedly commit these crimes. This is what we're gonna do. We will have the report at the end of the summer. After that, there will be a regular consultation period, and I then imagine a legal tightening up next year. I am keen to have a good cooperation in Parliament so that we land correctly on this issue, and I am sure I will also want to keep Ingemar Kihlström informed of how the process is done. We probably share the basic view at this point: we cannot interfere with these cases, and we are therefore prepared to tighten up the legislation.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-89	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for developing answers from Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson! The police investigation revealed that the driver we're talking about was convicted of violent and drunk driving. He was then sentenced to probation. In this case social services had a model where they gave him a cell phone with wind instruments to log his sobriety. Turns out, during the police investigation, the police couldn't get the log out. There is therefore no way to follow this up in the police investigation, where it should be justified, on the basis of the fact that the social services refused to release the log. I think that the current system should be reviewed so that, when justified in connection with police investigations, the police could take note of the social services log. We note that in this case this applies to a person who lacks a driving licence and who has a problem with substance abuse. Nevertheless, he is the owner of over thirty cars. I know that steps have been taken to tackle the problem of car targets, but I still think we need to tighten up our activities. I want to follow it up a little bit. The answer states that a reform was introduced during the last parliamentary term, which meant that more acts would be treated as relapses and met with more severe penalties. I therefore have a few questions for Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson: Does the Minister of Justice share my opinion that the laws should be adjusted so that the police can get out logs from, for example, sobriety tests you? Does the Minister of Justice believe that the legislation against car keepers is sufficient in the light of the fact that, as an addict without a driving licence, 32 cars can be owned? And does the Minister think that the reform in the last parliamentary term mentioned in the interpellation response to increased penalties in case of relapse has reached its goal and is according to the level set by the government?
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-94	Mr President, I would like to It's actually the first time I've come across the question of the police and the data in the Social Services Log. But I'd like to take it back with me to see what the rules look like. It is, of course, a matter of confidentiality between the social services and the police. I have to say that it seems very strange if the order is in this way, but it can simply be fixed. In the case of car goalkeepers, we made a change during the last parliamentary term that made it easier to seize cars written on car goalkeepers. These are, for example, large amounts of accrued parking tickets for cars on the streets. The change means that thousands of goaltender cars have been towed off the streets and scrapped in the big cities. This legislation is now in place. At the Ministry of Industry, there is also a special review of the regulation of car registration. The focus is that there must be a system where we can set a ceiling for how many cars may be written on one person. In this case, the person did not even have a driving licence, which gives a particular dimension to the whole. The process of car registration therefore takes place at the Ministry of Industry, where Tomas Eneroth is responsible. We will be able to deliver proposals on this during the period. On the broader issue of the recurrence of crime – and now we are talking not only about traffic offences but about the recurrence of offences as a whole – there is also a review. It is precisely about how to view what is popularly called a penalty discount in these cases. We also want to move in a sharper direction here. There is a special review of the issue, but this is not just about traffic offences. Ingemar Kihlström was also on parole, that is to say that once you are in prison you will have the possibility of parole during the last third of the time in order to be able to re-integrate into society. I think that is basically a pretty good model, as the vast majority of countries have. There are many countries that have mid-term release, but we have custom of quite a number of years back the release of two-thirds. However, I would like to tighten up the rules and conditions for those who are released on parole. I want to make it possible to perform more drug tests during the period of parole. I would like to make it possible to monitor these individuals with anklets if necessary in specific cases. I would also like to extend the possibility of confiscating the conditional release if the persons were to commit crimes during the period of their parole. There is a special investigation that has reviewed this, and we will first go to the Law Council and then to the Riksdag during the spring with this in order to tighten the requirements for those who are on parole. Finally, with regard to traffic offences, I look forward to receiving the report at the end of the summer. It is Anne Rapp, who is the Court of Appeal in Western Sweden, who is conducting the investigation, and I am sure that she will land in a way that will make us substantially tighten our view on this type of crime.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-101	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answers from the Minister for Justice and Migration. I also find that we have a broad consensus on the basic issue: we will find a model in which we both improve the follow-up of crime and prevent new crimes from occurring. The incident in Dalarna reminds us in my view that there are reasons for improvement and that there are things that can be strengthened. I am glad that we have a consensus on this. I would like to find a common way forward in which we have strong measures to combat repeat offenders and strong efforts as an appropriate level of punishment to curb both ordinary and more serious traffic offences. It is also a question of finding active and effective measures to combat car targets. It is true that I see a need to tighten the level of penalties as well, and I would also like to review how we deal with the principles of recidivism and the time they should have in prison, but I would nevertheless like to thank you for the answer and look forward to presenting the investigations. There are a large number of investigations under way, and it will be interesting to see the content.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-103	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ingemar Kihlström, for the debate. I think it is clear that we have a common view on the direction in which we should go. There are a number of processes now under way. As I said earlier, in a few weeks' time, the legislative referral on the strengthening of the supervision of those who are on parole, including increased opportunities for drug testing, confiscation of the conditional release and monitoring with the ankle buoy, will already be received. So it'll be here in a few weeks. By the end of the summer, the results of the review of traffic offences will also be in a sharper direction. Then there is the car goalkeeper's question, where we have done a lot to get rid of the goalkeeper cars that are part of an organized crime that is deeply difficult in many ways. It is a question of taking further steps to get away from this type of activity. I would also like to add that, for this to work fundamentally, a strong police presence and strong resources are also needed in the police so that they are able to do the supervision and the investigation itself. We are expanding police operations with 10,000 more employees by 2024. In this year alone, some 1,500 new police officers are coming out of police training. It is important to ensure that this reinforcement is granted to the whole country and that it is possible to strengthen its activities precisely in the field of combating traffic offences. This is an issue that I think we can work with, and I am keen to keep Parliament informed of how things are going in this process.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-107	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman has asked me what I and the government intend to do in the coming time to reduce the processing times at Lantmäteriet significantly. Lars Beckman has also asked me if I am prepared to take any steps to give municipalities the opportunity to solve today's problems themselves with municipal surveying. As Lars Beckman notes, the Lantmäteriet's report The overall property development business shows that there is a great variety of processing times for the country's surveying authorities. Lantmäteriet also states that this means that the service for citizens, companies and authorities is different in different parts of the country. Both I and the government believe that this, together with the long processing times of some surveying authorities, is a serious problem for housing construction and for many other parts of society. The government has therefore given Lantmäteriet a number of assignments to overcome the problems. The Government has strengthened Lantmäteriet's management by appointing four new Board members, including a new Chairman of the Board. In addition, a new Director-General was appointed just over a year ago. Among other things, Lantmäteriet has been commissioned to report how the agency works to attract, hire and develop personnel that are necessary for the operations, including an analysis of how the agency develops the operations to achieve this. The Government has also commissioned Lantmäteriet to report on the measures the agency intends to take to reduce processing times and how matters can be prioritised according to the diverse needs of society. In addition, Lantmäteriet has been tasked with developing and implementing a new monitoring model and presenting, analysing and evaluating key figures. The key indicators are a starting point for measuring the impact of various measures and, where necessary, for prioritising and taking further action. This creates the conditions for a new way to plan and manage the property development business. Work on the introduction of the new follow-up model and its results will be sub-reported in April 2019 and then continuously in the Authority's annual report. Further action should await the results of this work. As regards Lars Beckman's second question, the corresponding questions from Mr Beckman have been answered in Parliament on several occasions. It has then been explained, among other things, how an application for municipal surveying authority is handled and that the examination of such an application is done on a legal basis. During 2017, the Government commissioned Statskontoret to evaluate how the organisation of property formation in a state and a number of municipal land surveying authorities works based on the requirements for a uniform, legally secure and effective property formation. Statskontoret states in its report Shared responsibility for property formation that the shared management contributes, among other things, to the lock-in of resources and competition for personnel, and that the lack of surveyors has made the problem more evident. Statskontoret concludes that this is one of the reasons for the problem of long processing times by surveying authorities. I share Statskontoret's assessment. In the report from Lantmäteriet referred to by Lars Beckman, it is clear that long processing times are not a problem limited solely to the state surveying authority but that this problem also occurs in a number of municipal surveying authorities. Against this background, it seems highly doubtful that processing times could be reduced by making it easier for individual municipalities to set up their own national surveying authorities. I am therefore not prepared to take any such structural measures.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-114	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am not sure that all those who are now waiting to get help from the state will feel that the answer helps them along the way, but what do I know? Mr President, I would like to There is an important social contract between the state and society and the citizens. One should expect crimes to be cleared up if they occur. One should expect such a simple thing as that the E4 is workable when it snows. You should expect to receive medical care if you are ill. You should expect your parents to be cared for in the care of the elderly. And, Mr President, one should expect the state to deliver such a simple thing as building a building if one wants to build. That's what this interpellation is about. The average times today are very high. On average, it took 63 weeks from the application to an administrative decision on building construction in the first half of 2018. It is over a year, Mr President. It is clear that concrete measures will then be needed. It takes concrete, resolute action from the government to break this pattern. I have visited many municipalities who experience a strong frustration that the state does not deliver according to its social contract. You have entrepreneurs who want to expand. There are entrepreneurs who want to expand their business. You have entrepreneurs who want to create jobs in Ljusdal, but they cannot do so because the state does not deliver according to its social contract. People want to build houses. The government's not delivering. It's over a year's wait for such a simple thing as real estate formation. I'm sure changing the chairman of the board will help. I'm sure strengthening the board will help. But what I wish the Government would have talked about, and perhaps it will come in the next speech, is what can be done with today's new technology. How can opening geodata help in these processes? How can digital processes in the IT nation Sweden 2019 be faster and more helpful? I have noted that the government is writing that there will be information about open geodata. This was written in the 2017 budget and in the 2018 budget, but it is probably appropriate now that the Government tells us where you are going. There are other concrete regulatory simplifications that can be made. I have asked a written question which the Government is certainly in the process of answering and which relates to participation rates in road transport associations. It is a relatively simple thing that the government could do and that would make things easier for Lantmäteriet too. Mr President, I would like to It's about the community contract. This is about the role of the state in housing construction. I noted that in an interpellation debate earlier this week, the Government felt that the housing crisis was excessive. I am not sure that all those around Sweden who are trying to get a home share the Government's view that the housing crisis is excessive. This is an important part of getting the construction of housing going in Sweden. It is an important part that companies in my home county, Gävleborg, should also be able to expand their operations without having to wait a year for such a relatively simple thing as a property formation.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-122	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is important that we stick to the right facts. 63 weeks doesn't add up. The time involved is 53 weeks. That is not to say that it would be a final goal or that it is a good one. We still think it is too long. But right should be right. There is also a danger in trying to simplify important government decisions. When you say that building is a simple thing, it sounds like it is possible to tear off on a coffee break or similar. That is to give an incorrect picture of an important case management. It can be very large amounts of money and important activities. We must respect the fact that it is an important administration and ensure that it works and is legally secure, functional and effective. As I said in my reply, we think that more needs to be done to shorten the processing times. With the structure we have in Sweden, the authorities are primarily responsible for their operations. We have self-governing authorities who have great responsibility for organising their own activities. What we are doing is giving clear directives to the authorities to work even more intensively to try to shorten the processing times. We have already taken a number of different measures and will continue to work on this issue. In a regulatory letter, we have commissioned the agency to report the work on the supply of skills, which of course is important. If you do not have the right administrator with the right skills, it is difficult to carry out good surveying activities. As early as January 2017, we also commissioned the Agency to report measures to shorten processing times. At that time, we had the objective of reducing the duration of proceedings from 47 to a maximum of 40 weeks. As I said, we have ensured that Lantmäteriet has a renewed board. It is important to have a management that is able to prioritise and manage the business in a good way. Of course, the Board and the Chairman have an important role to play in this. In addition, we have appointed a new Director-General. It also requires a management that is able to organise the business well. We have now commissioned Statskontoret to evaluate the organisation of property formation. We have now received a basis that we can use to evaluate how to proceed with this work. In December 2017, we also commissioned in a regulatory letter to report data for the overall property development business, precisely in order to get even better data in the future. We have now commissioned Lantmäteriet to develop a goal for key figures and to work with developing better opportunities for measuring operations, so that we have the opportunity to prioritise and make sure that they streamline as much as possible. In the regulation letter for 2018, Lantmäteriet was also commissioned to continuously produce key figures and present current key figures. An interim report will already be published in April 2019. There we will have a better basis for moving forward and seeing what measures can be taken in the future to get an even better operation. I think that Lars Beckman sometimes searches for very simple answers. It's still a complicated business. That is why we need to find long-term answers. Lars Beckman may duck for the issue of education and for ensuring that we have enough competent administrators. I am concerned about how the Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, have dealt with this issue. In the 2018 budget, the government announced a major educational initiative for the construction of the community, which would be stepped up gradually. 14 million already in the first budget would escalate gradually to SEK 112 million. But in the budget presented by the Moderates on the table of the Riksdag, which was passed through with the support of the Swedish Democrats, there is no such escalation. As a result, we do not get the extension of competence needed to manage the processing times in the long term. I think Lars Beckman should tell us why one has prioritised in this way.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-132	Mr President, I would like to The Government talks for four minutes about assignments and the change of board and chairman of the board. But I note that the Government is not talking about open geodata. I note that the Government is not talking about the importance of digital processes. And I note that the Government is not talking about, for example, the concrete change in the rules that would mean changing the percentages of individual roads. It's about concrete things that make a difference. If the Government is left in four years' time – we do not know that; it is a rather uncertain little government – we are likely to stand here and talk about the same things again. That is what we have been doing for the last four years, Mr President. It's been talking and talking. And times have grown longer and longer. No, Mr President, I do not take lightly the formation of real estate – quite the contrary. I began my first speech by saying that the state has an important social contract. The basic functions of society must work. When I say simple property formation, I mean that a property formation is probably easier for the state to conduct than, for example, a police investigation into a murder. Mr President, I would like to The basic social contract must work. I believe that the citizens, who pay one of the world's highest taxes, expect the state not to take years with property formations. For example, if I had to prioritise, I would give priority to resources for these measures instead of giving priority to billions of dollars for adults, healthy people to be free by getting a free year. The basic functions of society must function before one as a government is prepared to spend billions on giving adult people time off in the form of a free year. The social contract must be kept if Sweden is to stick together. I have been out in the municipalities and met angry councillors who say: Many municipalities say that they would like to have their own opportunity for surveying. Statskontoret says that this would lead to competition for staff. And the government obviously agrees. This can, of course, mean that wages are higher, because it is an attractive profession. In a market economy, this in turn could lead to more people taking up the profession. I do not see competition for staff as the most important argument against giving municipalities the opportunity to change and influence their own situation and the situation of the business community. Wages that rise may even be the most effective means of getting more people to enter an important profession. Yes, perhaps that would mean that the fees would be higher. But it might also mean that years of waiting would instead be a month, which would be reasonable. I'd like to get the government's view on open geodata. Can they help here? Does the Government and the Government have a plan for digital processes? There have been passive responses until now. Or is it that the queues will continue to increase and that the state will not deliver its part of the social contract in the next few years? And what, in concrete terms, is what the Government expects will lead to a dramatic reduction in waiting times for building formations?
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-141	Mr President, I would like to It is easy to point out a figure in the budget and say that if you just did so, it would solve the problem. Then I think that Lars Beckman should explain why the Moderates in the budget that they put forward, and which was voted through with the help of the Swedish Democrats, prioritised to reduce the tax especially for those who have high incomes rather than, as I mentioned, prioritising the training of precisely surveyors and civil engineering experts. This could be one way of meeting the demand for skills. We obviously have a challenge to ensure that there are enough people able to handle, whether it is in municipal surveying authorities or in the state surveying authority. An educational effort, as proposed by the previous government but which the Moderates chose not to proceed with, would be part of a solution to such a challenge. There, the Moderates apparently gave a different priority. Lars Beckman is happy to explain why they thought it was a wrong priority to educate those who can get the necessary skills to a large extent. Now Uppsala University will happily at least start with a new education for surveyors: Lantmäteriprogram, juridisk specialization. So we are moving in the right direction. But I'd love to see things go at a faster pace. When it comes to digitising the processes, it is a work that is going on with high intensity. So we will continue to deliver there. Using the new digital tools as efficiently as possible I think will be part of the solution. Work on open geodata is also under way at full speed. There we also have European regulations to follow. So the government will deliver it from outside. I think that Lars Beckman sometimes tends to simplify the debate. For example, municipal surveying activities can be compared with the state. At Lars Beckman it sounds like this would be the solution to the problems. But it is easy to note that it is not the case that municipal activities generally always have shorter processing times than the state surveying authority has. One can easily see in a list that Stockholm, Helsingborg, Uddevalla, Motala, Hässleholm, Landskrona, Haninge, Varberg, Sandviken, Örnsköldsvik and Västerås have longer average processing times than the state surveying authority has. Then you should also remember that there is a huge difference between these authorities. The State Survey Office handles 3,200 cases during the time that Sandviken, for example, deals with 8. There is therefore a huge difference in volume in these cases. I think that Lars Beckman ducks a little bit on an important issue that is just about competence. There's a challenge. This also shows Statskontoret's investigation very clearly. When the activities are divided into many different authorities, there will be competition for staff. It will be difficult to find the skills needed. Examples of the effects are that Lantmäteriet has 56% of all administrators, but they handle 76% of all cases. Could it be possible to ensure that they have more opportunities to recruit the skills they need, I think it could help shorten the processing times? Now I think you should have respect for processes. I think it is good that, before making a decision, you have a good basis. I think Lars Beckman should also have respect for that process. We have commissioned Lantmäteriet to come up with proposals and provide an accounting. In April, when we have a better basis, we have the opportunity to decide on which are the best ways to shorten processing times. One thing we agree on is that the length of proceedings is too long. We also have a common objective: to try to bring them down. I hope that we can work together when we have a better basis for decision making, taking concrete steps to streamline and thus also have an effective urban development process in the future.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-150	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that the Government is talking about taxes. It is this government, the MP-S government, that intends to remove the defence tax from 1 January, according to the January agreement you have. So you should remove the tax for those who earn the most and finance it with a green tax exchange, which according to your minister's colleague in SVT's Agenda is to be financed with shock-raised petrol and fuel taxes for everyone living in the country. Those living in the big cities will have their military taxes removed, and those living in the country will pay. It is an interesting distribution policy. Mr President, I would like to The Government Declaration states that housing construction should be made faster, cheaper and more sustainable. State property formation is, of course, crucial for it to work. I think the Government is showing a disregard for those municipalities that feel that they cannot afford their own situation in the municipality. The state does not deliver according to its social contract. The state creates long waiting periods, which prevent the development of individual municipalities. There is something that separates me and the Government. For example, they talk about competition for staff and they think it is a problem. Perhaps that is even the solution when it comes to getting more people to attend an education with a very important focus – community planning. If the municipalities are given the opportunity, the wages may increase. This may in turn mean that more people choose this important education that makes them participate in building Sweden. Reality always beats rhetoric, Mr President. The reality is that Lantmäteriet has longer processing times than the state on average, and then one should know that the state is not very fast. I think it is good that the Government has now said that he wants to give priority to this issue. I am sure there is every reason to come back to this debate this year if times are not shortened.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-157	Mr President, I would like to It is surely a sign that the arguments begin to run out of steam when, as an interpellant, you move to areas that are very far from the very core issue. Starting to talk about tax policy in general may not help us to find a solution regarding Lantmäteriet's activities and processing times. However, I note that Lars Beckman's description of the tax policy pursued by this government is completely incorrect. We're going to lower the defense tax. We will do this because we have taken great responsibility in a difficult political situation, and that was a demand from the cooperation parties that are now part of the government base – the Center Party and the Liberals. But we have also said that we are going to carry out a tax review where the guiding principle is to reduce the economic gap. In contrast to what it was like during the time of the previous bourgeois government, when the divisions increased very much, we will endeavour to reduce the economic divides. I note that the word social contract has been used extensively in this debate by Lars Beckman. I think it is important to see that the social contract also includes ensuring that the conditions for a well-functioning business – long-term. It is easy to note that training is not possible if there are not enough training places. You can increase your salary as much as you want, but if there are no training places, you cannot choose the education and thus take the career path. In their budget, the Moderates prioritised the ambition of the Red-Green Government: to ensure that we continually expand the number of training places. I think it was an example of not taking responsibility for the social contract. It did not provide the conditions for individuals who would like to go to this career or for the authorities who have the challenge of finding competent staff. I think that was a wrong priority. I hope we can get back to a better priority. But we will also use many other tools. Digitisation and open geodata are a couple of them. We will have a better basis when we allow the authority to deliver proposals. I hope Lars Beckman can be patient enough at least to wait for that basis before he demands action.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-164	Mr President, I would like to Kerstin Lundgren has asked me what initiatives I have taken in the UN, the EU and bilaterally with the Lima Group to increase the pressure on the Maduro regime to stop imprisoning democracy, whether I, like the Lima Group, believe that Maduro is not the legitimate President of Venezuela, and whether I support the call for the ICC to push for investigations in order to achieve justice in possible crimes against humanity. Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether I believe that the elections in Venezuela, held in May 2018, were conducted in a free and fair manner, whether the Swedish Government will decide to recognise Juan Guaidó as Venezuela's legitimate acting President and whether I will act in order for the EU to decide to recognise Juan Guaidó as Venezuela's legitimate acting President. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. The last few weeks have been very tense in Venezuela, and the government, of course, is closely following developments. The crisis follows a long period of instability. The opposition has been kwessed through arrests and severe repression. The National Assembly, democratically elected, has been undermined by the establishment of an alternative Constituent Assembly. The economy is in free fall after many years of mismanagement. Inflation exceeds incomprehensible 1 million per cent. Oil production has collapsed. In addition to the political and economic crisis, there is a tragic humanitarian crisis with a widespread shortage of basic goods and medicines. Malnutrition and infant mortality are elevating. The medical system has collapsed. And up to 3 million people have left the country. It is high time the Venezuelans freely and peacefully decided their future. Sweden has no embassy in Caracas, but follows events closely through the UN, the EU and other partners in the country. Sweden acts primarily through the EU to promote a peaceful solution in Venezuela. In May 2018, the EU adopted Council conclusions on Venezuela, stating that the presidential elections in May lacked any credibility and necessary guarantees for inclusive and democratic elections. In addition, the EU reiterated the need to recognise and respect all democratically elected institutions, in particular the National Assembly. It also called for the release of all political prisoners, the maintenance of human rights and support for the most urgent needs of the population. On 4 February, EU Member States, including Sweden, made a declaration. It stated that the signatory countries support and regard the President of the National Assembly, Juan Guaidó, as the legitimate interim president, who, under the Venezuelan Constitution, now has the task of calling new elections. Sweden's position, based on long-term practice, is that we do not recognise governments but states, applying the principles of international law. In November 2017, the EU adopted sanctions against Venezuela. It was an arms embargo, an embargo on certain equipment that could be used for internal repression, an embargo on certain equipment that could be used by the Venezuelan regime for surveillance, interception, etc., a ban on the provision of certain ancillary services to the embargo, and targeted measures in the form of travel restrictions and freezing. A number of people have also been listed for targeted measures. The EU has also announced the readiness to impose additional sanctions if we do not see steps in the right direction and to increase humanitarian aid to the Venezuelan people. The EU has created an international contact group with the aim of contributing to a peaceful and democratic solution. The group will work on confidence building and look at issues such as political prisoners and humanitarian aid. Together with France, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, the United Kingdom and Germany, Sweden is part of the group. It also includes Bolivia, Costa Rica, Ecuador and Uruguay from the region. The co-chairmen of the Contact Group will travel next week to Caracas to anchor the work of the Liaison Group with relevant national actors. They also have experts with them to examine the conditions and opportunities for the contact group to contribute in both the political and the humanitarian fields. The results of this visit will provide a basis for further discussions including concrete proposals for action within the Contact Group. A new ministerial meeting is planned for the beginning of March. It is essential for the EU to act together for a peaceful solution to the crisis in Venezuela. Mr President, I would like to Sweden, together with the other EU countries, has also worked in various UN fora to bring a political and peaceful solution to the situation in Venezuela, in accordance with international law and the rule of law. In connection with the extraordinary meeting of the UN Security Council on 26 January, the EU8 Group – consisting of current and former EU Council members – made a joint statement on the EU's position on the current situation on a Swedish initiative. Sweden has also raised the issue on several occasions and expressed its concern in talks with the Secretary-General's office and the UN Department for Political Affairs. We are in constant contact with the countries of the Lima Group and are working towards an exchange between the group and the EU. We are very concerned about the political and economic situation and, in particular, the human rights situation. How the ICC chooses to proceed in its investigation is a decision that the ICC prosecutor makes independently. The Government is committed to the independence and integrity of the Court of Justice. Sweden will continue to work forcefully through the EU and the international contact group for a political and peaceful solution to the crisis in Venezuela.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-178	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer to my question, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Venezuela, a country with great opportunities, has a long, tragic history. After the 2015 elections, it was clear that the Venezuelans had decided on a different direction. The opposition against Maduro won, and it was of course a signal to Maduro that the clock ticked. Protests have followed, and we have seen how it has developed in the two years since the coup d'état by Maduro. We have received reports from Human Rights Watch and from OHCHR on crimes against humanity of unprecedented nature in Venezuela. It's about torture and so on. It is good that the government is clear not to acknowledge the so-called elections in 2018 when Maduro extended its so-called presidential term. But for quite a few years now there have been attempts at conversations with Maduro in different constellations. The Vatican was present but gave up because it was not possible to move forward. The interest in conversations seems to have been very small, and the alarm bell has been ringing for a very long time. Mr President, I would like to Canada has acted clearly together with the Lima Group to mark support for other countries affected in South America. We were told by the UNHCR that 5,500 Venezuelans leave Venezuela every day for the surrounding countries. But Maduro doesn't see them. He's closing his eyes. He does not listen but speaks his own language. In fact, we see a new dictator holding the country hostage with the help of his military, unfortunately with the support of Nicaragua, Cuba, Bolivia, China and Russia. The democracy that has existed in Venezuela, as best you can say, has actually been imprisoned. The opposition is in prison. We have reports from the Human Rights Defenders about serious assaults and how to be hunted. Then it is important for a government that wants an offensive for democracy to be clear. It is important that the contact group does not become a lifeline for Maduro to somehow secure calls. It is important to be clear about this. During the year, we have called for clarity from the government. Last year, however, it was pervasive with regard to Mr Maduro and the demand for legitimate representatives, the National Assembly as the only legitimate body, the release of political prisoners and so on. We have also had a discussion about the ICC. Canada has been able to provide ICC support together with the Lima Group, and Sweden should be able to do the same. What we are risking now, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is spreading. We are now hearing about Nicaragua and the protests that are coming, and if we do not act clearly, there is a great risk that we will see a spill-over effect and a further worsening of the conditions in the region.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-186	Mr President, I would like to According to Amnesty International, the Venezuelan government has caused the worst humanitarian crisis in its history, which is not a small achievement in view of Venezuela's history of slavery, war, poverty and so on. The economic and humanitarian consequences of the Maduros regime are neither more nor less than one would expect from applied socialism. Between 2015 and 2017, the regime executed 8,300 extrajudicial executions, and 22 percent of all murders in Venezuela in 2016 were committed by the regime's security forces. The social effects are no less serious. Maternal mortality has increased by 65%, infant mortality by 30%. 87% of the country's population live in poverty. Since 2014, 2.2 million people have chosen to leave the country. Last May, an election was held which was won by the President-in-Office but which has been described as a farce by the domestic opposition and also not accepted by the outside world, including the EU and Sweden. On 23 January, opposition leader Juan Guaidó declared himself acting president of the country. Shortly thereafter, the U.S. government chose to recognize Guaidó's proclamation, and a number of North and South American states soon followed the example of the United States. Shortly thereafter, we submitted this interpellation to convince the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Sweden should also adopt the US line. On 4 February, the EU countries, including Sweden, chose to make it clear that they see Guaidó as their rightful President. In other words, I am completely satisfied with the developments in that part and have no further questions to ask. There is, however, another thing that makes me a little perplexed in this story, and that is how the Social Democrats as a party have put themselves to the resolution voted through in the European Parliament on Thursday 31 January, a resolution which also recognises Guaidó as the interim President of Venezuela and which calls for new elections to be held. The Social Democrats chose to vote against the resolution, with the following justification, according to Jytte Jytte, a Member of the European Parliament: ..................................................... There are other parties in this House who have taken this 'no' vote as a basis for the Social Democrats to secretly support Mrs Maduro in some way. That's absolutely not what I'm saying. I would not argue that way, and I think it is wrong to deliberately misunderstand political opponents in order to gain some kind of point. What makes me a little curious is not Jytte Guteland's argumentation either. Although a large majority of the European Parliament supports the resolution, what the Social Democrats put forward here is not wrong in substance. ( TALMANNEN: Excuse me, but interpellations are to be about the government's duties. Ludvig Aspling's argument is entirely focused on a debate in the European Parliament and how a particular party has stood there, and this is not really the right forum to raise such questions to the Council of State. Since opinions have been made on this matter, the Government may of course comment on it in its reply, but I would nevertheless like to point out that interpellations should be about the government's official duties as a representative of the Swedish Government and not about how the government's party stands in other political assemblies. I should therefore like to ask the interpeller to stick to the subject, namely the performance of the duties of the Prime Minister. ) Mr President, I would like to finish my discussion if I may.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-197	The European Parliament has no competence to take decisions on diplomatic recognition. That is why we think it was a bit stingy for the Social Democrats not to support this resolution, but we understand the reasoning.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-198	Mr President, I would like to The government supports Juan Guaidó. We regard him as the president of the National Assembly and support his efforts to exercise the role of interim president, who, under the Venezuelan Constitution, has the task of calling new elections. Sweden's position, which is based on long-term practice and which I would say is shared by most countries, is that we do not recognise governments but states applying the principles of international law. How the European Parliament sees it can be explained. We agree on the reality statement. We share the same view of what has both been going on and going on in Venezuela and how this country and, above all, its citizens are being affected. There is also broad agreement among EU Member States on the situation in Venezuela and the urgent need for a political and peaceful solution to the crisis. It follows a long period of instability. The opposition has been kwessed by arrests and severe repression, and a large number have been put in prison. There is a widespread humanitarian crisis with a lack of food and medicines. I have already mentioned malnutrition and infant mortality. Of course, we are helping neighbouring countries, including Colombia. We have now also allocated more support for humanitarian operations. Above all, we have worked through the European Union because we know that we are stronger if we can stay together in the European circle and that we can do more to drive progress towards a peaceful and political solution to this. We made it clear on 22 May last year that we did not accept the outcome of the elections that brought Maduro to power, and we believe that it is now high time that the Venezuelan people freely and peacefully decided on the future. We therefore call for free, transparent and credible elections in accordance with international democratic standards and the Venezuelan Constitution. We are also one of twelve countries in the international group. The joint declaration it adopted focused on increased cooperation on humanitarian aid in order to actually achieve it, on not politicising humanitarian aid and on cooperation for democratic elections. This contact group has a balance between different countries, both from Europe and from the region, and we believe that this is an advantage. There may be constructive talks with a wide range of relevant stakeholders. We are in dialogue, and we can act as a balancing bridge builder in the contact group. But before this, we acted proactively in the Security Council on a couple of occasions and then together with the EU community, so we have been active on this issue for a long time. The results now coming from the continued work of the Liaison Group will be the basis for further discussions in the EU community. We have decided on four occasions on sanctions against Venezuela, and we are prepared to continue to do so. So I'm saying it hasn't been rough at all. But there has been a discussion about international law concepts and how to view this. Who is democratically elected and who is not democratically elected, and how does one take the process forward? I believe that we have taken that step now, and now we must invest in the contact group and help it to continue its work.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-208	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is good that it is clear that Guaidó is the one with the democratic mission to ensure that Venezuela has a democratically elected President in accordance with its constitution. We are moving towards elections in Venezuela in 2020 also to the National Assembly, and one need not be too conspiratory to suspect that Maduro is looking forward to another election to the National Assembly of the kind he himself conducted last year. It is therefore important that the contact group does not become yet another long-standing discussion club that does not lead beyond Maduro's ability to retain power and remain in office. This is the kind of discussion that has been going on for quite some time. That is why I and we think it is important that we speak clearly to the Venezuelan leadership and the Venezuelan people about what we see before us. It must not be the case that there is a message from, for example, the Lima group or the OAS, and there is a contact group that short-circuits that type of signal. Even from the Lima Group, there are clear statements, and that includes Canada but also many of the neighbouring states – the states affected by 5 500 people a day fleeing Venezuela. It is important that it becomes a clear signal and that it does not become a protective cover for Maduro so that he can retain power. The latter is a model that has been tried by others. Now Russia is not in the contact group, but I suppose that is the kind of attempt that Mrs Maduro is inspired by. Such attempts have been made elsewhere, and we may perhaps see an al-Assad effect in Venezuela as well. We also know that Europe is divided. There is not really a consensus within the EU. But it is important that the EU does not become a good excuse for Maduro to remain in office. That is why we need to be clear on the part of the European Union and on the Swedish side with an offensive for democracy and not let go of the demand that Maduro should resign. Free elections must be guaranteed, because it is the political crisis that creates the humanitarian crisis – and the humanitarian crisis cannot be resolved without resolving the political crisis. We have already seen that humanitarian aid has been used by the regime to secure the regime's own position. It is the regime and the military that take care of the humanitarian aid that is allowed in, and it is distributed to its people. Humanitarian aid is therefore already politicised, and it is a concern that the UNHCR and others who are acting to support all those suffering from repression in Venezuela are part of the problem. It is therefore important to focus on the political mission and on the political solution, which must involve free and fair elections organised by the only legitimate representative of the National Assembly, Guaidó.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-214	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a strong commitment to this issue and that the government is doing what it can. I do not think we disagree on any point. However, I have a thought about the strongest tool that the outside world has. It is the sanctions imposed on individuals. I do not have the exact number in my head, but if I do not remember completely wrong, it is about twenty or thirty people. I may think that this sounds like a very small number. Venezuela has a pretty big oil company. Although oil production is currently not reaching maximum capacity, there are a number of senior managers in PDVSA who probably still earn their wages in dollars and earn a lot of money. There are probably a number of high-ranking military forces and also other government representatives. What I am thinking about is what the Minister for Foreign Affairs sees as an opportunity to extend sanctions to a much larger number of people.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-217	Mr President, I would like to To Kerstin Lundgren I would like to say that we are doing the same analysis of the situation. At present, I do not feel so concerned that we should not understand what the political mission is right now, namely to ensure that there are free and fair elections. This is indeed the main focus, on which the EU countries also agree. This is also the main focus of the contact group, in all contacts you have with neighbouring countries and other stakeholders. I spoke to Mr Guaidó on the phone and assured myself that that was how he saw his task as well. He stressed several times that this is now the most important task. The contact group now gave Venezuela 90 days, so it is certainly not the case that you just for some sort of fluffy reasoning. At the meeting, the contact group decided to give Guaidó and Venezuela 90 days to explain how to conduct the election procedure. This is very important. The EU has decided on four occasions on sanctions. It is not always a question of a large number of people, but it is a question of finding the right individuals and directing the sanctions properly so that they really have an effect. When we last met in the Foreign Affairs Council, we were all open to deciding on new sanctions if we see that this is not going in the right direction. If we do not have the effects we want from the sanctions imposed, we will soon decide on new ones. It may then be possible to increase the number of individuals or find new areas where sanctions should be imposed. As regards humanitarian aid, as Kerstin Lundgren said, there is always a risk of it being politicised. We have tried to emphasise that this time we must avoid this. An estimated 1 million children do not attend school. The lack of teachers, water, electricity and food makes the number increase enormously. The civil society organisations that usually report on humanitarian access say that Venezuela is one of a total of four countries in their worst category. The country is inaccessible – access is not available. This makes both the need picture difficult to establish precisely and there is little scope for large-scale humanitarian aid. The main obstacle, however, is, as Mrs Kerstin said, the government's unwillingness to receive support and allow humanitarian organisations into the country. That is what we must continue to work on. Last year we contributed SEK 73 million in humanitarian aid. Initially, the plan is to give 45 million to humanitarian needs this year. They are distributed in the same way as in 2018 to operations in Colombia, Venezuela and the rest of the region, where Sida can provide support. In addition, a further EUR 20 million of humanitarian aid is provided to Colombia. These are issues of protection, legal advice and other matters. In Venezuela, these are mainly basic necessities: health care, food and nutrition for children, water and sanitation. That is what it looks like, but the political direction is now, as I see it, to ensure that free and fair elections are held in Venezuela.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-225	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. A clear focus on the political solution is important. How we in the European Union view developments is an important signal, not least because Venezuela is the worst, but there are other countries in the region that take refuge behind Venezuelan leadership. This is, of course, a risk we see. Historically, there's been a lot of conversations. In what way does the EU ensure that the contact group does not become another one in a series of call groups just leading into the corner? It was first given eight days to ensure that elections were held. This was not effective. Maduro is not interested; it has been evident throughout his journey. Now you've got 90 days, but what happens next? What will be the next message from the EU to increase the pressure on Maduro? It is important for Europe to get together. I note that in response to my interpellation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that we are in constant contact with the countries of the Lima Group. It is, of course, an important group to have close contact with. I hope and assume that Sweden will also actively participate in the work of the Lima Group. It is an opportunity to increase the pressure clearly with countries in South America. It is, of course, good to have the voice of the region in this context.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-228	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, we are largely satisfied with how the government is dealing with this issue. I have nothing more to add except to wish the Foreign Minister good luck.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-229	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much. The International Contact Group is a first step towards a political and peaceful solution to the conflict in Venezuela. There are, of course, representatives of another line who believe that you should intervene. It is nevertheless a success for the European Union that this group has been set up. Now we are there as a member and will complete that mission. We should be committed, have broad contacts and make sure that we really work actively. The debriefing from the group I believe will ensure that we avoid it becoming just a conversation group. I think it was strong that time limits could be agreed from the outset. Then we will meet again, and we will ensure that we follow the work and make a very active contribution to it. As we have already said, it is high time that there was a process leading to free and fair elections, that political prisoners could be released, that the opposition could be allowed to operate and, above all, that humanitarian aid could come forward. Many millions of people are now suffering in Venezuela and among all those who have left the country.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-233	Mr President, I would like to Désirée Pethrus has asked me how I view the Open Doors report World Watch List and the work forward to ensure freedom of religion in the world. She has also asked me what measures I think are most important to protect persecuted Christians in the world and how I believe the Ministry for Foreign Affairs can continue to work on this issue. Finally, Mr Pethrus asks me what measures I intend to take to raise the issue of freedom of religion in the European Union. We have seen that discrimination, harassment and violence linked to people's religious and non-religious identities have increased sharply in line with the global decline in human rights, democracy and the rule of law in recent years. This is very worrying, and let me therefore briefly describe what Sweden is doing to reverse developments. In the country reports on human rights, democracy and the rule of law published continuously by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, freedom of religion and belief is a standing heading. A pattern can be seen: In states where restrictions on freedom of religion and belief are made, there is also a tendency that threats, violence and harassment of persons on the grounds of religious affiliation are more common. This gloomy picture is similar to the findings that Open Doors presents in its annual World Watch List report, to which the interpeller refers. Each year, a number of UN member states are examined in the so-called general country review, or UPR as it is shortened, during which Member States make recommendations on human rights. Sweden actively participates in these reviews and has included – and will continue to include – freedom of religion and belief in the recommendations we make. We continuously address freedom of religion bilaterally in our political dialogues in Stockholm and through our foreign authorities as well as in various multilateral forums. Sweden is in constant contact with the leaders of religious communities, including representatives of Christian groups, about their situation. Sweden's ambassador for human rights, democracy and the rule of law continuously pursues freedom of religion and belief with our diplomats around the world. You can follow her work online. Sweden's ambassador to the Holy See is conducting a dialogue with the Vatican on the issue, and the Swedish Dialogue Institute is working with interreligious dialogue with the aim of reducing interreligious conflicts. Our envoy for intercultural and interreligious dialogue is pushing the issue of Christians' enjoyment of human rights and what more we can do to counter the persecution of Christians and other vulnerable religious minorities. The latter now also has a special mission for the fight against anti-Semitism and Islamophobia, as well as for the protection of Christians and other religious minorities in the Middle East and North Africa. As part of Sweden's overall work on religion diplomacy, the government supports interreligious initiatives within the framework of the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations, the Union for the Mediterranean and the Anna Lindh Foundation. The Swedish religious trail in the Cyprus conflict has developed a model in which Christian and Muslim leaders work together to strengthen religious freedom and prevent conflict. This has been very interesting to follow. Sweden is also pressing for the EU to have a strong and united voice to protect freedom of religion and belief. This is done, inter alia, through the EU Special Representative for Human Rights, Mr Stavros Lambrinidis, and the Commission's Special Envoy for Freedom of Religion and Convince, Mr Ján Figel, as well as through the Union's support to civil society. We are an active and strong voice in the Union's work on these issues, and we have stressed, among other things, that the EU should increasingly include freedom of religion and belief in its country reports on human rights. In the Third Committee of the UN General Assembly as well as in the UN Human Rights Council, Sweden is actively working with the EU on the resolution on freedom of religion and belief presented annually by the EU. It is an important principle that also the right to change religion and belief, the freedom not to profess to any religion or belief, and the right to criticize the beliefs or beliefs of others are respected. In this broad way, we intend to continue working on this issue. This is how we make the best contribution to strengthening freedom of religion and belief and protecting minorities, including Christian minorities.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-247	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for your answer. It was a good review of the various functions that work with issues related to religious persecution in Sweden, in the EU and in the UN. That sounds very good. Nevertheless, what I am thinking about after hearing the answer is how often this is raised in the international community. It is one thing to have different functions that have a focus and that should work with the questions. However, I have been following foreign policy for quite some time here in Parliament, and it is very rarely that the issue is included before international conferences as an important issue to raise. There I would like to see a little more of a commitment. Perhaps Sweden and the Minister for Foreign Affairs could contribute in this area. Do we really affect freedom of religion where in many different areas there is no such thing? It is nonexistent in some countries. Can the Minister see any concrete examples? Is there anyone who measures the impact of the stakes from all the different functions available? In my interpellation, I based on Open Door's annual World Watch List report on the 50 countries where the persecution of Christians is at its worst. The development is very clear. Unfortunately, the persecution of Christians is increasing around the world. We know that there are other religions, but I have started from the persecution of Christians because that is what this report refers to. In 73 of the 150 countries it is a high or extremely high level of persecution. Their number was 58 in the previous year. It has thus increased significantly, from 58 to 73 countries. Over 4,000 people are reported to have been killed on the basis of their Christian faith, and every ninth Christian worldwide considers himself persecuted on the basis of his faith. This share has also increased from previous years. So it is a rather frightening development in the area of freedom of religion. The fact that North Korea tops the list of persecution is not news, and that is perhaps not surprising either. However, several countries are going in the wrong direction. For example, with 100 million Christians, China has introduced new laws that prevent children and young people from listening to religious instruction. So you can't have any type of Sunday school or confirmation education. Technological developments mean that we can now get more reports from different people, but they also lead to other things. For example, in China, they want to monitor the parishioners video during church services. Those who do not do this have their churches shut down. We from the Christian Democrats have tried on various occasions to highlight the importance of freedom of religion. The interest from the government has been like that. Foreign declarations have not put this on the agenda. The last declaration said that persecution of religious minorities is unacceptable. I think we should do more. At the embassies, Sweden must be able to work more concretely for human rights and support for individuals who are persecuted. I don't get a real answer to whether the Ministry for Foreign Affairs can improve on these issues so that you have more knowledge out at the embassies and can provide support and influence in the daily work.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-260	Mr President, I would like to Dear Désirée Pethrus : I always think we can get better. Otherwise, I wouldn't be a politician. It must be the case that freedom of religion and belief as a human right should apply to everyone everywhere. It must be an integral part of what we do. Nor is it a coincidence that my entire foreign declaration, as you noticed, was focused on the fact that we must now defend very fundamental values of democracy and respect for human rights. It includes this. I always think we can get better. In fact, I think that our ambassadors and envoys working on these issues have done a fantastic job of also going out to our embassies and making sure to help them with their various activities. But surely we can get even better. When you put it together – as I did here at the beginning when I presented what we do – it's a pretty impressive list. Unfortunately, however, what we have to fight against is that religion has been increasingly politicised. It's a development we're looking at all over the world. Nationalism with religious elements is gaining ground on a broad front in the world. That is why democracy is under threat, and that is why fundamental human rights are also under threat. We are fighting against a force which, unfortunately, is now very powerful and is making ever greater progress. People are persecuted, displaced, and killed for their faith. What we can do, of course, is – as you said, Désirée Pethrus – to raise this even more frequently in international contexts. Sometimes, I can say, we are the only voice talking about this – the only voice that wants to talk about human rights. Now it is a profit interest or self-interest that is increasingly taking over, also in international contexts. This is a very serious development. That's why we need to help each other. I appreciate you reminding me of that. I appreciate you keeping your thumb in our eye too and ensuring that we can always sharpen our efforts. We need more good ideas on how to do this, and, as I said, I think we need to help each other with a democratic offensive that includes the defence of human rights. We have also seen that places of religious ceremonies, such as churches, are being demolished, just as you described, and in many parts of the world, spirits are being destroyed and so forth. We shall continue to act on a broad front to counter restrictions on freedom of religion and belief, and we shall continue to defend the individual's right to choose religion or belief. We will do this by working both internationally and bilaterally in our contacts with other countries and through our foreign authorities. I'm sure there's more good ideas about how the embassies are going to do this. We should not forget to highlight examples such as what we have done in Cyprus. Here, Sweden has been completely instrumental, and it has been noted around the world that we have contributed to an interreligious dialogue. I think that we need much more of that kind of effort in the future.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-271	Madam President, I would like It is positive that the Foreign Minister shows that she has a commitment and that these are important issues that she wants and intends to highlight. That's what we're going to take on board. Swedish organisations have previously worked with educations at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, but I don't know if there is such a thing planned now. It has been about training staff in how different religions work in different countries and how to identify the work and work in the best way in different parts of the world. It would be interesting to know if there are any plans to train foreign service staff on these issues. Last Wednesday, the Foreign Minister preferred the foreign policy declaration in this House. Much of it can be supported by the Christian Democrats, particularly in terms of human rights and democracy. The Foreign Minister also said that she wants to launch an offensive for democracy and bring the parliament as well as other countries into this work. The Foreign Minister also said that the government should prioritise peace and security as well as active diplomacy. If this active diplomacy is to be a support for people who are subjected to religious persecution, special knowledge of the role and importance of religion in the country in question and the impact it has on individuals is required. In what way will this offensive of democracy be able to affect people who are being persecuted because of their faith? Will Foreign Affairs staff be trained, or does the Foreign Minister have any other idea of how this could be combined in this offensive? Sweden's governments tend to point out that the EU is our most important foreign policy arena, and Sweden and the EU have many opportunities to influence events through diplomacy, such as persecution of individuals and groups. In his reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs states that Sweden is an active voice in the Union for these issues and is working to ensure that the EU will increasingly include freedom of religion and belief in its country reports on human rights, which sounds great. How's it going with this? Is something happening at EU level?
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-278	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the good questions, Désirée Pethrus! As far as the country reports are concerned, we have announced that we will shortly be publishing 29 reports concerning European countries in the spring. This is, of course, also the issue. There are also Swedish civil society organisations that work with human rights and democracy and that have a faith-based basis and special competence in terms of freedom of religion and belief. These also play an important role in development cooperation, often with money from Sida combined with own resources, and here we can do even more. I believe that we can make the kind of effort that we have already used and invite the organisations to a dialogue on this very subject. How can they contribute? How do they feel we can strengthen our work? The offensive of democracy must work in exactly this way by opening the doors and by engaging with many different partners to conduct this dialogue. We need to understand the challenges of coexistence, the links between religion and politics in the world and what freedom of religion and belief means. This is central, and so we are investing more in education. Knowledge-enhancing efforts are part of our work internationally. Participation in conferences and awareness initiatives is a priority for the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, also in our internal education. We have also arranged several meetings for diplomats, specialists and civil society on relevant themes. Before travel, visits and major negotiations, we usually meet representatives of the communities in Sweden, and we deepen our knowledge and discuss different situations. The Swedish Missionary Council has also been invited and conducted courses and seminars on freedom of religion, including within the diplomatic programme. This is certainly something we can intensify further, and I see this as an encouragement and as an example of what we need to plan even more than we have done so far.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-285	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply and a good review of everything that is being done, and the Christian Democrats really encourage this in every way. It is important that there should not be different symbolic functions but that there should be concrete and hands-on action and that there should be genuine efforts to bring about a change. What I'm a little behind is how we can measure the effect of what we're doing. What is the most effective way to work? Since religious persecution is increasing despite all efforts, a more global approach to these issues may be needed. The Open Doors report shows that developments are going in the wrong direction, and now we need more concrete measures where we can measure the impact. I don't mind the Secretary of State and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs doing-- that's great-- but I think we need to find more effective measures. We want to guarantee freedom of religion in the world, so I want to see more concrete measures. I hope that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs will be better at finding different instruments and tools for our various missions. I also hope that the Foreign Minister will continue to raise the issue of freedom of religion in the EU and also the UN in order to find effective ways of working on this. Thank you for the answers I have received today.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-290	Madam President, I would like How do you measure success, especially when talking about democracy and human rights? Of course, it can be done in a number of areas. You can look at the number of political prisoners and the number of people who feel persecuted. But we are challenging huge powers, and unfortunately this development is going in the wrong direction. That is why we need to get better at all this, and I take on board what Mrs Pethrus has said. I believe that this will be part of how we work in the future under the concepts of democracy and human rights. It is therefore important to learn from the experience, to read reports such as Open Doors and to think about how we can constantly renew this work. It is about freedom of religion, but also about the need for interreligious dialogue. We must respect each other's opinions. Otherwise, it'll be fanaticism, and that's the most dangerous thing of all. I look forward to cooperation, and a first step may be for the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to invite organisations, parties and members of parliament to a discussion on this. I am thinking this could be a good start to this work.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-294	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me what further steps I intend to take to ensure that pupils with p roblematic absenteeism return to school and receive the education they are entitled to. In addition, she has asked me why the proposal for national follow-up is not included in the proposal. Long and problematic absences have a major negative impact on learning and learning outcomes. This may make further studies more difficult, as well as future participation in working and social life. In the long term, the risks of ill health, crime and exclusion may also increase. Countering absenteeism requires a broad range of actions. The government has therefore taken a number of measures to prevent absenteeism and promote attendance. In the bill Collection for the school(prop. 2017/ 18:182), which the Riksdag has adopted, is clarified, among other things, the rector's responsibility to ensure that repeated or longer absences are investigated. The principal shall also ensure that the absence is reported to the principal as soon as possible. The aim is to quickly catch up with students who are at risk of developing problematic absenteeism and clarify what is behind this absence. In this way, adequate measures can also be put in place early. The proposal also suggested that the municipality of residence should always be informed when an investigation of absence starts. The Government also proposed in the bill that the municipality of residence should coordinate, if necessary, the work of pupils with repeated or longer absences in the compulsory school forms, such as between school, social services, the police and child and youth psychiatry. In addition, the Government has commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education and Social Welfare to jointly carry out a three-year development work aimed at improving collaboration between student health, health care and social services so that children and young people receive early and coordinated efforts. We also know that student health plays an important role in promoting attendance. In order to strengthen pupil health, the Government has decided on a state grant for staff enhancements in pupil health, and the Swedish National Agency for Education has been tasked with carrying out efforts to improve the prevention and promotion of pupil health. In addition, the Government has commissioned a special investigator to, among other things, map and analyse the school's support and pupil health work and make proposals with a view to creating better conditions for pupils to reach the minimum knowledge requirements to be achieved. With regard to Maria Stockhaus' second question, the investigation did not submit a legislative proposal that needs to be dealt with in a bill without an assessment that the Government should instruct the Swedish National Agency for Education to collect and report national statistics on absenteeism. The assessment is subject to further consideration within the Government Office but is thus not dealt with in a proposal to the Swedish Parliament. As can be seen, the government has taken a number of measures to promote attendance and prevent absenteeism. If it turns out that these measures are not sufficient, I am prepared to consider further measures.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-301	Madam President, I would like I think we are both concerned about the large number of children and young people absent from school. TV4's Cold Facts took the help of SCB when they made their program about home sitting. According to their calculations, there are about 5 500 students who are so-called home sitters – students with long-term absences from school. The fact that the word homesitter even exists as a concept in school seems to me to be a great betrayal of students who should be in school and acquire the knowledge they need for the rest of their lives. The Moderates in the Social Affairs Committee recently visited a Sis institution and talked, among other things, to a young guy who was stuck in the criminal world and was now locked up. One of his comments was, ‘ Why did no one react when I started to skip school? ' It's often where it starts, with a few hours of truancy that then grows more and more. The reasons why students are not in school are many, but it will be very difficult to help them if the school does not follow up on what has happened. A lost schooling is a tragedy for the individual but also leads to great costs for society. Economics Ingvar Nilsson has reviewed Kalla facts and believes that the home-sitting children can ultimately cost society between 20 and 30 billion, if you expect that they do not enter the labour market as others in society do. In his reply, the Minister for Education radars the government's measures to combat absenteeism, but they are not sufficient. The question is why not implement all the excellent proposals that exist in the investigation Missing! and which have generally been welcomed by the consultation bodies. Of a very nice mitten, there's barely one thumbmethott left. It is good that the principals are given greater responsibility to follow up longer and repeated absences and report to the principals, but that is not enough. In December, representatives of SKL and the National Association of Free Schools, among other things, wrote a debate article that addressed the importance of monitoring the statistics on absenteeism at national level. An important argument for this is that it is possible to identify principals who are successful in bringing down absenteeism and that these examples can then be disseminated more easily. The fact that national statistics are the subject of further consideration at the Government Office is, in fact, incomprehensible to me. The Government says in its reply that the Government is prepared to take further action against absenteeism if necessary, but how should the Government know if the measures put in place will have any effect if there are no national statistics? It will then be impossible to say whether the efforts are sufficient and thus impossible to assess whether the government needs to take further action. I still wonder: Why can the National Agency for Education not now be commissioned to produce national statistics?
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-309	Madam President, I would like I share my colleague Maria Stockhaus' concern about the home-sitting children. Unfortunately, that is a large number; we are talking about 5 500, but the number is probably much larger. We are very concerned about those children who are not in school and who miss school education and social gatherings at school. We are also very concerned that we are not doing enough. The Minister spoke of many proposals that exist, but we do not think that is enough. Unfortunately, the number is increasing. We believe it is important that teachers, even during teacher training, know about the various diagnoses that may exist, where neuropsychiatric diagnoses may be considered. But there are many other problematic conditions, so you can't say that's just why children aren't in school. Teaching about this is important when teachers attend education but also that there are special educators at school who can early see the problems. Already after the first hour of invalid absence you should start looking at why and intervene quickly. As my colleague Maria Stockhaus said, some young people wonder why nobody saw it before and why it had to go so far. Unfortunately, when a long time has passed, it is difficult to return to school. I would like to stress that we look at this with concern and that more efforts need to be made. It feels like we're shooting the problems at the future, but then the number of children increases.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-312	Madam President, I would like Thank you, both Members, for helping to draw attention to this important problem! I would like to start my first post with a reminder. Responsibility for results and quality in Swedish school and to follow up and fix problems with absenteeism, whether they appear early or late, rests on what we call the principal. It is a municipality or an independent school that is responsible for ensuring that results and quality are of a high level in the Swedish school. The state has an important task. The state should help to ensure that this can really happen, but a reminder is appropriate that the main responsibility lies with the so-called principals. We fully agree that the principals need support in this important work. We also fully agree that teachers, principals and student health care need support. In my reply, I listed a wide range of support measures that have come from the government. Many of these, I would add, have strong support in the Swedish Parliament. The bill to which I referred, Collection for School, has been adopted by the Parliament and has therefore been supported by, among others, the Members who are asking questions today. Maria Stockhaus pointed out the enormous costs that can arise in society if we do not fix the absence from school and ensure that not only do all students come to school but also learn as much as they should when they get there. I can really sign this. These are huge social costs. At the same time, I think we agree that every child who falls between the chairs and does not get the support he or she needs in order to complete his or her schooling is a child too much. We also agree that however high these costs are, not everything can be measured in money. We are also talking about a great many children and students who have an unhappy childhood and a very strained life because of difficulties in passing school. It's difficult even for their parents. All of this leads to an important task of promoting presence and combating absenteeism. It is an important task for society as a whole. This task the government wants to do everything in its power to support. A long catalogue of support measures is therefore proposed. In this context, I would also like to problematise a little on the second question by Maria Stockhaus, which concerns why the government has not given a mission to the National Board of Education to collect national statistics in this area. I myself am very fond of statistics. In general, I think that in our school debate we sometimes look too little at large follow-ups and too much at anecdotes and our own experiences. Good statistics are essential to the development of schools. However, in every situation, the need for statistics must of course be weighed against the need to invest the sometimes relatively scarce resources in measures to ensure that fine legislation can become a reality. I will therefore always be very careful to examine proposals for new statistics. I know that any statistical collection can have very good effects and can provide very good input for future decisions. But it also has a back-up in the form of costs for the principals, teachers and principals. Not a day goes by without me meeting a teacher who complains about too much administration, and administration is often the reverse of high statistical ambitions.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-319	Madam President, I would like The principal's responsibility for this is, of course, very great. Unfortunately, however, there are no demands even for the principals to systematically follow up the absences coming from their schools. A study from the report The school's empty chairs, carried out by Sifo on behalf of the non-profit association Performance Prince, shows that just over 50 per cent of municipalities collect or receive ongoing statistics from primary schools regarding student absences. It's just not good enough. Before I entered the Riksdag, I was a municipal councillor in Sollentuna with responsibility for the school. I am ashamed to say that in my twelve years quite late, properly and comprehensively, we began to follow up on the absences at school. When we received our first report, it was a shock to all of us politicians what it really looked like and how many students in Sollentuna actually weren't in school. And I think most still have a picture that Sollentuna is a pretty well-functioning school municipality. The fact that we got this black and white led us to get to grips with this issue and to make extensive efforts and to demand reporting back on what happened. This work has been regularly followed up every year precisely to ensure that the measures we put in place at school actually also have an effect. Monitoring efforts and ensuring that they have the desired effect is an important part of systematic quality work. And I am quite convinced that if the School Inspectorate reviewed the government's work to promote attendance and reduce absenteeism, it would fail. It is well-proven to make a lot of effort and to bet a lot of money. But it is almost on the verge of irresponsibility if it is not then possible to follow up if these measures have really made a difference. I can understand the desire to be careful about imposing more administrative burdens on schools. But here we have schools that already have an obligation to follow up on their absences. The vast majority of schools have digital systems for that. It is reasonable that the principals who do not do this follow-up at the main level today actually do so. This means that this is a statistics that are actually already available. It is not something you need to have completely new systems to collect. So I still wonder: when does the government intend to ensure that we get national statistics so that we know that the money we spend from the national level makes a difference and so that we can actually also see which municipalities and principals succeed and how we can learn from these examples? As long as there are no national statistics, it is absolutely impossible to make such a comparison.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-326	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank the Minister for the answers she has given here. There are many measures that have been taken, but I do not think they always work because unfortunately the problems are still escalating. I agree that it is the principals of the school who are responsible. However, we also have a responsibility to ensure that it works, but it is clearly not. Of course, it works in different ways in different schools. I also share the view that student health has a great responsibility. It also looks very different when it comes to how student health around the country works. In Gothenburg, for example, there should be a maximum of 500 pupils per nurse and 5,000 per doctor. This is not really the case in any district of Gothenburg. That, of course, is something that we must ensure that it works. It is the municipalities that are responsible for this. But the state must provide the conditions for having a sufficient budget to make it work. The training for teachers is, of course, something that I think we should review. We will continue to do so, so that the teachers are prepared when they come out to school. Many students testify that when they come out on their VFU, they are, unfortunately, quite frightened by the way things look at school. Here I think we have an important role to play in ensuring that teaching for teachers is improved.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-330	Madam President, I would like I would like to oppose some of what is said here from the Parliament's pulpit. We know a lot about what the absence looks like in Sweden. There are other ways to follow it up alongside large and comprehensive national statistics. I would also like to emphasise that the government has not decided whether or not to commission the National Agency for Education to produce such statistics. In my post, I wanted to problematise and show that it is not always the case that the money is best used by putting it into taking in more statistics. Sometimes it can actually be that the money is more useful if it is spent on developing methods and working practically with the children and students who need support to have a higher attendance at school. I would also like to point out the important responsibility of the principal, which is expressed in school law and regulations. It is a question of ensuring, through systematic quality work, that the rules contained in our various governance documents really turn into meat in school everyday life. This responsibility lies with the principal. The principal shall ensure that there is systematic quality work. This responsibility cannot be ignored by the principal. Even the headmaster has a clear responsibility. The Government, with the support of the Riksdag, has clarified the Vice-Chancellor's responsibility not only to report but also to address problematic absences from an early stage. We have done so in the primary school area, but we have also done so in the upper secondary school area. We have done so because we know that early intervention is so crucial. I assume that these are also the insights behind the Riksdag's reasoning when the Riksdag has wisely supported the Government's proposal for a read-write-count guarantee. Here, too, we know that early intervention is crucial. Custodians also have a responsibility. We have compulsory schooling in Sweden. Like I am sure many Members of Parliament, I often receive evidence from guardians of how difficult it is to fulfil this responsibility when schooling does not work. With increasing age, children and students also have a responsibility to help ensure that schooling is as good as possible both for themselves and for their peers. Together, ensuring that the school functions in such a way as to promote attendance is a responsibility for all of us. Madam President, I would like It has been mentioned several times here how important it is that there are resources allocated to this type of activity. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the major resource additions that have been made and continue to be made in relation to our important pupil health. Student health has a very important role to play in this context. There is often a very professional competence. It is competence that we hope will be able to make even more use of in school through the major investments made in specialist teachers and special educators in the major lifting that is going on. But at the end of the day, each headmaster is in a rather tough priority situation. Here I would like to point out the equivalence contribution that the government has been working on following the recommendation of the School Commission to ensure that there are resources for the principals of our schools and that these resources are actually, with the support of the School Act, given in such a way that there are more resources where the needs are greatest. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we agree on the need for action in this area, and I welcome the issues I have been given. I hope that together we will be able to ensure that Sweden's students get a really good schooling, which they deserve.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-339	Madam President, I would like Swedish school is receiving a lot of money now, and it has received it from previous governments as well. I think everyone realizes that more resources are needed in school. At the same time, it is extremely important to monitor how the money is spent, so that we get the exchange from the investments that are actually made. There are evaluations that show that it is not necessarily the money that leads to better results, but that what is needed is to think about how to use the money. So at present we have a government that is not interested in following up the absence statistics, and 50% of the principals are not following up on the situation with the absence. This makes it difficult to know at national or local level whether the efforts made to reduce absenteeism actually have an effect. Prolonged problematic absence can have many causes. Often it's about students who don't get the support they need, and it can also be about bullying. It is very important that the school is now given a clearer responsibility to investigate the causes. It's an important start. However, we Moderates have long demanded that there should be more special pedagogy and more knowledge about pupils with special needs in the regular teacher education. This is lacking to a considerable extent, as the teachers and graduates testify. They are simply not prepared to receive these students in the classrooms. Unfortunately, the government has not taken up the issue, even though we have raised it a number of times and asked questions about it. My question to the Government is therefore: Why does the government not want to ensure that teachers in their basic education have the right skills to meet these students? Because they are the ones who end up sitting at home when they do not get the support they need. Teachers must have the right skills.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-343	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank Maria Stockhaus for the question. The final question in Maria Stockhaus's speech deals with an area for which my colleague Matilda Ernkrans is responsible, but I would like to refer once again to the great effort that the government is making on a special education lift for teachers in the Swedish school. We fully agree that we need the skills of specialist teachers and educators. Madam President, I would like When I listen to this debate, I recall the first time I visited a Finnish school. We carried out a thorough review of the successful Finnish system, which ensures that children and pupils in need of early intervention also receive them. We began, as always, by comparing the various regulations, and I quickly noted that the great differences did not lie in what legislative requirements were imposed on teachers and principals of the system. Instead, the big difference was in how work was done in everyday life. The Swedish school's results depend on the work done by teachers and principals, and we as politicians have a responsibility to rake the manage and ensure that they get the best possible conditions. I want to put my strength into ensuring that teachers and principals actually have the tools they need and that they have the ability to use them rather than constantly sharpening the tools.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-347	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me how a ban on mobile phones at national level helps to increase trust in teachers' professional abilities. The January agreement, which the government is behind, includes several different measures to create studies. A positive school environment characterised by security, study and trusting relationships is a prerequisite for students to achieve good school outcomes. Experiences of the opposite have a negative impact on students' equal opportunities to learn and develop in school. A work environment characterised by security and study also promotes the attractiveness of the teaching profession. When it comes to mobile phones in the classroom, the government wants to make it easier for teachers by turning the perspective around. The starting point should be that students' mobile phones should not be in the classroom, rather than the other way around. However, teachers should be free to decide whether mobile phones are to be used at different times, with specific purposes, when it is suitable for teaching. I have great confidence in the professional abilities of the teachers. With a revised mobile phone regime, the government intends to promote studies and a good working environment for teachers as well as show respect for the profession's important tasks with all children's and pupils' learning and development. The design of such a scheme must of course be analysed in more detail.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-351	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The legislation we have today provides teachers and principals with important tools for creating security and learning at school. Today there is the opportunity to take care of mobile phones that interfere, and there is the opportunity for schools to collect mobile phones at the beginning of a lesson and return them when the lesson is over. The International English School has a mobile ban during school hours; students can lock up their mobiles during school hours. All of this is already possible today. We all agree that the teaching profession needs to become more attractive, and many more measures are needed for this to succeed. Wages are an important issue, but work environment is also a factor that many teachers state as a reason to leave the profession. This is also a reason why students leave teacher education or do not choose to attend it at all. There are also many teachers who address the lack of trust in the profession as part of the work environment. It's about missions, projects and detail control at different levels completely hailing over the school. There is no problem that the school should not take care of or solve. All this detailing signals very clearly that we do not trust the profession. We do not trust principals and teachers and their ability to create a good school environment that gives students the education they are entitled to. Now I'm taking up my municipal experience again, but it's actually quite valuable when you get into Parliament and you're going to do school issues. I had a pretty amazing trip where we changed the whole school governance. We cleared away all goals and projects, set three clear goals for the school and gave the principals and teachers full control of how they work to achieve the goals. Of course, we followed up on how things went – it goes without saying, because otherwise we do not know if they will succeed in their mission. As a result, sick leave rates went down, teachers stayed in the municipality and, in fact, teachers returned even though they got a job in another municipality, perhaps with a higher salary. Not least, the results of the students improved. The question of whether there should be a mobile phone ban at national level or not can be seen as a small petitess, but it is not. It is a clear signal to teachers that they do not believe they have sufficient competence to do this, even though they have the tools in the legislation. Unfortunately, since it is not the only detailed regulation at the state level, there is a risk that teachers will stop taking responsibility – it is always someone else who interferes with or solves the problem. Legislation that students should not be allowed to carry mobile phones in the classroom is quite the wrong way to go if you want to work for more trust in the professionals in school. Why does the government choose to interfere in such a detail?
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-358	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for its answer. As mentioned earlier, studying is a big and important question when we come out and meet educators and school principals. You say that sometimes you feel that you don't have the confidence of the students. You don't have the trust of your parents, and you don't have the confidence of politicians. Unfortunately, there is often talk of poor politicians, whom one feels devalues the profession. It takes a lot of time for both educators and principals to see how they can work so that it will work in school. I know that all educators want a working environment both for the students and for the educators. They say that cluttered politicians cause you to lose some of your status as a teacher – you lose confidence in the profession that exists. That is why we are opposed to this ban and also to other detailed bans being introduced. For example, it is mentioned that no one would tell a doctor how the work at the hospital should be done, but that as an educator you get pointers about how to work. Because everyone has gone to school, so everyone knows how to do it in school," says many teachers. Clumsy politicians are therefore not good for school, but, on the contrary, we should increase the credibility of the profession so that people have confidence in teachers. This is, of course, important for politicians as well as for students and parents.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-362	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. I don't want to take my starting point in anecdotal memories and not in individual stories from the school world that students or parents can recall – or for that matter myself. Instead, I choose to go on the statistics available. We discussed this in the previous interpellation debate as well. Then just look at the statistics. Take, for example, the Swedish National Agency for Education's major follow-up of IT use in school, which came a few years ago. It showed a lot of interesting things that have great bearings on the attractiveness of the profession. Among other things, teachers called for more competence development in the use of IT in teaching. But it was also found that a very large proportion of Sweden's teachers are disturbed by mobile phone use at school. For example, two thirds of teachers said that each day they were disturbed in the teaching of texting, chatting or gambling. As Maria Stockhaus rightly points out, the legislation today contains provisions. One could say that the legislation is not neutral. The starting point of the legislation is that students can bring what they want to the classroom, but the legislation also contains explicit provisions that say that if something a student has with him, such as a mobile phone, interferes with the teaching, the teacher can take care of that object. The legislation also describes that the Vice-Chancellor should draw up rules of procedure for the school. We all know that a ban on having mobile phones in the classroom can be included in the rules of procedure. Legislation is therefore not neutral. Now, from the government's side, we want to change the legislation, so that the starting point is not to have mobile phones. The reason for this is that we have seen that many teachers and students get their teaching disturbed by mobile use. Teachers, parents and everyone else also know that the teacher who is going to put the time and effort into the lesson to argue about this and even take care of mobile phones risks losing valuable minutes of the most important resource we have in school, namely teaching time. There, teachers and students should devote themselves to what increases students' knowledge and brings learning forward. We simply want to turn over the steak and say that the starting point is that you do not have mobile phones. We want to strengthen teachers' professional practices and their ability to carry out their work by clearly saying that the teacher who wants to allow mobile phones should be able to do so. If so, it will be a positive decision rather than a negative one. In no way do we reduce teachers' room for manoeuvre or teachers' ability to make professional judgements. On the contrary, we increase teachers' ability to carry out their important profession in such a way that lessons can continue without unnecessary interference.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-369	Madam President, I would like The Minister refers to statistics where teachers say they have problems with interference from mobile phones. I think the reasonable question you should ask yourself is: why do they not use the tools they already have, instead of interfering in and steering more in detail? This is precisely the problem: we control matters in detail, and the teachers expect someone else to solve the problems. They become passive and do not take the responsibility that they actually have. It's in the classroom. It's happening. That's what happens there that makes a difference. A good teacher who feels that you have faith in the back, a freedom to design your teaching and feel the support of the principal has every opportunity to achieve good results. This is not the case if you feel that it is always someone who looks over your shoulder or talks about how to do and regulate detail and detail, and for that matter also interferes with when things become the subject of public debate, as this with mobile phones has become. Then politics goes in, because there are easy points in the media. I think that such a decision is nothing more than pure populism. It is hardly a serious policy. Of course, polls have been conducted in which voters say that they think it is clear that mobile phones should be banned, in response to a simple question, but then they have not looked at what this means for trust in the entire school system. There is another major issue of detailed governance, and it applies to all targeted state subsidies. They are also a major problem for Swedish schools, which leads to a lot of administration. We are now getting further detailed control through specific legislation on mobile phones. When the OECD submitted its report after having specially examined Swedish school, one of the most serious points raised was that everyone blames each other in the school system. No one took responsibility for what is happening at their own level, but they blamed someone else in the system. We have been interfering in detail for a long time – we are all guilty of this, even at the municipal level. Then the school has not been able to take on the responsibilities it should actually take. We need to support the school and not interfere in details. I think that the experience of other schools should be taken seriously, although it can be taken as anecdotal evidence. It is not only in a single municipality or in an individual school that it has worked when you clear the goals and let the profession get freedom. There are many studies that indicate that it is a success model. The question of mobile phones may seem small. But the symbolic value in it is very great. We are clearly talking about the fact that we have provided tools in the school law, but because teachers cannot do this, politics must go back into the details. Because that's what we're doing. We say that we need to screw further into the legislation. I find this sad. Unfortunately, I have also seen a great many examples of teachers who think just like me, namely that this is a clear signal that we do not trust Sweden's teachers. What the teaching profession in Sweden needs is really nothing like that!
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-379	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank the Minister for Education for the answers. But calling it anecdotal evidence probably doesn't fit in with this discussion. Every study visit I make to schools speaks of studies that do not exist. There is no studyo for educators when they cannot do their job, and there is no studyo for students when they cannot participate in the work they want. All the educators say that you have to increase respect for their profession and that they want to remove clumpy politicians. It sounds like a small detail when you discuss it, but it is precisely respect for teachers, unfortunately, that it does not exist either with parents in all contexts. We must stress that the teaching profession is a very important profession, one of the most important in Sweden we can say, and that we must support the teachers. But then we do so in other ways than by interfering in their work. We will give them the opportunity to do their work as well as possible.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-381	Madam President, I would like Both Maria Stockhaus and Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström return in their speeches to the assertion that this would constitute a distrust of the teaching profession. It's just the opposite. The legislation that the government, together with the Centre Party and the Liberals, will produce within the framework of the January Agreement aims to ensure that there will be security and study in our schools and that teachers, who want to maintain good order in the classroom, feel the support of society. The teacher who today wants an education where the students have mobile phones – there may be a reason for that – will be able to continue with it exactly the same as today. The teacher who today spends valuable minutes of every lesson on nagging and arguing about mobile phones will have the support of society to say: No, the mobile phones should not be there. I'm the one who decides if they'll be there. I meet a lot of teachers on my mission. I also meet teachers who think this is awkward. But I meet many more teachers who think it would be nice to avoid the eternal discussion about mobile phones with the students during teaching time. Therefore, I am convinced that a mobile ban at school would be good for strengthening security and education, but also actually for strengthening the teacher's profession. I do not see that it would in any way limit the teacher's ability to decide the way he or she wants to practice his or her profession. On the contrary! J ag sees it as a way to give the teacher who wants security and studyo in his classroom the support of society. The issue of mobile phones in the classroom may seem small, but when we consider how much time of teaching is disturbed in Swedish schools, it is not a small question. Look at the Talis survey, the big survey of teachers' and principals' working conditions in OECD countries! This survey clearly shows how Swedish school, compared to school in other countries, is often characterized by what we do not want to see. These can be different forms of delayed arrival, disorder or sometimes even threats and abuse, to a greater extent in Sweden than in many other countries. We can look at the PISA survey and see how students but also teachers and principals describe the Swedish school, and we can look at the great OECD review that was done. Then we see that we have a problem of security and study, and that problem we have to deal with. Mobile phones that interfere with teaching are included, according to my view, as part of the big problem complex of security and studyo. I think it will be a positive measure both for the students and for the teachers that we ensure that it becomes easier to apply the rules. The regulations that Maria Stockhaus points to today and says are easy to apply were I myself and formulated when I worked at the Swedish National Agency for Education, and that is quite a lot of pages of complicated legal text. Imagine how much easier it becomes if the rule is the opposite, if the starting point is that the teacher decides. I think that is a much, much simpler rule to apply and also a rule that actually supports teachers in their professional freedom, not restrictions.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-391	Madam President, I would like The fact that we have discipline problems in Swedish schools is nothing new. Unfortunately, it has been going on for a long time. It's very much about the leadership in the classroom. Being a good leader in the classroom is about pondus and authority. But basically the person standing there in the classroom must feel the trust of society. Now the government is choosing to enter into a detailed regulation dealing with mobile phones. There are many teachers who also say that it is a big problem that students wear hats or hoodies. Then one might wonder if it is the next step for the government to ban hoodies and hats in the classroom. We need good teachers in the classroom. We need skilled leaders in the classroom. Now I know it is not the Ministry of Education's area, but leadership is lacking in teacher training. If we want the good leaders in the classroom, we have to stop interfering in the details. If the regulations are perceived as complicated and the teachers do not know what opportunities they have to create order in their classroom, that is where we should put the shock and ensure that leadership is included in teacher training and that it is clear what powers you actually have. As the Minister for Education says, it is the teacher who finally decides. The signal that we should now decide even more about mobile phones in the classroom is the wrong way to go if you want to create trust. We cannot deal with this type of detailed regulation in the Swedish Parliament. It is completely unreasonable and creates more problems than it solves. When this proposal appears in this House, we will of course oppose it and try to oppose it as best we can. We hope that we can get a majority in this Parliament showing the confidence in the teachers they deserve. We believe that they can do this without more detailed regulation.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-397	Madam President, I would like On three possibilities, Maria Stockhaus has not been able to explain how a planned legislation aimed at giving teachers greater opportunities to decide in the classroom would undermine the teacher's authority. Nor has Maria Stockhaus been able to explain how today's legislation, which actually assumes that students have the right to bring mobile phones to the classroom unless otherwise stated, would somehow be better to strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession compared to the rule currently under discussion. Nor has Maria Stockhaus been able to explain how legislation that assumes that students bring what they want to go to the classroom would be neutral legislation, compared with a planned legislation that assumes that it is the teacher who decides what is going to be in the classroom when it comes to mobile phones. I am convinced that this will be a good piece of legislation. I am also convinced that legislation will make it a little easier for teachers to maintain order and security in the classroom. It will thus lead to greater opportunities for many students, including those who today are disturbed by the mobile use of classmates in the classroom, to learn more in school and to feel that security and students are there for them too. I look forward to presenting legislation that will ensure students' safety and education in a better way than today's legislation and will also be able to give teachers a little more weight in their backs and greater opportunities to do the most important work in Swedish schools, namely teaching.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-402	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me whether I and the government will review the regulations governing NIU (Nationally approved sports programmes) and RIG (National Sports Upper Secondary School) regarding the requirement for free education. Maria Stockhaus has also asked if I and the government will take other measures as the Swedish National Agency for Education has written in its request from 3 March 2018. In the request, the National Board of Education describes that there may be a need to review the uniformity of the assessment bases for the strength of the various special sports federations in order for a principal to start an elite sports education. I would like to begin by pointing out that free schooling is a very important basic principle for Swedish upper secondary school, so important that it is regulated in the School Act. It is thus decided by the Riksdag. Another important basic principle, regulated by the Education Act, is that everyone, regardless of their geographical residence and social and economic circumstances, should have equal access to education in the school system. I and the government are aware of the problems raised by Maria Stockhaus. The Swedish National Agency for Education also stresses the need for a review of the dimensioning and organisation of current systems in the field of national sports gymnasies and nationally approved sports education. The Swedish National Agency for Education also points out that nationally approved sports education has increased in scope, leading to high costs for municipalities and that the distribution of places between women and men in sports education may need to be reviewed. There is therefore a risk that there are a number of problems, and it is therefore not enough for individual changes to the regulatory framework to resolve them. Sport education currently comprises around 9 000 pupils, of whom about 1 000 are studying at the national sports gymnasium and about 8 000 students in the nationally approved sports education courses. My ambition and the Government's ambition is that it will continue to be possible for elite athletes to combine elite efforts with upper secondary education. These are then required to function satisfactorily. I and the government will therefore continue to follow the issue of sport training.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-407	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Since 2011, there are unique opportunities for young athletes to combine their upper secondary education with their sport. National sports gymnasies and nationally approved sports programmes have meant that elite young people have been able to combine an ordinary upper secondary education with an investment in their sport. Now the decision that the Swedish School Inspectorate has made regarding Berga Nature Use Upper Secondary School is in danger of putting this opportunity to the fore. In Berga they have decided to discontinue their horse training after the Swedish School Inspectorate's decision. Being an elite sport, no matter what it is, means, among other things, that you have to have your own equipment. It applies to skiing, hockey and golf but also horseback riding. To go for jumping or dressage means that you have to have your own horse – there is no other way out. In the competition, the interaction between horses and riders is crucial, and an interaction needs to be built up over time. You can't just jump on the first best horse and expect it to work. That a school like Berga, which offers a nationally approved sports training in horse riding, requires that you have your own horse is quite natural. The education is aimed at young people who want to be elite, and without their own horse they do not. That goes without saying. The alternative for an elite youth is to give up high school education altogether. Given that there is some uncertainty as to whether you can make a living as an elite athlete, there is a point in having a plan B. The alternative is also to get your upper secondary education at a distance, that is, completely without the normal social contacts that you get if you take a regular upper secondary education. The decision of the school inspectorate does not simply mean that national sports education in Berga is discontinued. In the long run, this means that there will be no possibility for anyone to remain, except possibly where no equipment is required. I have heard that for those who attend an internationally approved sports training in, for example, skiing requires that they have ten own pairs of skis. It may not be possible to compare with your own horse, but it is not directly a free upper secondary school. As I said, the National Agency for Education has brought this problem to the attention of the Ministry of Education about a year ago, but nothing has happened. It seems the government has no intention of doing anything. In the answer to my interpellation, it says that the government will continue to follow developments. This means that there are no plans whatsoever to do anything concrete in the near future. The Swedish National Agency for Education has been clear that a specific regulation needs to be investigated to meet the needs of different athletes, if the Government says that it still wants to provide the opportunity for elite young people to go to high school. If you have that ambition, you cannot just sit still and follow developments. Then you actually have to do something. What is required for the government to address this issue? If a letter from the Swedish National Agency for Education is not enough, what else is required for the government to address this issue?
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-418	Madam President, I would like The intention when creating sports education at upper secondary level was that it would be possible to combine an elite initiative with a functioning schooling. This possibility exists now, and it should be encouraged. Movement is fundamental to us humans, and that is why it has such incredible effects on us. It affects our brain positively and makes us brain-strong. It takes not least to get a good schooling. Thanks to NIU, national sports education, thousands of young people today can be elite in their sport while at the same time being equipped with the same skills as all other high school students. But now, Madam President, all sports gymnasies are in danger after this decision that becomes a precedent. Berga Naturbruksgymnasium in Haninge, Stockholm County, has since 2016 conducted NIU in horseback riding for both dressage and jumping riders. Being able to live at the school, practice at school and have the horse installed there gives students throughout the Stockholm region a unique opportunity to invest in their school and sports at the same time. A student said to me, "I would never have had this opportunity otherwise." But after the Swedish School Inspectorate's supervision Berga is now forced to shut down its NIU admissions in the autumn because the Swedish School Inspectorate notes that the principal does not comply with the statutory requirements for upper secondary school education to be free of charge. It is believed that the school should offer a free alternative for students who choose not to bring a horse to school. It is clear in the subject of special sports that a student should be able to reach the elite level of his/her sport. Then, Madam President, this will be an element 22 for schools. You have to have a free school and you have to ensure that students reach the elite level. All sport costs. Only a few rods for skiing costs several thousand. The decision of the School Inspectorate will also be a precedent for all gymnasiums, since no elite sports education is really free. The decision of the school inspectorate means that virtually everyone must provide sports equipment for all students, and then it does not matter what sport it is. Is it right, then, that no one should be allowed to take an elite initiative unless everyone is allowed to do so? We Moderates say no to that. We want to create opportunities for these young people. I think that here the Minister needs to take the lead shirt and create opportunities for students to continue their elite venture while at the same time getting a good school. The Minister for Education believes that she and the government have the ambition to combine school with elite research in sport. But how? It is not enough just to follow the question. How can it be made possible for these students to be elite at the same time as they go to school to gain the knowledge to which they are entitled? How does the Minister intend to resolve the 22nd question?
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-427	Madam President, I would like As has been shown by the questions from Maria Stockhaus and the speech from Alexandra Anstrell, this is not simply. Just as Alexandra Anstrell said, the government's ambition is high. It shall be possible for elite athletes to combine elite efforts with upper secondary education. I will certainly follow this issue closely. It is not a simple question, and therefore it is not possible to deliver a short, simple and quick answer from the Parliament's pulpit here and now. This is an important issue. A high school education is today necessary for a person to do well in life. It is necessary to be able to get a job and participate in society as an active citizen of society. It is also necessary to be able to read on. We want that opportunity to be available to all students, including those who want to bet on an elite sport. In addition, we want it to be possible to combine studies and elite sports. As both Alexandra Anstrell and Maria Stockhaus are well aware, I cannot comment on individual cases or on the decisions of individual authorities. I am forbidden to do so according to the form of government. But I can follow the question, and I will. I will also raise a discussion with the upper secondary schools where this type of training is conducted. The difficulty with this issue is not that we disagree, but the difficulty is that we find ourselves in a somewhat complicated situation. Madam President, I would like My answer will certainly mean that both Maria Stockhaus and Alexandra Anstrell from the speaker's chair will say that this is not good enough. Now the minister has to put on the leader's shirt. I assume you will. But I would really like to emphasise that putting on the leadership shirt also means listening to the people involved and having a dialogue with those who work on this issue in everyday life. It should also be ensured that the measures taken solve the problems. I say that what the government is doing now, namely following this issue and seeing what needs to be done, is what is needed for all of us who think that the principle of a free school is a principle that is enshrined in the Swedish school law and on which we all stand.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-434	Madam President, I would like During the last parliamentary term, there were many and long discussions in this House about whether or not horseback riding should be covered by the fitness allowance. Now it is not a question of education policy, but at the end of the day the long-awaited decision came to that end. Finally, it was decided to include horseback riding. I cannot help but wonder whether this government has a particularly negative attitude towards horseback riding. What would have happened if the Swedish School Inspectorate had decided on, for example, a ski gymnasium or a hockey gymnasium? Would the government have been just as reluctant to do anything if these sports had been affected? Riding is great in Sweden. We have many good riders at the elite level and of course we want more. Being able to combine upper secondary education with an elite initiative is something that we should protect in Sweden. It is good that the government says that it has the ambition that it should continue to be possible to have that combination for students, but if you do not do something, that possibility disappears. It is not that the issue is new, that it has not been lifted up and that the problems that exist are not already on the table. Having a dialogue is hardly meaningful. There are special sports federations that have tried to contact the Ministry of Education on this issue, but there has been a lack of interest in these courses. Now it has gone so far that a year ago the Swedish National Agency for Education produced a letter together with the Swedish Sports Federation. If you harden it, the letter actually contains a ready-made directive for an investigation. I cannot interpret it in any other way than that you do not really want the possibility of these courses to remain, even though you say that you have such an ambition. Not everyone knows how to bet. It's a harsh fact, whether it's money or talent. That's not possible. Since not everyone can seem to want the opportunity to exist for those who have special talents in certain sports. It is very easy for the government in this case to just sit on its hands and do nothing. The trainings will then disappear. There is no way to pursue education at this level and allow young people who want to be elite to attend such upper secondary education. They will disappear just as Berga has. If the ambition for the combination to remain is to have any credibility whatsoever, the government must at this point be prepared to act and not just follow developments. Berga happens to be in my constituency. I've been visiting there. They have now decided to close down and were very concerned at my visit. Many young people will be very disappointed because they will not be able to apply for education at Berga this autumn. How many more young people should be deprived of this opportunity before the government acts and tries to do something about a problem that the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish Sports Federation have clearly pointed out? They have basically given the government a ready-made investigation directive on the table. Yet the government has done nothing. This affects young people, and I find it sad that the government does not want to put any action behind the ambition that the Minister for Education claims to have.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-445	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for your speech! Dismantling NIU education will be a severe blow to Swedish equestrian sports. It is also a tragedy for all the young people concerned who have set out to apply for upper secondary school education in the autumn. It also gives completely the wrong signals to those students who go to school today and to everyone else at NIU courses who both want to bet on their schooling. I wonder what the Minister of Education is saying to all of them. Madam President, I would like It is striking that equestrian sport is repeatedly caught up in complicated regulations. For example, until just a few years ago it was not possible to make deductions for riding as a health care. Now, government decisions lead to a high school with a focus on horse sports choosing to phase out its activities. Why is the feminist government not fighting for this? Of course, the main principle in the Swedish school should be that all education should be free of charge. At the same time, however, it must also be possible to find solutions for these sports talent to be able to both elite and to acquire a secondary education that they can fall back on later in life. I'm waiting for an answer from the Minister for Education. How will this be resolved? The Minister talks, on the one hand, about dialogue, on the other, about following the matter. Will the Minister have a dialogue? How will she follow this? Is it from the TV couch, or how does she plan it all? This is just a matter of leadership – nothing else.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-451	Madam President, I would like Both Alexandra Anstrell and Maria Stockhaus bring forward questions that almost imply a conspiracy theory that the government has something against equestrianism. I can assure Members that equestrian sport has an important role to play in Swedish sports. It also has an important role in Swedish rural policy and, as Alexandra Anstrell says, from a feminist point of view. For too long, the sports that many girls engage in have received a little stepmotherly treatment in Swedish society. I do not want to contribute to the survival of such misunderstandings. The conspiracy theory that this has something to do with equestrian sports or equestrian sports, I think we can leave that behind. Instead, the issue is a regulatory framework in which the Swedish National Agency for Education has identified a large number of problems. Among these problems, the questioners highlight the particular problem of where the line goes between, on the one hand, duty-free and, on the other hand, the possibility of performing elite sports with partly own tools or horses. I would like to emphasise that I do not see any conflict between us on this issue. We agree that it is important to be able to combine elite sport with upper secondary education. There's no dividing line between us. We also agree, I suppose, on the basic principle that the Swedish school should be free of charge and that this principle is important. The current picture of problems highlighted by the authors of the questions I have tried to show in my answers that I share. We should ensure that this issue can be resolved in such a way that children and students have access to elite sports initiatives while attending high school. That is, I would like to maintain, a complicated question. My intention is to follow it – not to say that I will be sitting on my hands, to quote one of the authors of the question. I will do so by listening to those who are out in the business and who are working on this. I will ensure that the issue is dealt with in such a way that we can achieve what we agree on. Children and pupils who want to go to upper secondary school and who want to be elite at the same time as they receive upper secondary education should have the opportunity to do so. And the Swedish school will continue to be free of charge.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-457	Madam President, I would like I know that many of those who attend these training courses and pursue them with great interest follow this debate. I am sorry to have to say this, but I do not think they feel at all reassured by what the Minister for Education has said here in the speaker's chair. It is very clear that the group of students who want to combine an elite initiative in sport with upper secondary education is a group that the government does not give a very high priority. In addition to the fact that the Swedish National Agency for Education has drawn the attention of the government to the issue, as I said earlier, several special sports associations have also contacted the government. The minister says that she will start a dialogue now, but the unions have already made such attempts in the past. Starting these courses is not something that has been done in a hurry. There is a need for foresight. What guarantee is there that education can be revived if those who in Berga's case are forced to close? Such an education may be gone forever. Then they have deprived those who want to be elite on horseback riding an opportunity to do so in Stockholm County. One might wonder whether the government is really interested in maintaining these training courses. If you do not do something, they will eventually disappear, as I said, one by one, when the School Inspectorate emphasises the freedom of charge. They're gonna shut down. Together with many others, the Swedish National Agency for Education has clearly demonstrated that an evaluation and investigation is needed. This applies not only to the freedom of charge, as the Minister for Education points out, but also to other aspects of NIU and RIG. But the investigation must be set up, otherwise the problem will not be solved, but it will only remain. It is not enough for the Minister for Education to say that we agree on this matter, if the Minister, who is in power, does something about it. To follow the question is not to do anything about it. Efforts have already been made to bring up dialogue. It has gone so far as to present a joint letter to the Ministry of Education a year ago to point this out and to try to ensure that more of these training courses are not discontinued. Nevertheless, the Minister for Education has done nothing about this.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-463	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus makes valiant attempts to show some kind of unwillingness to take up the issue or even, as was said earlier, an aversion to equestrianism. I can assure her that I will really follow this issue. That does not mean that I will sit on my hands, but that means that I will follow the issue in my dealings with the relevant sports federations and school providers. I can also assure Maria Stockhaus that I have good and rich experiences of cooperation with both the high school of nature conservation and the schools that organise nature conservation programmes of various kinds. These are schools that are important in both our rural policy and our school system. Moreover, these schools need good conditions to be able to carry out their activities. I thank Maria Stockhaus for raising the issue. I also thank Alexandra Anstrell for helping to keep this issue alive. It is important for many young people in Sweden and for many schools. Thank you for the debate.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-466	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me if it is reasonable for the Children's and Student's representative to award damages to the student in cases where the School Inspectorate has made the assessment that the teacher's actions have complied with the School Act. He also asks what immediate initiatives I and the government will take to review the mission to the Children's and Student's Ombudsman and what planned measures I and the government intend to take to increase the competences of teachers and principals at school. The Swedish State School Inspection and the Swedish Children's and Student Ombudsman, BEO, supervises the section of the School Act(2010:800) dealing with measures against insulting treatment(Chapter 6).). The School Inspectorate supervises that school principals and their staff carry out their activities in accordance with the rules in force. BEO's role is to investigate abusive treatment directed at children or students. If BEO's investigation shows that a child or pupil has been subjected to abusive treatment and there are conditions to claim damages from the school operator, the BEO represents the child or pupil in court if the child or pupil so agrees. As a minister, I am prevented from deciding how an authority should decide on a matter of how to apply law. International research shows a strong correlation between learning environments characterised by order problems and school performance, both at individual and school level. The headmaster leads the school work and the teacher leads the work in the classroom. It is clear from the curricula that teachers in that work should pay attention and, together with other staff, take the necessary measures to prevent and combat all forms of discrimination and insulting treatment. The work against insulting treatment is essential to satisfy children's and pupils' right to good education in a safe environment. This is the very purpose of the mission of the School Inspectorate and BEO in this part, and the government does not intend to change their mandate at present. The Government decided in August 2018, following a proposal from the 2015 School Commission, to clarify the Vice-Chancellor's responsibility for safety and study in the school curricula. It is also indicated in the curricula that students should show respect and consideration for school staff and other pupils. The changes in the curricula for comprehensive school, preschool class and recreation centre, Sami school and upper secondary school will enter into force on 1 July 2019. It is time for an increased focus on ensuring that teachers and principals have the opportunity to carry out their important work in school. Part of this is the agreement reached between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, the January agreement, which aims, among other things, to create studies in schools. Together, we have agreed that a national plan for school education and safety will be developed and implemented. Work is now under way to implement the agreement in this part, which I look forward to.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-471	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Education Anna Ekström for her reply. Why do the Liberals submit an interpellation on the powers of teachers and the powers of school leaders? Why is this an important issue for us to highlight at the highest political level, in the Swedish Parliament? Well, it is due to something we have repeatedly seen in the teacher association's rankings and reports, in the teachers' association's rankings and reports and in SCB's review, which was last done in 2017. A large survey was carried out looking at teachers outside of the profession. It has been shown that 60 to 65 percent of those who have left the profession have done so due to stress, workload and health and safety problems. For 10 percent of those who have left the teaching profession, it is a direct consequence of threats, violence and harassment by pupils or their guardians. 40 percent of them also say that they have not received any support from principals, school politicians or national rules to deal with situations vis-à-vis pupils and guardians. That is why we are highlighting this problem. It may be suggested that we exemplify with some individual case, but this is something that we can repeatedly see in the media, in school inspection decisions and in the decisions of the Children's and Student's Ombudsman. These are situations where there are criticisms – admittedly against the principal – of interventions made, for example, against a messy student in the classroom in order to bring peace of mind and study in accordance with the School Act. When the case is examined afterwards, it turns out that the teacher has not made any formal errors. Then the Children's and Student's Representative chooses to pursue the issue of damages. In extreme cases, it has been about paying 50 000 SEK to the student who according to the Children's and Student Ombudsman has been violated, but it is more common with 10 000 or 15 000 SEK. Even if the Children's and Student's Representative is directing their decision to the principal, it has repeatedly been shown that it is the individual teacher who has triggered the process, the review and the claim for damages. And it is usually the teacher who gets fired, gets bought in or because of the very messy situation says: I can't stay in this profession. The consequence is that you leave school. That is what we mean, Madam President, with the interpellation heading Criticism towards teachers who comply with the school law, and that is why I have asked the government if you think it is reasonable that this is the way it is. That is why we have asked the government if you have any plans to review the mission to the School Inspection and, in particular, the Children's and Student Representative. It is a strange solution, I personally think, that this is today a department of the School Inspectorate. This has been the case since the Social Democrats held power in spring 2006, when this institution was set up and appointed a special representative for children and pupils. I would also like to stress from the Liberals that this is not about us saying yes to bullying at school. Every year, we wake up exercise against bullying. I have even, as a Member of this House, exercised that bullying other students should be criminalised in the School Act. Teachers who commit crimes and do crazy things should of course be reported to the police and, as a final measure, get rid of their teacher's ID. But now it is not about this, it is about teachers' powers and the fact that we have government agencies that undermine teachers' powers.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-476	Madam President, I would like I agree with Roger Haddad that it is extremely important to ensure that teachers' working environment is safe and secure. It should be such that the teachers want to remain in the profession, but also so that the teachers can put their strength and their gunpowder on what is most important in school, namely the teaching. They should not have to sit and be worried or afraid that normal professional practices would be criticised. I am also well aware that teachers' tasks are difficult. At the same time, a teacher in a classroom has a duty to ensure that it is safe and secure in the classroom for the children who are there. This may mean that the teacher may sometimes even be obliged, for example, to separate children who fight or intervene when children are at risk of harming one another or harming themselves. Here the teacher has an active duty to act – a duty to care or a duty of supervision. At the same time, we all agree that we do not want a school where children and students are afraid of being physically mistreated by their teachers. We've left that school behind a long time ago. I, who meet many teachers, have often heard of the concerns you have; you feel that there is a duty to intervene, while it is difficult to know exactly where the limit is when you are going to be criticized. But I can assure Roger Haddad that I have never met a single teacher who wishes to have in the toolbox an opportunity to physically punish children or physically go hard on children. I think we agree that these are difficult tasks that are a necessary part of the teaching profession and that can sometimes be complicated to regulate. Then it is wise to have a regulation that says that the teacher has a right and an obligation to intervene but that the students should be protected against violations that go too far. Now Roger Haddad strongly criticises the authority that is set to judge the difficult situations that teachers may find themselves in, but also the complex situations that students are exposed to. It goes without saying to me that this criticism should not be directed at the authority. It should be directed towards the legislation developed during the time of the alliance government. In fact, it was Jan Björklund who was the rapporteur's minister when the School Act was adopted. It was Nyamko Sabuni who was the rapporteur's minister when the Anti-Discrimination Act was adopted with the terms of violation that existed. Roger Haddad and I agree that the situation prevailing in Swedish schools should be characterised more by security and study. That is why, Roger Haddad, our two parties have jointly signed an agreement, the January agreement, in which we have committed ourselves to developing regulations, a national study plan and reviewing the possibilities for disciplinary powers. It is precisely because we want teachers to be able to do their work with respect for their children but also with security in their professional activities. Thank you for the question, Roger Haddad, and thank you for your commitment! Let's work together on this issue, and let's all stop shooting at the pianist together.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-482	Madam President, I would like It is incomprehensible that the Government does not answer my questions. I want to know what the Government intends to do about the legislation or the Children's and Student's Representative. You yourself say it's a political issue. You're ultimately responsible. You've been in the department for two and a half years. You've been Minister of Education, but with a focus on high school. There too, there are BEO cases. Your party has been responsible for these questions for the last four and a half years. It was your party and your government that set up the function in spring 2006. It is important to assess the situation as it is today. I believe that the regulatory framework needs to be reviewed. The answer I have in a brief sense is that the government does not intend to change its mandate at present. Let us take a few examples, Madam President. Teachers lift up a student who blocks the accessibility of a school in Lidköping. The child and pupil representative considers that it was offensive to the student and pursues the issue of damages. In Mölndal there is a stone's throw at the school yard and even casting of objects. The teacher intervenes. The representative of children and pupils believes that it was offensive for the teacher to intervene in this situation. We have another noted case with a very messy student of previous age in primary school in Central Sweden. There a teacher is forced to intervene to show the student to clarify. That is exactly what the Government says. Staff shall take the necessary measures to prevent all forms of discrimination and insulting treatment. The problem is that when the teachers do, they are criticized. They sometimes become so by their own principal, the local school politicians or indirectly via the Children's and Student's representative. I strongly argue that in each individual case it is a matter of an individual teacher acting to maintain a certain situation outside the classroom, in the corridor or by far the most common in the classroom. Then the Government shall not and cannot refer to future work under the January Agreement. That's not what I'm asking. I'm not interested in that part. This is about decisions where a department within the School Inspectorate makes its assessment. It is obvious when I listen to the Government's oral presentation and the answers that you have not contacted the School Inspectorate, but I have. There are those at the School Inspectorate in the other Legal Department who question the assessments and decisions of the Children's and Student Ombudsman. This issue has been in the authority for at least a year. It is not only possible to say: Everything that they do is correct. Even their own authority does not think so. Madam President, I would like That should be a signal to us politicians: look at the information and the situations, and do something. Change the mission, put down the Children's and Student's representative and build something new. If you want to report a student who has bullied you can at least do so to the School Inspectorate independent of the Children's and Student representative. It's just to change the mission. The School Inspectorate carries out general reviews regarding support for pupils, the school situation and the working environment. It has a huge and important mission. It should, of course, be able to have a coordinating role also in the case of students who are being violated or bullied. As far as teachers are concerned, there is a structure. They are either reported to the police or subject to the Teachers' Responsibilities Board. It is high time to review that regulatory framework, Prime Minister.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-492	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad states with great clarity and force from the speaker's seat that he understands that I cannot comment on individual cases. He goes on to say that he does not expect me to speak on individual cases and then go through a number of himself selected individual cases that he expects me to comment on. I am absolutely convinced, Roger Haddad, that at the same time as I do, Roger Haddad would not hesitate to question the appropriateness of a minister speaking on specific cases. My conviction is that we have a situation in the Swedish school where teachers are concerned about their work environment, just as Roger Haddad mentioned. Teachers who have had contact with me increasingly highlight the difficult working environment that exists. There is an awareness of the decisions that teachers make within a fraction of a second. As adults, they will quickly decide how to proceed in a situation that can be threatening, scary and frightening. I have the greatest respect that teachers should have support and feel the support of society in their backs when teachers make the tough decisions. But I argue equally strongly that those of us who have been given the responsibility to have legislation should look at the beam in their own eyes before we look at the grande in the eyes of others. The legislation that Roger Haddad goes against is an important part of the school law that the alliance government led by Jan Björklund knelt in 2010. The legislation that Roger Haddad rejects in Parliament's pulpit is based on the discrimination legislation presented by Nyamko Sabuni as Minister of State. This is the time for us to ensure together that the January agreement concluded jointly by our two parties can be used to strengthen teachers' ability to practise their important profession. We agree that safety and education will increase in school. We agree that we will review the disciplinary powers that teachers and principals need in order to maintain order and study. This is a message of joy to Roger Haddad. We will work together on these issues. I look forward to doing it. I'm animated by being able to do it in such a way that students shouldn't have to be afraid of being violated in school and teachers shouldn't have to be afraid that a second-time error can ruin a whole career. Let's work together. My hand is extended to Roger Haddad for a joint work on this important issue. I am also grateful to the honourable Member for highlighting the issue both in the media and in the speaker's chair. It is important that we ensure that the legislation is so good that teachers can be boldly the adults in the classrooms, in the schoolyards, in the corridors and in the dining room of our schools.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-499	Madam President, I would like I am very disappointed with the government's and the government's handling of this issue. You cannot refer to old regulations when you have been in a government for five years. You have had five years to change the legislation. Stop referring to old decisions taken in 2009. It's been ten years. You must have been able to do something about the situation. You're the one in charge of the Department of Education. It is also a great disappointment that we cannot say anything to all teachers and principals. It applies to those who have quit, been laid off or been fired. I have never been in contact with so many principals and teachers as after I submitted this fundamentally important interpellation with the questions to the Government. This is because this is an issue that many cannot deal with locally. There is a concern among many teachers to intervene. You're scared. You're very afraid of being reported. And this is not something I made up. You can go to any school or talk to any teacher union; they will bring this forward. That is why we are anxious to change the law. It has nothing to do with the national plan announced. Today, I do not even know exactly what it will contain. The Government says: Do not criticize the agency, because it is about the regulations! But that is why I am having this debate with the government. What in the regulation and regulation do you intend to do something about and change? The answer I am getting today is once again that the government does not intend to change the mission, that is to say, political, that means that the legislation will continue to apply as it stands today. That is totally unacceptable. We're going to challenge this, and we're going to hunt you in the government to bring about a change-- I can promise you that. Because this is not acceptable.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-504	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad is once again storming. And what he's going to storm against is a nid picture. I have now stood in this speaker's chair and stated that the problem that Roger Haddad raises is a problem that we should be working on. We have a responsibility to ensure that Swedish teachers can arrange teaching and education in schools in such a way that students are never violated but also in such a way that teachers can practice their profession with boldness. We are in complete agreement on this. We also agree that these are issues that we want to work with. Roger Haddad says he doesn't know what a national study plan will include. My answer to Roger Haddad is that it is in his hands, mine and our party friends. We will work together with security and study at school, and we will work together to strengthen the teaching profession. Our party leaders have signed up to this in the January agreement, and I see it as a major and important task, together with Roger Haddad, to ensure that it becomes a reality. I don't imagine it's easy. However, I think that the issue deserves to be taken so seriously that we are discussing what is the content of the legislation on security and study and the legislation on what powers should exist rather than asking, as Roger Haddad does in his interpellation, for instructions to an authority under the authority of the government. Once again, I would like to thank Roger Haddad for raising this important issue and to ensure that I will take this very seriously. During the term of office before me, when I have the responsibility to be Minister of Education, the issue will be high on the agenda for Sweden's teachers' sake but also for Sweden's students' sake. The Swedish school should be a place that is safe for both teachers and students.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-509	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me how the government will tighten admission requirements for teacher training. He has also asked when a decision will be taken to introduce an aptitude test to be accepted for all teacher training courses. Furthermore, he has asked what I mean specifically by the government wanting to make teacher education more attractive. Initially, I would like to say that I share Roger Haddad's concern for the lack of teachers. This is one of the biggest challenges facing the Swedish school system. Attractive teacher training is an important part of teacher supply, and during the previous term a series of efforts were made to get more people to study as teachers. In recent years, Sweden has been at historically high levels both in terms of the number of applicants and beginners at our teacher training courses. That's good. But I agree with Roger Haddad that we need to do more. It is therefore very good that our parties, together with the Center Party and the Green Party, have agreed to initiate a reform of teacher training. The January agreement states that admission requirements should be increased and that more teacher-led hours should be introduced. In addition, it is clear that the duration of supplementary education, the KPU, should be shortened and the pace of study increased. The possibility of working at a school and studying to be a teacher in parallel will also be improved. The Swedish Council for Higher Education, UHR, has been tasked with conducting a trial with aptitude tests for pre-school and teacher education. However, the Agency's analyses do not show any generally positive effects of the suitability assessment, and UHR does not recommend that this be carried out when admission to the teacher training courses. At the same time, however, it is important that those who begin to study as teachers also complete their studies. UHR was therefore given a preparatory assignment to develop a special admission test for the subject teacher education, which was reported in December 2018. The purpose of such a test is to measure applicants' motivation and motivation to become teachers in order to reduce the drop-out from the subject teacher education and to get more students to complete the subject teacher education. In the report, the UHR proposes a series of measures to increase the flow of teacher education and to reduce the drop-out rate. My ambition and desire is that the Council report will be taken into account in the work to reform teacher training to be done under the January agreement. In July 2018, the Government commissioned the Swedish Council for Higher Education to investigate and propose how a model with higher requirements for special eligibility could be designed. The Authority shall conduct the mission no later than 29 May 2019. I see the results of this work as an important basis for increasing the admission requirements for teacher education. We have a great and important job ahead of us. I look forward to fruitful and constructive discussions and good cooperation between us parties in order to achieve what is our common goals.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-516	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Matilda Ernkrans, for your answer! The teacher education, if combined nationally, is the largest education at our higher education institutions. It is crucial to our well-being and development as an educational nation. The quality and throughput and the success of this will have enormous consequences for our entire future, given that it is they who come out of teacher training who will teach tomorrow's doctors, teachers and even ministers. Madam President, I would like But there is also a problem that we want to draw attention to. It is about seeing fewer applicants while the number of places at the country's universities has increased. We also see that, overall, fewer are taking a teacher's degree from teacher education. The University Chancellor's Office, the former Swedish National Agency for Higher Education, also says this and warns that there is a risk of falling eligibility among teachers and preschool teachers. In parallel with the recruitment to teacher training, we have a shortage of teachers in Sweden. We need up to 2031 about 187 000 teachers and preschool teachers, of which about 80 000 are in the immediate future, that is, within five years. At the same time, we know that 38 000 teachers are outside school doing something else. But we can't talk about them today, because now we're talking about teacher training. That is why I have asked a number of questions about admission requirements. What are the consequences, for example, when the number of places has expanded so much? We are critical of that. I would like to ask the Government whether she and the Government intend to tighten up the supply or just to continue expanding. The more places and the fewer applicants per place, the less competition. There will be no competition, and young people, students and even older applicants, of course, who sometimes have poor pre-knowledge for high school come in anyway. This causes quality to deteriorate and we see quite large drop-outs from teacher training. The second question, which I am particularly interested in, is the suitability test for admission. I know that the Swedish Council for Higher Education has advised the government not to proceed with this, but I have actually visited Jönköping University, Madam President, which has decided to take the permanent aptitude test. What they told me is that it has had very positive effects both on who is applying for the education and on the flow. I want to know what the Government thinks on that question, because I was not really told in the answer given here.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-521	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to agree with Roger Haddad that the lack of teachers is a major challenge. I would also like to add my voice to what the honourable Member has said about the fact that teachers are one of the most important professions that we have to train in our country. We simply need more skilled teachers in our classrooms in order for our children to bring the knowledge to which they are entitled but also for us to continue to be a leading knowledge nation. For this reason, I am very pleased that, in the January agreement that we Social Democrats, Liberals, Centre Partyrs and environmentalists have to look after, we are clear that we want to reform teacher education and that we want to tighten up the admission requirements. I think, like Roger Haddad, it should be the very best teachers in our schools. Having said that, I would also like to say that it is important that we as politicians work to strengthen the image of what it is like to be a teacher and of the teaching profession. Therefore, it is also important to show that teachers' salaries are actually increasing now and that more people want to become teachers. As I said at the outset, in recent years we have actually been at historically high levels in terms of the number of applicants and the number of beginners to our teacher training courses. This shows that many people want to study as teachers in Sweden, and we should be careful of that. We need everyone who wants to become a teacher and more if we are to take on the challenge of the lack of teachers. What we can also have with us is that there were, for example, more students with a merit value of at least 20,0 who were admitted to the teacher training courses than to the medical programs. Having said that, however, I am very much looking forward to the work that we have to do on tightening up admission requirements. As I said in my introduction, I know that the Liberals and Roger Haddad are very interested in the suitability test, but I think that in the conversation and in the discussion that we should have in common on how to tackle a tightening up of admission requirements we need to be careful. I think we should make use of the reports we have received from the UHR, and I also think we should wait and wait for the report that comes on what is currently being investigated about specific admission requirements. We also know that this spring there will be an evaluation of the quality of teacher education in our higher education institutions and universities. All of this, I mean, is important in order for us to be able to take seriously the work of ensuring that more people want and can become teachers in Sweden. It is a joint commitment we have, and we will do this in the best possible way.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-526	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, my questions were not answered by the Government. I had questions about quality and that there are major dropouts in several directions. It can be a drop-off, or actually a stay, of up to 50 percent. When you go in and look at how many of the teacher students are left three or four semesters into the education you can see that half of them are gone all of a sudden. It is very serious, and it is from a still low level when it comes to recruitment. According to the University Chancellor's Office, we would need to have 8 500 more students per year starting teacher training in order to have a chance at all to catch up with the need for recruitment in the country and to tackle the teacher shortage – in parallel with all other things that municipalities and the state can do to increase the attractiveness of the profession. But this debate is about the quality and throughput of teacher training. I still want to know: Is the government going to tighten up on the number of training places? We are critical of the approach taken by the Social Democrats, which continues to increase the number of seats. This results, once again, in low scores or lack of pre-knowledge applicants coming in because there is no competition for places in teacher training. When it comes to aptitude tests, I know what I and the Liberals think, but I want to know what the government and the Government think. We believe that there should be a requirement for an aptitude test on all teacher training courses and on all orientations as far as it goes throughout the country. We believe that the requirements could be tightened up by introducing an aptitude test. It is not enough to have very high grades, but to be motivated and suitable to work in a classroom situation. I maintain my question and would like to know what the Government and the Government think.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-530	Madam President, I would like It must be in the viewer's eye – and ear – whether or not you feel that the Council of State answers the honourable Member's questions. I think I am giving reasonable and well-thought-out answers to the questions that I get from the honourable Member in the context where we actually know that we will be doing a job together to tighten up the admission requirements for teacher training. I agree with Roger Haddad when I say that we need to work on finding the right efforts to get more people to finish teacher training. Sweden needs more competent teachers. It is right and proper that education is demanding, but being a teacher is one of our society's most important jobs. It is important that those admitted to the teacher education actually have the knowledge and skills needed to pass the degree, and that is why the previous government started work with concrete proposals to raise the requirements for reading to teachers. These are the ones I presented in my introduction and which I think should form the basis of when we now take on our common task within the January agreement, namely to increase the admission requirements for teacher training and reform teacher training. However, we should also bear in mind that there is a great variety. The honourable Member is quite right that there are, as it is said, problems with the retention of the subject teacher training courses. However, in the case of pre-schooler training, they are within the normal range of programme training. So it is different when it comes to teacher training. I believe, above all, that it is about, as I said earlier, that we have a responsibility as politicians in supporting the teaching profession, talking about it as one of our most important professions and trying to strengthen both the teaching profession and education. For this reason, the government already launched the first quality evaluation of teacher training during the last parliamentary term, because it is important to keep track of the quality of our teacher training. At the same time, I am convinced that if we are to be able to train more teachers, the possibility is that there are actually training places quite a basic part. I also believe that we need to work more on what is also included in the January agreement and on which we have already started work, namely more ways into the teaching profession. We work more with supplementary education. We have already started that work, and it has also produced good results in what we have been able to evaluate. There are actually more who pass their teacher's degree if they go through the KPU, as it is called. Increasing the pace of study and having a slightly shorter KPU are also things that we have said together that we should continue to work with. I think we have a shared responsibility here. There's a lot of work going on. And with our commitment to these issues, we can do this even better together, so that we can have more really skilled teachers and who are also examined as teachers.
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-536	Madam President, I would like This is partly about the attractiveness of the teaching profession. But the focus is not on higher teachers' salaries. I have mentioned that, for various reasons, 38 000 trained teachers are no longer in the profession. The main reason for leaving the profession, as I mentioned in the previous debate, is lack of working environment and poor conditions. It is clear that it must be handled by the principals, not least. But the state can also stimulate through career opportunities, training opportunities, skills initiatives and so on. Basically, the problem is not the number of places in teacher training. I maintain it. Liberals do not believe that there are shortcomings in the number of seats at the country's higher education institutions. Today it is too easy to get into many courses of teacher training. An even bigger problem is, says the University Chancellor's Office, that many drop out after two three semesters due to poor prior knowledge. So it is not the number of places that is the problem. With regard to aptitude tests and admission requirements, the Government now has a third chance to answer the Liberal question. We want an aptitude test for all teacher training, as far as possible, throughout the country. Will the Social Democrats and the Green Party, the current government, make such a proposal to Parliament in the near future?
i-a9c2b961a6f48782-539	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise that if we are to manage to get more people to want to become teachers, that more people should choose to apply for teacher training, we need to talk well about the teaching profession and also to provide good conditions for the teaching profession. The honourable Member is quite right that not everything is about education. It is also about the situation at school. Therefore, it is important and good that we can continue to work with security and education at school. It is good that we agree that we need to invest in, for example, teaching assistants in order for those who are teachers in school to be able to spend more of their time on learning. I think it is a good thing that during the previous parliamentary term we were able to raise teachers' salaries. It is good that we have managed to reverse developments. A few years back, we lost 10,000 employees in our schools, and one in five teachers left the profession for reasons other than retirement. Now we have 28 000 more employees in the school, and we have turned it around so that there are historically many who want to study to teachers. We have found new ways into the teaching profession through supplementary education and by having the opportunity to work at a school and study the teacher education in parallel. That is something that I think we need to continue to develop. All of this goes hand in hand. And we need to get this right and wisely for the future, so that we can combine higher admission requirements for teacher education – because it's the best that will become a teacher – with more graduates as teachers. I look forward to working on that together.
