i-a61bce2be2f8e199-1	Mr President, I would like to At the outset, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation. Wishful thinking before accurate volume assessments – this is part of the title of the Swedish National Audit Office's review report that we have now gathered to debate. Today, our labour market is extremely segregated, in fact most segregated throughout Europe. The reason for this does not require deeper analysis but is rather the effect of a series of bad decisions for a long time. Today, unemployment is as follows. Among natives it is 3.8 per cent. Among foreign born, it is 15.4 per cent. It gives an average of 6.5%. Linked to these figures, we all know that subsidised employment conceals a large proportion of unemployment in a long and stable boom. The Swedish National Audit Office's review covers the period between 2006 and 2015, when 23 labour market policies were launched by various governments. Remediing the situation in which those in power have put us in over the last few decades is not an easy task, especially since it has chosen to turn a blind eye to the problems of the parallel areas of exclusion that have been highly and persistently chosen to create. The optimism has tried to pour oil on the waves, but this has given little and sometimes no results at all. In a valiant attempt to appear responsible, the figures have been chosen to look better than reality. A great many citizens of our country believe that politicians live far from this reality. The report we are discussing is yet another proof of this de facto approach. The Swedish National Audit Office's judgment on the Government's actions speaks clearly. As a speech, I could actually read in front of the report, as it says everything I want to say. By way of example, I would like to highlight three of the risks identified by the report. The first risk is that 15% of the funds allocated to the programmes have not been used. This represents 2.3 billion in 2016 alone. It is money that could have been very useful in more profitable labour market projects or in other parts of our common well-being, for example in elderly care, school, police or in some other area of welfare where people in today's Sweden are on their knees. The second risk is that the government has on average launched two programmes per year. The Swedish National Audit Office writes:- In some cases, the implementation costs for these efforts have been significant, while the number of participants has not come close to what was expected. High fixed implementation costs combined with low participation mean high unit costs. These are once again costs that the taxpayer will have to pay. The third and last risk I choose to highlight here is the fact that Arbetsförmedlingen directs participants to efforts aimed at increasing volumes. This is done rather than starting from the best perspective of the job seeker. It won't be good for any party. What do we do about these problems that have been created? In view of this, it must first be understood that we in the Swedish Democrats have for a long time warned against the consequences of the policies being conducted. These are consequences that we are now increasingly seeing accumulate in our society. We had never, as an entrance, put ourselves in the situation we now have. That is why a stop to migration is something we must have to deal with the problems we have with segregation on the labour market and in the exclusion areas. Another quote reads, "Do your duty, demand your right." This is a value that has laid the foundation for the good society we are living in today. Where the quotation comes from is not fully understood, but it probably has its roots in the labour movement. The most common theory is that it was the Social Democratic pioneer August Palm who once coined the concept. Of course, moving away from the basic principles that shaped us as people and nation has consequences. It is one of the most important foundations for creating faith in the future, cohesion and thus also a chance for reasonable integration. These are principles that government after government has chosen to dismantle in its anxiety and fear of being perceived as hostile to strangers. In our proposals, we welcome people who wish to contribute constructively to our community-building. We make a difference between those who want to build cars and those who burn cars. We make a distinction between those who want to contribute to Sweden and those who, of their own free will, choose to go down to the Middle East to war or serve terrorists in disgusting, disgusting and inhuman Islamic terrorist organisations. Mr President, I would like to We therefore want to place higher demands on people in terms of knowledge of language, society and gender equality, to take some examples. If you don't want to become a part of Swedish society, you don't have to, but then you shouldn't live here. If, however, you want to become part of our society with the values and fundamental principles we have, it goes very well. We have seen this not least among groups that came to Sweden earlier in history. Finally, I would like to say that it is regrettable that the report was given the sub-heading Wishful Thinking rather than accurate volume assessments. Instead, Performance-proof volume assessments in front of wishful thinking should have been the title of the report.
i-9NxYst3Xy7d1unHcEejnxv	Mr President, I would like to I would first of all like to support the proposal in the report and reject the accompanying motion. What we are discussing is the Swedish National Audit Office's review report on the number of participants in new labour market policies. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed 23 labour market policies implemented during 2006– 2015. According to the audit, the differences between governments' assessments and the real number of participants in the interventions have been large. In addition, differences have increased over time. Based on its review, the Swedish National Audit Office recommends that the Government systematically take into account factors that have previously been shown to influence the number of participants and document their assumptions and analyses in order to enable a follow-up. The Swedish National Audit Office also recommends that the Government should report the expected number of participants in the operations and ensure that it is possible to follow afterwards how many people have participated. Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Employment agrees with the Government's assessments and recommendations The Swedish National Audit Office reports in its review. The committee considers the report to be both well-founded and well-balanced. Furthermore, the committee notes that the government is working continuously to develop, among other things, calculation methods and forecasting models, documentation, follow-up and evaluations. The committee, like the government, believes that the review by the Swedish National Audit Office is an important contribution to this work. Mr President, I would like to As regards the follow-up motion by the Swedish Democrats, the committee does not share the motionaries' negative view of establishment measures. The committee shares the Swedish National Audit Office's view that there are development opportunities in the Government's work on assessing the volume of new labour market policy interventions. Developments in this area can contribute to the more effective implementation of labour market policies. Mr President, I would like to This is not the first time or the last time we have heard or read about the Swedish democrats' negative and blackish picture of the situation on the labour market. I want to give another picture. In recent years we Social Democrats have worked very actively at national and local level to improve the entry of newcomers into the labour market. The efforts are of great importance. The efforts provide a boost for the individual and contribute decisively to reducing inequality and segregation. Today, more than 360 000 more Swedes go to work than before. We have the highest employment rate in 25 years, and unemployment continues to fall. Youth unemployment, which was sky high when we took over 2014, has been pushed to the lowest level in 16 years. The Swedish labour market is strong. Jobs are growing all over the country. Of course, strong economic activity plays a role, but the government's investment in jobs and well-being brings results. Mr President, I would like to The development clearly shows how wrong SD has in its description of reality. New arrivals are getting faster and faster at work. The SCB shows that it used to take up to ten years before every other refugee entered the labour market, but that this time has now been shortened to almost five years. That time has been halved. Unemployment has decreased among both native and foreign-born. The proportion of newcomers working or studying 90 days after leaving the Employment Service's establishment programme has increased sharply. During the first six months of 2018, the share was 43 per cent, compared with 26 per cent during the same period in 2014. It is positive that developments are moving in the right direction, but that is not enough. More needs to be done for everyone who can work to get into work and for everyone who needs training to get to work to benefit from training. The start-up time needs to be further shortened, not my time for newly arrived women. Mr President, I would like to Several important reforms have been put in place to better accommodate and equip people who are newly arrived in our country to become part of the further construction of it. Although Sweden has for many years taken a great responsibility for people on the run, we have lacked a sufficiently systematic way to tackle integration. That is why we have introduced a residence law that requires all municipalities to take responsibility for the reception, especially those with a strong labour market. We have introduced language introduction, which can combine language, vocational training and practice as an increasingly effective tool for integration into the world of work. We have introduced the fast track, which has become an increasingly important effort to shorten the time from arrival to job for newcomers who have experience or training in professions where it is difficult to find a workforce. According to Arbetsförmedlingen, 8,000 people have participated in a fast track since the start in 2016. We have introduced additional services, which provide new opportunities for the long-term unemployed and newcomers to enter the labour market. More and more municipalities are taking advantage of the opportunity to include people who are far from the labour market as resource reinforcements in their activities. Today we have over 11,000 additional services throughout the country. We have introduced training requirements for newcomers, clearer requirements to take part in start-up measures that are deemed to lead to work, more training opportunities and the new introductory jobs – a simple and powerful employment support that replaces several old forms of support. Together with the parties, we are now designing start-up jobs. Today we have 340 local job tracks across the country with over 3,500 participants. Local job tracks are tailor-made ways to work with employers who need to hire. We have scrapped the custody allowance, which took foreign-born women further from the labour market rather than closer – and which the SD wants to reintroduce – on the issue of gender equality. We have imposed restrictions on parental insurance. This was a selection of measures to speed up and create the conditions for people to establish themselves in the labour market. As I said, that is not enough. More needs to be done. We have also presented in the January agreement between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Liberals and the Center Party a battery of efforts to strengthen job opportunities for jobseekers. Mr President, I would like to Unlike the Swedish Democrats, we build bridges. We are pursuing an active labour market policy that provides job seekers with access to measures that strengthen their ability to take the many job vacancies where employers currently find it difficult to find the skills they need. It is to invest in a stronger society where everyone is given the opportunity and place to participate in the construction of society.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-39	Mr President, I would like to It may seem a bit overstated to want to debate this product, Riksrevisionen's report on the follow-up of participants in Preparatory and Orientative education within the start-up assignment. From the list of speakers, this may not be the hottest debate of the year on labour market policy either. Nevertheless, I think there are grounds for raising a number of points in relation to this report. These are things that are rarely discussed, but where a little ritually is taken for granted. After all, we all agree, both in committee and with the government, that the Swedish National Audit Office has made some reasonable and sensible comments in several reports about this major effort – i.e. Preparatory and Orientation Training, which is the most common activity in the establishment mission. It is an effort aimed at job seekers who need to prepare for another labour market policy programme, education or work. A previous report concluded that there could be negative effects of taking part in the operation as a first operation compared to not participating in any programme at all or compared to taking part in work placements. The issue now is that monitoring and evaluation are considered to be inadequate and that the instructions for action do not always seem to be based on the needs of the unemployed. This is in a business that is mostly procured – in 2017 for a total of SEK 2.2 billion, of which SEK 1.6 billion related to the start-up assignment. There is therefore a great deal of room for improvement. But my point and the Left Party's point is that you have to look at this in a broader perspective in order to get anywhere, and that is unfortunately not done in either the National Auditor's report or the government's response to it. The Left Party is in favour of active labour market policies. The unemployed must be offered active measures to be better equipped to enter or return to a constantly evolving labour market. In order for this policy to be effective, action needs to be concrete, varied and designed with the needs of the unemployed and the labour market in mind. But in recent decades, and especially after the right-wing government's accession in 2006, Swedish labour market policy has deteriorated and weakened in a number of ways. I would argue that it is a sort of individualised penal philosophy that has come to characterize parts of labour market policy. It has taken the form of reductions in benefits and a deterioration in the conditions of entry into unemployment insurance – a deterioration which the Left Party has partially repaired in its budgetary cooperation with the former government. The content of labour market policy measures has also changed. For example, the Reinfeldt government sharply reduced vocational labour market training and instead allowed the so-called phase 3 to grow. Here too, the focus on politics has been arduously reversed. Unfortunately, however, there is still an idea that the unemployed, especially those who have a complex situation and are far removed from the labour market, need to be acquitted through measures which may have a doubtful value for the unemployed. Many times they seem to have the primary purpose of controlling the individual's time and everyday life. This is what we believe is also reflected in the shortcomings of preparatory and orienteering training. I note that the committee agrees with what we from the Left Party have said, namely that, without any further thought, it seems to have assigned some people to programmes just to enable them to be activated and that it is not good. It is f int, but the committee does not want to know the second part of our criticism, namely that this should prompt some reflection on the system and that so much of them are procured externally. These things are connected, because this way of using Preventive and Orientative Training allows many external suppliers to see an opportunity to organize a program and get paid for it. This also brings with it difficulties and costs of control in a situation where suppliers, authorities and the unemployed can have very different incentives. There may simply be an incentive for those who offer or sell this service to simply replenish the volumes. Moreover, the socio-economic costs of such a regime are higher than just the paid compensations that do not fulfil their purpose and also include the cost of losing confidence in labour market policies as well as the loss of opportunities for people who are unemployed due to different types of problems or skills shortages. These should receive adequate support from society that they do not receive. It seems reasonable to improve the monitoring and evaluation of individual actions, but it should be borne in mind that doing so also involves costs and red tape. Then it is important that evaluation is not only thorough but also relevant. In the light of the criticism that we have raised here, I believe that there are problems that are beyond the effectiveness of the individual measures or the individual operators. One would need to take a holistic approach that more clearly includes the interaction with other authorities and also with the regular education system, which has explicitly been outside the scope of the Swedish National Audit Office's review. During the previous parliamentary term, the Left Party has proposed to the Riksdag that the Government should set up an investigation to review the Swedish Public Employment Service's entire focus on Preparatory and Orientation Education, analyse the driving ideas behind the direction and review the possibilities of taking such measures more closely under the direction of the Swedish Public Employment Service instead of purchasing them. I believe that this is something that has proved to be still topical, and that is why we have proposed it again in this report. However, other parties are proposing to reject this. Rather, we see how the agreement between the government, the Centre Party and the Liberals should open up to more full-scale unwieldy privatisation, which is, of course, regrettable. It is particularly important that this should be done under an S-led government, also when we have the report of the major labour market inquiry, which states that research does not support the overall achievement of better results by private operators than by public authorities in terms of labour market services. Instead of seriously trying, on the basis of knowledge, experience and methods, to improve the work of the Public Employment Service, the way that the Government is now embarking on with the January Agreement risks multiplying in an uncontrolled way the problems that we have pointed out in our motion. I believe that this is a sad and irresponsible way of dealing with the important issue of labour market policy. I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-56	Mr President, I would like to Since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister, over 360 000 more people have the opportunity to go to work in the morning, or for the part in the afternoon. Unemployment is also falling in Sweden among newcomers. The time until half of the new arrivals are established has been considerably shortened. More are at work 90 days after completion of the establishment plan. Both the share of the population and the share of the labour force have increased in all groups. This is an extremely positive picture that I think is important to have with us now that we are going to talk about something that we are actually quite good at, even if we need to get even better. For the third time, the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed Preparatory and Orientative Education. It is one of Arbetsförmedlingen's biggest contributions, measured in both number of participants and cost. Actions shall be individually adapted, guided, rehabilitating or oriented. The activities are aimed at people who need to prepare for another labour market policy programme, education or work. This time, the Swedish National Audit Office has focused on Preparatory and Orienting Education within the establishment mission. The Swedish National Audit Office's criticism has already been that the Swedish Public Employment Service does not use the effort in a sufficiently accurate manner. They urge Arbetsförmedlingen to become better at controlling so that the effort is used where it is most needed. A prerequisite is that Arbetsförmedlingen monitors and analyses the efforts. Preparatory and orientation training is a variety of actions, and it is often the first initiatives in a chain of several that the newcomers participate in in order to strengthen opportunities for future jobs and self-sufficiency. Persons taking part in Preparatory and Orientative Training within the establishment are not a homogeneous group. They are individuals with different backgrounds and experiences and different educational and professional backgrounds. The actions offered are also extremely diverse, ranging from those for jobseekers who have less than six years of schooling to foreign-born academics and to starting-own education. Both individuals' conditions and efforts differ greatly, which is one of the reasons why it is not possible to draw any specific conclusions from the effectiveness of the intervention for individuals in the establishment mission. The new review does not make any recommendations, but the Swedish National Audit Office once again highlights how important it is that the Swedish Public Employment Service becomes better at monitoring and evaluating the training efforts and seeing how the participants are doing. In response to the recommendations in the previous reviews, the Government commissioned Arbetsförmedlingen to report by 22 February this year on how to improve monitoring, evaluation and analysis of Preparatory and Orienting Education. In Arbetsförmedlingen's report submitted on Friday, you can read how you have done and will do to meet the criticism and become better at assigning the right support at the right time. Among other things, Arbetsförmedlingen needs to define more clearly the objectives of the interventions. The labour market policy assessment needs to be better and clearer as the basis for the plan that the Employment Service, together with the job seeker, sets out, with clear objectives and can be linked to the actions to be taken by the job seeker. This increases the possibility of making the right effort. Labour market measures such as preparatory and oriented training must be flexible and change over time to respond to changes in the labour market. Support should, of course, be given according to the individual's needs. Mr President, I would like to I very much hope that the measures that the Employment Service now intends to take will counteract the risk that job seekers will be assigned to programmes only to be activated, as highlighted by the Left Party in its motion. If Arbetsförmedlingen becomes better at following up and analysing various measures so that we get the right support for the right person at the right time, I see no need to investigate the entire range of Preparatory and Orienting education. On the other hand, I believe that supply should be continuously adapted to the needs of individuals and to the labour market conditions and that we should phase out those measures that do not deliver the expected results. The goal of the establishment efforts is for people to be able to support themselves and understand and participate in society. The main thing is that we build the best possible support for those who are out of work. In addition, we must always use our tax resources efficiently. Therefore, these audits are important and can provide us with a good basis for future decisions and, as in this case, start an improvement work with the authorities. I began by describing the labour market situation as extremely positive. But we have great challenges, not least when it comes to getting more foreign-born women to work. Too many people stand far too far away from a job. More people need training to meet future labour market needs. As labour market policy assessments and interventions become better and more accurate, I am convinced that this will help to make it easier for more people to get and keep a job. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to call for the motion to be rejected and for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-73	Mr President, I would like to This week LO presented a study of cultural habits. It has been done in the past, and it was again stated that it is difficult to change habits and what it looks like when it comes to how we use culture. Today, the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis produced a similar report on how to meet the objectives of cultural policy. There too it is noted that it is difficult to break habits and to reach new groups. Particularly important to note when reading LO's analysis, I think this seems to be a legacy. Unfortunately, it is not surprising; we know that parents'habits often pass on to their children. Other things are also passed on from parents to children. We have clear social gaps and a clear social heritage in Sweden. It may turn out that a girl who really wants to bet on football does not do so because she is not expected to do so. It may appear in a guy who doesn't read, because there are no books in the home and no one expects him to read books. It may appear in a girl who grows up in honorary culture and is therefore not expected to shape her own life but to follow what the family, family and honor demand of her. Time and again we see these examples in Sweden, and we see how difficult it is to break this social heritage. In the report, the Committee on Culture deals with some motions on culture and leisure for children and young people. It is largely about this: How do we ensure that school, culture and leisure time become a place where young people meet new things? How do we ensure that one broadens one's views through a rich leisure life, a skilled school and a cultural life that is exciting and challenging? How do we make sure that you broaden your ability to do something other than what you have learned at home by meeting culture, exciting leisure time and a good school early? How do we ensure that long-term life is extended beyond what is expected to be done as a result of the social heritage by having a rich cultural and leisure life for children and young people? Mr President, I would like to For me as a Liberal, these are fundamental and important issues. Therefore, it is so incredibly crucial that we ensure that we have a rich cultural life, a rich leisure life and a really good school that reaches everyone and is blind to background. So we make sure that we can break social heritage and develop the individual based on her possibilities and will. Mr President, I would like to The limitations are not just about social habits or the relationships that we have in society. They are sometimes also about something completely different. That is why the part of the report dealing with the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is important. We shall ensure that children's rights are effectively implemented and made clearer in society. We shall fight child marriage, which should not be accepted in any way in Sweden, and ensure that the fight is also carried out in practice. We will make sure that the internet becomes a place where you develop and grow and find new exciting things. The net should not be anything that oppresses you, pushes you down or puts you down. We adults have a responsibility to ensure that children meet culture and leisure time. They will meet a rich cultural life and a rich leisure life, but what they encounter should also be good, fair and reasonable. However, children themselves must also be given the opportunity and tools to stand up for their rights gradually in line with their age. That is why, Mr President, I would like to conclude by calling for the reservation that the Liberals have in the report, reservation 1. It is about the target group adapting the information available on children's rights. It is not the case that children should have the sole responsibility for protecting their rights; it is mainly adult people who should do so. However, children also need to know their rights, and therefore the information provided on children's rights needs to be adapted so that they can gradually take greater responsibility for their own lives. We each have, as we grow and grow older, an increased responsibility for taking the opportunities. But adults, as well as children and young people around, must also make sure that there are opportunities to do so. Mr President, I would like to That is why, as I said, I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-82	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates are behind all our reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 2 and 5. We live in a time where we see ever greater contradictions, both here at home and in other countries. In that situation, we need the stories of culture more than ever. Art and culture help us to understand ourselves and the person we meet. They help us to relate to our time and manage our future. In this way, culture has never played as much of a role as it is now, and it is children and young people who must be at the centre. I came to think of a quote from Astrid Lindgren. I grew up in Vimmerby, and if you are, Astrid is always very close to you. When she gave her speech of thanks when she received the German bookstore's 1978 Peace Prize, she said, "We all want peace." Is there no way, then, that we can change before it is too late? That we can learn to renounce violence? Trying to be a new kind of people, that's all. But how would that happen, and if so, where should we begin? I think we need to start from scratch. With the kids. ..................................................... Children's and young people's growing-up conditions and meeting an inclusive society will only be possible through a cross-sectoral approach. Culture, education and sport are the tick that binds us people in Sweden and bridges borders. This is what I will always stand on the barricades for. We need to think cross-sectorally; cultural policy is not a pipe of its own. The Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society issues has written a very good report called Who are going? Social inclusion of young people in Sweden. I think we have just got it on our table in the Committee on Culture. It is therefore about young people's social inclusion in Sweden. Social inclusion has many dimensions, not least the concept of participation. Something in the report that has really caused me to react is a section from the focus group on rural areas and vulnerable areas. A young person says there: Many people in this part of the country – it's about Norrland – share an experience of national exclusion. It is about perceptions and feelings of state power opposing rural areas. This is often reflected in policy decisions and measures. I think this is worth thinking about, perhaps especially for those parties that have a government responsibility today. Fundamental rights and freedoms are never unconditional. Legislation and rules in society must, of course, be followed by everyone, and therefore prevention is an essential part of including all people in society. Every day we must protect and safeguard democracy, for which we have fought for so long and which is now celebrating 100 years. But the struggle has gone on much longer than that. Mr President, I would like to We see that there is a need for more information and opinion-forming aimed at young people who are at risk of getting married against their will. There is a need for easily accessible information material for newcomers on human rights and freedoms, democratic principles and the importance of gender equality, which are fundamental values in Sweden. I regret that the whole committee does not feel prepared to support an announcement to the government on this issue. All children and young people have the right to culture. A number of the articles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child are about making culture accessible. For example, it states that children and young people are entitled to a cultural offering that is created specifically for them. Creating school and cultural school are examples of this. But it is also a question of museums, regardless of their principals, being motivated to deepen cooperation with schools' teaching. I dare to say that Creative School was one of the biggest and most important cultural policy reforms of the Alliance Government. In contrast to the current government's efforts on free admission for adults at state museums, the Creative School reaches children and young people in the school environment where all children are present daily. The challenge is to nurture and develop the reform. The Moderates want this to happen by extending the reform to upper secondary school. We want to invest further in the Creative School, which is a state reform that we need to nurture and further develop. The government should therefore develop a strategy for even more schools to take part in the initiative. This could be done, for example, through an investigation that also reviews existing barriers. Creating school has been around for a number of years, and I think it is important to make an evaluation of it and examine how to get more children and more schools to take part in this important reform. It is also said that there are many municipalities that use Creative School but that there are also those who have not done so at some point. That is why we should look at the obstacles which prevent all children from being reached by this reform. The municipal cultural schools offer children and young people a wide, accessible and high quality activity, which is why it is very important for thousands of children and young people. Schools' activities are different because they are voluntary activities for municipalities. We Moderates protect municipal self-government, so we removed the one-year government grant. Instead, as you know, we add 5 billion extra to the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats in general state grants to the municipalities so that they can manage this money according to the conditions and needs of each municipality. Mr President, I would like to Children's and young people's organisations play an important role in the democratic process during childhood and for young adults. However, several of the motions in this report highlight the concerns that have been expressed for many years about fraud and irregularities in accounting for state subsidies. Effective use of the grants is of the utmost importance. Statskontoret showed in the 2017 government analysis that certain challenges remain even if the agency has further tightened the conditions for receiving state grants. Mr President, I would like to I'm looking forward to the final report of the investigation. It is essential and urgent to ensure that public funds go to activities that are compatible with the fundamental values of society.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-98	Mr President, I would like to The role of culture in the development and well-being of children and young people is invaluable. There are many areas where culture has a major positive impact on conditions, approaches and results. For example, culture and sport can increase the ability to concentrate, provide better study results and stimulate the creativity of the individual. When it comes to the mental illness of young people, cultural activities can be crucial for rehabilitation and recovery and for finding joy, inspiration and something to burn for. For me personally, music and outdoor life have been the key factors in my being able to stand here today at all. With them in combination with fantastic staff in youth psychiatry, I got both opportunities and breathing space to feel better. I'll be forever grateful for that. There are examples of many projects aimed at improving the health of children and young people through nature and culture. One example is the activity Adventure Day, which is available to help those who have experienced difficulties in life and offer young people 24 hours in nature. It is set up individually according to the conditions and wishes, and the idea is to arouse interest and contribute to more young people becoming aware of the opportunities of outdoor life. This experience is funded by, among other things, Friluftspromotion, and an important part of the work on mental illness in children and young people and the increased sedentary sitting can be to encourage and enable these types of initiatives and activities. Another example is the Swedish Tourist Association's initiative Höstlövet, which is aimed primarily at families with children who are not able to create natural experiences on their own and who here have the opportunity for a wonderful autumn break with experiences in nature. Culture on recipes or culture-supported rehabilitation is another example where experiences of or participation in cultural activities stimulate senses and create feelings of context and meaning. This in turn contributes to improved health, both physically and mentally and socially. The possibility of culture for children and young people should be a matter of course in everyday life, regardless of where you live. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to mention a few words about our reservation in this report. A survey conducted by the Youth Board in 2009 showed that there could then be more than 70 000 young people in Sweden who were subject to restrictions on choice of partner, usually due to the demands or expectations of the immediate family. The survey showed that it was the worst for young girls but that even boys could experience coercion and that they lacked the opportunity to choose partners. Some newer samples or surveys than those from 2009 are hard to find. There are no periodic studies to show how the situation is changing or evolving. However, we believe that it is important to get a grip on the situation in order to be able to take measures to prevent young people being forced to be with someone whom they have not chosen or otherwise restricted in their choices. Therefore, regular studies in this area are of the utmost importance. To choose who you want to live with is a human right. Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-106	Mr President, I would like to When we stand here today to debate the importance of culture and leisure for children and young people, it is not just about politics for me, it is directly personal. Much of my childhood revolved around music, dance, and reading. To me, the music and music were more than just pleasures. I was listening to the music and the books that I read became part of me and I was part of them. Even today when I see some book titles I can almost smell the books in Gävle city library, where I spent many hours. I was lucky to grow up in Gävle. Here the school and the city's wide cultural life were closely connected. For example, in the old industrial premises near Gävle fire station m in a recreation centre and had a close collaboration with Kulturhuset Lättings, which was located in the same premises. There were cultural practitioners who were also involved in our leisure activities. They taught us to photograph and develop photos. V i had to sharpen the pieces and make jewelry out of them. V i had to play theatre and paint. We had to test on cultural activities that for many of us would otherwise have been unthinkable. Mr President, I would like to Children's and young people's access to culture and leisure time is not something that comes of itself. Children and young people depend on their family situation. Economic assumptions, parents' work situation and parents' knowledge and experience of culture are of great importance. A conscious policy and a conscious will of politicians is needed to make culture a natural part of the growing up of more and more children and young people. Why, then, is it so important? Because access to culture and leisure is a measure of the well-being of a society. A society that sees the value of culture and is able to work to build a functioning infrastructure for culture has invested in the long term both in its population and in the development of society. This is precisely what culture and leisure for children and young people are all about: a lifelong investment. Culture can be likened to a vibrating force that creates added value and leaves its mark wherever it reaches. When children and young people are reached by the power of culture to free up creativity and imagination, it becomes an experience that they carry with them for the rest of their lives. Mr President, I would like to Reda n in the 1930s, Canadian neuropsychologist Donald Olding Hebb with his research could show that how we enrich our habitat also has great b interpretation of how we perform. H ans studies came to mint the concept. At the Centre for Culture and Health, which is an interdisciplinary node at the University of Gothenburg, researchers are currently working on Olding Hebb's studies. They look at the cellular and molecular levels at what happens and changes in the brain when people participate in physical and cultural activities. In one of the studies, dealing with the Sports Lift, the researchers could see that physical activity in middle school increased their performance in the national tests in math, Swedish and English. Another study showed how students at St. Botvid's upper secondary school in Botkyrka raised their grades when they were allowed to practice circuses. There is therefore clear scientific evidence of how important it is to bring cultural experiences and activities closer to children and young people. Mr President, I would like to It was therefore very unfortunate when the Moderates and Christian Democrats, with the support of the Swedish Democrats, received their budget bill with cuts of over 200 million dollars in the field of culture. It is in the light of these cuts that the Moderate movements about Creative School and the right of all children to culture become interesting. In the motion on Creative School, the Moderates write that extending Creative School to high school would mean that children and young people would be naturally reached in the environment where they are daily. The natural element of culture and aesthetics that the Moderates demand in this exercise has previously existed in high school, but it disappeared in 2011 when the Alliance government decided that the aesthetic subjects would no longer be mandatory. This decision alone has had major consequences for the presence of culture and aesthetics in upper secondary school. Furthermore, it has contributed to a skewed recruitment of cultural education and to the fact that it is difficult today to recruit teachers for aesthetic subjects around the country. Friks, the organisation for free artistic and craft-oriented educations, writes in a debate article: a subject that is also particularly important because society is increasingly characterized by image and symbol-based communication and citizens need tools to understand and not to be manipulated. I can only agree. Creative school is important, and that is why the Red-Green government chose to expand Creative School to include preschool. In this way, conditions were created for children of the very youngest ages to participate in professional artistic and cultural activities. To expand Creative School to include upper secondary school, as the Moderates want to do, however, becomes a bit like a patch-on-year measure. The Moderates had instead been able to vote in favour of the Red-Green Government's proposal to reintroduce the mandatory aesthetic subjects in high school when the decision was in Parliament in June 2018, but the proposal was rejected. If we go further and look at the exercise on the right of all children to culture, we see that the Moderates write: Here it will be really difficult to understand the large cut of 100 million that the M- and KD-budgets do at the cultural school. This cut limits the possibility for children, regardless of their living conditions and no matter where they live, to practice and experience culture. We Social Democrats believe primarily in general solutions and initiatives that reach all social groups. Many children and young people came to the cultural school and made it easier for cultural schools to invest in outreach activities to reach children and young people who would otherwise not find their way there. Instead, M's and KD's cutbacks create inequality in children's and young people's ability to practice culture. Another major cut in the M- and KD budget was free admission at state museums. Here, too, the motion's reasoning on making culture accessible to children and young people becomes interesting, as the abolition of free admission is rather counterproductive. Making our cultural institutions accessible to all, especially to children and young people, is not only about offering a cultural experience but also about forming and educating about our history and cultural context in order to create a better understanding of our time. It was against this background that the Red-Green Government introduced free admission to state museums, and it was against that background that we Social Democrats went to elections to extend free admission reform to regional museums. Here too M has missed that the realisation of all children's right to culture actually requires great efforts – such as free admission. Mr President, I would like to Children's and young people's access to culture and leisure is not something that comes of its own accord. We Social Democrats understand the need to move culture closer to the everyday lives of children and young people with clear political decisions. It is a conscious political ambition to create a more prosperous, equal and secure society. Astrid Lindgren once said, "All the great things that happened in the world happened first in someone's imagination." We Social Democrats want to make it possible for more children and young people to fantasize and be creative. With culture, aesthetics and literature, we want to give children and young people the tools to do great things for themselves and for society. Mr President, I would like to I call for all reservations to be rejected and support the committee's proposal.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-121	Mr President, I would like to I had to ask for a reply to try to correct some of what I heard from the speaker. I would like to talk about municipal self-government. In my ears, it will be very strange, Mr President, to talk about spending on children's and youth culture coming closer to children and young people in the municipalities about state subsidies – which are governed by Stockholm – talking about what should be done. We Moderates protect municipal self-government, and I do not really understand how Azadeh Rojhan Gustafsson thinks this is coming closer to children and young people about Stockholm talking about how the governing contributions should be used. In addition, it is a matter of one-year government grants, where municipalities must apply on the basis of exactly the pillars indicated by the grants. From the beginning, the idea was that state subsidies would lower the fee to the cultural school, but it turned out to be municipalities with a socio-economically rich population that could do so – because they had put themselves at a fairly high fee level. In my municipality of Flen, which has many socio-economically vulnerable areas and children from families that do not have money, however, we had settled at a very low level and therefore could not apply for the state grants. In addition to this, cultural workers employed on one-year grants are often given 40% services, which are valid for one year. Is it social democratic policy that people should not have long-term solutions when it comes to employment? That's exactly the opposite of what you say, isn't it, Azadeh Rojhan Gustafsson? Is municipal self-government important to the Social Democrats?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-126	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Lotta Finstorp! Of course, municipal self-government is important. In fact, it was in dialogue and dialogue with municipalities that this initiative was developed. Many municipalities welcomed the initiative, and many municipalities today regret its disappearance. In fact, the cultural school around the country has been able to develop its activities with the help of this money. It has been able to invest in outreach activities to reach children and young people who have not previously been reached by the activity. In my municipality of residence Upplands Väsby made clear investments for children with disabilities and to reach children and young people who had recently come to Sweden and did not know about the cultural school's activities. This money has thus been of great importance, and I believe that the cultural school also has strong popular support. It was seen not least yesterday, when ten thousand people handed over a list of protests to Minister of Culture Amanda Lind with the message that this is something we must continue to defend. It is of great importance around the country.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-129	Mr President, I would like to What worries me is that the Social Democrats do not believe that the local politicians will support the school of culture. The cultural school is a very good business. I visited the culture school in Katrineholm on Saturday. It is an open business that is very good, but there is a mistrust from the staff. The local politicians who come and think it is a good business naturally want to continue to invest in it. But there is also a myth in society about these state grants – the 100 million – that municipalities now have to close down their cultural schools. In fact, it is quite ugly to go with such untruths. There are municipal goals for the cultural schools, and those goals are to bring several children to the cultural school and to seek out new groups of children. Otherwise, the student base will soon die out. This is in the municipal cases. There are very few municipal politicians in this country who want the ruling contributions. Instead, they want the bag of money. The municipality of Katrineholm now receives an extra 11 million, which you can decide for yourself. The municipality can say: Here we need to put this money, and there we need to put a number of crowns. In Katrineholm's case, it is about 450 000 for 2018, which they had used in a good way to find new groups for their cultural school activities. 450 000 will be set in relation to the 11 million they receive extra. So I think it's going to be a strange discussion. Let our municipal politicians decide on municipal activities as far as possible! In addition, culture school is a voluntary activity, so not all municipalities have one. It would be good if all municipalities had it, but it is up to each municipality. So I think it's going to be a strange discussion. It is primarily about municipal self-government and whether you believe in your local politicians.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-133	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Lotta Finstorp, it is interesting to look at how different municipalities act on this issue. It's pretty telling that it's where the Moderates are in charge that you make cuts. There are cuts in spending on culture and on peoples' education – the kit that holds our society together. There are cuts in access to culture for children and young people. Again I mention Upplands Väsby. That is exactly what happened when the Moderates took over. Among the first things they did was to cut back on grants to the cultural school. But this was saved by making cleaning more efficient. How long should you live on the hope that there will possibly fall in some money here and there so that you can have a functioning cultural school for children and young people? No, unfortunately, this is a national matter. If we are talking about every child's right to culture, we must build infrastructure that maintains and makes culture accessible to all children and young people.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-136	Mr President, I would like to In the Centre Party's vision, everyone, regardless of their place of residence, background, disability or life situation, has the opportunity to participate in cultural life. It is a cultural life that holds both professionally caged culture and amateurs' creation. Sweden is becoming an increasingly multicultural country, and this creates many new opportunities. Culture strengthens self-confidence and makes more people take advantage of freedom of expression. This in turn strengthens participation and democracy in our society. In the Center Party we see how culture contributes to a deeper, humane and more open society. When we meet, share experiences and reflect together, we are also better equipped to meet challenges around us. We do not want Sweden to risk being split up by reducing the conditions for a good life in smaller towns. This is particularly important for our children and young people. In previous debates in this House, as many of the previous speakers have done, I have told you about my own experience of culture. I have often told you about the privilege I had to serve as a dance teacher, when I was not least able to work with children and young people during school hours. From the years when I worked professionally as a dance teacher, I have many examples of how dance, i.e. the cultural expression, made children and young people develop both as individuals and as a group. I have told you here in Parliament, for example, about the severely bullied guy, who became popular in the class through the dance. I've told you about the class, which had big problems with conflict in the group. Through the dance, they got a completely different atmosphere in the class. And I've told you about the middle school class that got to dance with a training school class. It led to new friendships and to the disappearance of fear of it differently, what you did not know. I could continue to talk about all the positive experiences I had to experience as a dance teacher and how the dance gave so much to many of the students and classes that I was privileged to work with. These are experiences that I know I share with many other cultural workers who have also had the privilege of working with children and young people. It is also an example of why Creative School is an incredibly important initiative. Creating school provides opportunities for students to meet professional cultural workers and take part in culture themselves and perhaps find their own cultural expression. I know that among the students I met many years ago there are those who have continued to have or have had a dancing life, one could call it, both at professional level and at leisure. Mr President, I would like to The digital society has become part of our everyday lives, not least part of our children's and young people's everyday lives. The digital society is visible not least in new, broad cultural forms such as computer games and Swedish music, which are spread and appreciated almost all over the world. With the opportunities provided by digitalisation, more people have the opportunity to find an expression that suits them. It can be about the possibility of taking part in cultural expressions that you do not otherwise find or have the opportunity to take part in their geographical proximity. With this creativity we grow as individuals but also as a society. The opportunity for our children and young people both to take part in culture and to create themselves through digital technology must therefore be exploited. We do not know today what new cultural expressions will emerge now that technology is developing even more. An open public approach is therefore needed so that a young person's activities in the net can be supported. Mr President, I would like to In the Center Party we see how culture contributes to a deeper, humane and more open society. When we meet, share experiences and reflect together, we are also better equipped to meet challenges around us. That is why we in the Center Party see it as so important that everyone, regardless of their place of residence, background, disability or life situation, has the opportunity to participate in cultural life that holds both professionally caged culture and amateurs' creation. It is especially important for our children and young people.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-146	Mr President, I would like to This report deals with widely differing sports in the field of culture and leisure for children and young people. I was going to focus on two different parts concerned: the Convention on the Rights of the Child and summer holiday activities. The Left Party has been pushing for a long time to strengthen children's rights. As the first party in the Riksdag, we exercised for a ban on child abuse, for example. It was already 1938. Unfortunately, it took another 20 years before it became a reality and the Riksdag was in on our proposal. Other examples that the Left Party has pushed for include the right to native language education and equal succession rights for all children. I think it is a good thing that both the Liberals and members of the Social Democrats are exercising on increased knowledge of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Then we will have the chance to have this debate today. However, the response from the committee shows that a great deal is being done, and has been done historically, in this area. We already have regulations to ensure that children are informed about the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is included in the curriculum for the school class and in the curriculum for civic education in comprehensive school. What is needed is teachers who prioritise it in their teaching. On the website minarattigheter.se you will find, for example, the target group-specific information that Liberals are calling for. There are also good examples of classroom teaching on these issues. It is therefore not more information brochures that are needed, but adults who value children's rights, take them seriously and prioritise them. Politicians at all levels need to work methodically to have a child rights perspective in their decisions. And in the budget work, we need to have children's best interests in mind. This is already being done in many municipalities and regions. I myself was part of a network of municipalities from Trelleborg in the south to Östersund in the north, which worked for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Sweden's municipalities and county councils, SKL, have also worked actively on the issue of developing support and disseminating knowledge. But even though we have all these possibilities and all this knowledge, Sweden has not come far enough in its efforts to implement the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The UN has repeatedly criticised us. That is why there are many of us who have high hopes that, when the Convention on the Rights of the Child becomes law in 2020, we will get a workshop and speed up these issues throughout the country. But in the Left Party, of course, we are not just waiting for it to happen. We used the entire last parliamentary term to bring through our budgetary cooperation with the government reforms that strengthened children's right to health, education and active leisure time. These are spectacle grants, free medicines and increased subsidies to sports associations and municipalities. On behalf of the Committee on Culture, Justice and Home Affairs, Article 31 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child becomes very important. It says that all children have the right to free time, play and rest and the right to participate in cultural and artistic activities. Unfortunately, it is too expensive for many families today to allow all children or even one child to participate in organised association activities. The Children's Ombudsman's report of last year found that four out of ten children in the survey sometimes or often cannot afford to do what they would like to do in their spare time. And many of the children who have active leisure time express that through their leisure activities they have gained increased confidence in their own ability and also in society at large. It is therefore extremely important that we have generous contributions from the state, region and municipality, which support the association life so that you can offer space for as many children as possible. But it is also important that there is an expectation and pressure on the associations to have as low fees as possible. Problems with overweight and sedentary behaviour in childhood create ill health in the long term. Early exclusion and child poverty significantly increase the risk of an adult life with major socio-economic problems. Today, around 145,000 children live in what is usually described by SCB as low income standards. The reforms that the Left Party pushed through last parliamentary term have indeed been important for those children. For example, they were free swimming school for six-year-olds, free holiday activities, cheaper cultural school and free public transport during the summer holidays. This made it possible for more people to fill their leisure time with organized activities, regardless of their parents'finances and holiday opportunities. It is so important to have something to tell you about when you get that difficult question at the start of school: ..................................................... Unfortunately, with the support of the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and Christian Democrats chose to remove several of the contributions to the municipalities. Then the motion requests we have heard here today echo from the same parties empty. Reality is very tough for many of these children. I've met children who want to go to school to be guaranteed a proper meal even though they didn't need it for their grades. In each class there are children who try to hide their situation by saying that they do not want to join activities after school or who report sick when it is time for a school trip with a mandatory lunch and requirements for their own sports equipment. This is what the Swedish class society looks like from a children's perspective. I now hope that the government, with its new partners, will show that they take children's rights to meaningful leisure time seriously. Christer Nylander of the Liberals used to sound like an old-fashioned social liberal in his speech. He showed an understanding of how divides are inherited and restricts children's opportunities. Now it's up to you to prove it. Please read the Mayflower report Others think I'm strange, and then came back in the amending budget with the reforms for which the Left Party was fighting: 199 million for summer holiday activities, 100 million for cultural schools and 350 million for free trips in public transport for school pupils. There is little money in the state budget but extremely accurate in this context. Perhaps reading might even give some thought to the absurdity of introducing market rents and removing the defence tax when there is so much left to do for children's growing-up conditions in this country. It is reforms that you intend to implement that involve great steps away from the idea of equality. For the Left Party, it is obvious that we must have an equal society in order to offer children a safe and developing childhood and belief in the future. It is by concrete action that we show that we take the Convention on the Rights of the Child seriously. Mr President, I would like to On this basis, I support the committee's proposal for a decision, which rejects all reservations.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-165	Mr President, I would like to I would like to announce that I may be slightly overtaking my speaking time. We are debating culture and leisure for children and young people. In June 2014, the Swedish Parliament decided on a new goal for all government decisions and actions concerning young people aged 13-25: All young people must have good living conditions. I like that expression. Unfortunately, this does not apply to everyone. That is to say, the goal is for everyone aged 13 to 25, that all government decisions and actions related to them should have as their goal that everyone should have good living conditions. But the brutal reality is that too many children and young people lack good living conditions, power to shape their lives and influence social development. In line with the State objective, a cultural policy objective is also to pay particular attention to children's and young people's right to culture. That objective is, of course, also a valid one. As a Christian Democrat, I am very touched by the fact that there are so many children who are not reached by culture for, among other reasons, economic or social reasons, or because they are not well, quite simply. For although incomes have risen significantly in the 21st century and many families have improved financially, it is far from all households that have benefited from the economic upturn. In fact, inequality has increased in the 21st century, and this affects children. It is reported that nearly a quarter of a million children in Sweden – 250 000 children – live in families with income below the limit defined by the EU as poverty. The victims are children of young parents, children of single parents, children of certain urban suburbs and children of foreign origin. This is Sweden today. The worst thing that can happen is that we politicians at the national level do not take it very seriously and see this situation as normal. Mr President, I would like to There are several reasons for this vulnerability. Long-term unemployment of parents has tripled over the last six years. Other reasons are the parents' social resource weakness and mental illness and an increased number of divorces. These are children who are at increased risk of developing mental problems, early in crime or exclusion. For children in families who receive income support, it is certainly not obvious to be able to afford gymnastic clothing, membership of sports club, tuition fees to cultural school, school trips or to engage in activities after school with classmates. We from the Christian Democrats have proposed a leisure allowance of SEK 3 000 which we introduced during the Alliance but which was then removed by the left-wing government. We want to introduce it again. It is quite perplexing that the present formation of government, supported by the Left Party, the Liberals and the Center Party, does not see the value of leisure money. It is aimed at children who attend grades 4 to 9 and is SEK 3,000. The family should have had support for a long period of time. Then you can apply for 3 000 SEK for these activities or things that you need for sports in your spare time. I do not understand why every time I talk about this, the government side is so negative that it is given an opportunity to get that money tax-free. It is not just about the financial vulnerability of people. It is often associated with psychological b ekymes. Mental problems are 70 percent more common and risk factors for ill health 80 percent more common among socially vulnerable children than with other children. Before I got the privilege of being elected here in the Swedish Parliament, I worked at the Gothenburg Rescue Mission. It is an idea-based organisation, part of civil society. A job there is called Solrosen. It's about children who have a relative who's in prison. There the children are allowed to talk, put away the debt they have often accumulated and meet others in the same situation. There are 30 000 children in Sweden who have a parent in prison or outpatient care. At Solrosen, the Rescue Mission works on the basis of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, based on Article 3: The best interests of the child must come first in all decisions concerning children. Mr President, I would like to We know that culture means a lot to create compassion, insight and education. We know what culture means to keep the principles of democracy alive. It is therefore deeply tragic that so many children do not have access to culture, good living conditions, the power to shape their lives and influence social development. What can we do? I have already mentioned leisure money, but it is rejected by the government side with the argument I hear every time, namely that one wants to see general welfare. I've heard it expressed here again today. It's just that the so-called general welfare doesn't help the most vulnerable. When the state and the municipalities are in a state of hands, it is civil society that is pulling out. Heroic efforts are being made by social security and school staff around the country. But that is not enough! Without civil society, we cannot cope with welfare. Civil society is the part of society where people help each other without the involvement of the public, state or municipalities. One could say that civil society is building the future of Sweden. That is why the reintroduction of the right to deduct gifts to non-profit organisations is so important. Mr President, I would like to I find a number of good intentions and proposals, including investigations, in the report. These include the work on the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which the Christian Democrats have fought for too long, and the work to prevent young people from getting married against their will. It is about the work of safeguarding the democratic dialogue, including on the Internet. But unless vulnerable children get redress and a fair chance in our society, the result will be a large number of children who are not reached by culture, do not have good living conditions and do not have the power to shape their lives and influence social development. That is not what Sweden and the Christian Democrats want to see.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-181	Mr President, I would like to During the years I have been on the Culture Committee with Roland Utbolt, we have debated these issues a number of times, but not once during these debates has Roland Utbolt managed to present the facts – figures – on what the extracurricular money has actually done. If you want to reintroduce something that has existed before, but cannot present the difference it made, it is no wonder that many parties question that priority. Perhaps it is time to present those figures today. A general well-being, that is, the efforts we have made to reduce the fees in the associations and free activities, helps all children, not only the children who receive support, the group that Roland Utbolt is looking for. If all children in the residential area have access to free or cheap activities, they can meet and create the positive emotions that Roland Utbolt so nicely describes. Anyone who listens to the debate can see that me and Roland Utbolt share many values. We are actually talking about the same things, but we come to such different conclusions. It is unfortunate that the Christian Democrats in their budget, together with the Moderates, landed in removing the targeted initiatives with free summer holiday activities and free public transport that directly reach these children who would otherwise not be able to have an active summer vacation by getting to activities or summer jobs. There have been tremendously appreciated efforts. The municipalities have been grateful for the money, and this also applies in particular to the families and children who have taken part in the money. Why doesn't Roland Utbolt want to see that side?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-185	Mr President, I would like to We have debated these issues on a number of occasions, not least leisure money. We speak a little the same language each time. That's interesting. It is a commitment to people who live in vulnerability. As far as leisure allowances are concerned, I will give Vasiliki Tsouplaki at least one figure that I bear in mind, namely that 74% of our 290 municipalities have paid the leisure allowance to those who applied for it. Leisure money is given to things where there is a receipt, so it becomes an accounting in the whole. One quarter of the 290 municipalities have not made use of leisure allowances. There's some numbers. There is an expression that we sometimes use, namely intervention, to make targeted efforts. It is interesting because they are often accurate. In upper secondary school, for example, interventions can be made against special groups, perhaps in support of quitting smoking. I'm saying the leisure money could be called an intervention. It is clearly aimed at the most vulnerable, namely families who have received subsistence support for six of the last 12 months. It's a real intervention.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-188	Mr President, I would like to The investments I am talking about, such as summer holiday activities, last for the ten weeks when many associations do not have operations. It is a good thing that you can participate in the association life. I am not fundamentally opposed to leisure money, but I think there are other ways of using the resources better to reach more children. During the summer, many associations have no activities, precisely because many children go on vacation, and therefore trainings, comics and so on are cancelled. The idea is that the children should be free. But for the kids who have it tough, there's nothing else to go to. That is why the summer holiday activities that the Left Party, together with the government, has invested in have been so extremely important. They have been close in the residential areas, and the children have been able to get to them in an easy way without having to get a ride from the parents. The 145 000 children I mentioned are children in families with low income standards. This is not just the case for children whose parents receive support. There are many more children who are having a tough time. For many families, summer is about ten weeks when children are not fed at school. It is an enormous extra expense, especially if there are many children in the family. Only that cost is burdensome during the summer. That is why the targeted contribution to summer holiday activities has been so successful. I am pleased that, after a lot of nagging, I have now received a figure, namely that 74% of the municipalities use the leisure allowance. But I want to know how many children have been reached, not just how many municipalities have paid out money. What has this meant in practice for children? I would like to know this in order to be able to wholeheartedly support the fact that it was a good initiative from the Christian Democrats. I believe much more in the targeted efforts made by the Left Party and the Government last parliamentary term, and I regret that the Christian Democrats have chosen to remove them.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-192	Mr President, I would like to I'll have to make you the answer, but I promise I'll get back to you. I'm going to go into the National Board of Health and Welfare's statistics to see how many children have been reached by the money, and Vasiliki Tsouplaki will get clear information. As I said, we come up with a few different solutions, but they are all legitimate. I now notice that Vasiliki Tsouplaki is beginning to soften a little when it comes to leisure money. It's like a small doorway. A little glip starts to open anyway. Can you bring along the Social Democrats, Vasiliki Tsouplaki, I am convinced that liberals and center-partisans are up to this. I know they've done it before, and I think they're ready. It is the Social Democrats who may need to be persuaded a little. Since you're starting to soften up a little bit, I have a little bit of hope, and you should have-- that's the last thing that abandons man. If we eventually get the government power, we're going to re-enter the leisure money. Until then, I will try to work on the government side to get it to agree to this.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-194	Mr President, I would like to I got the numbers, Roland Utbolt. In 2014, SEK 40 million was paid out from the state. As Roland Utbolt said, a quarter of the municipalities did not pay out this money. But the municipalities that paid out money paid out just under $2 million. Gothenburg, which received the most, received 4 million but paid out 190 000 SEK. In 2015, 80 million were paid out. It was just before the red-green government completely abolished this. Unfortunately, there is no data on how that money came to be used, but its use in 2014 was ominous. Roland Utbolt! 2 million out of 40 million were used. With these numbers, which you have now received from me, do you really think this is the right bet?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-198	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I think it's the right bet, Azadeh Rojhan Gustafsson. I also think that the municipalities should step up in this effort. It is important not to look down on the people who have now received this grant of 3 000 SEK, which I do not think Azadeh Rojhan Gustafsson does. This contribution may have made the big difference for them. It may have meant that you could go on a school trip. This may have made it possible to pay a membership fee to the cultural school or sports association. For many people, $1,000 is a huge amount of money, and it is possible to use it in a way that gives children opportunities. I don't think you should look down on it. I do not think, as I said, that Mr Rojhan Gustafsson is looking down on these people either, but I would urge you to think a little bit about what happened to those who received this contribution. I think this is the right initiative, and I think that the municipalities should get their act together. It may also take some time for such a reform to start and settle down properly.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-201	Mr President, I would like to Roland Utbolt! It was M's and KD's budget that went through here last time with the support of the Swedish Democrats. Previously, I had a change of line with Lotta Finstorp, which made it very clear that when we introduced these initiatives at the cultural school, we restricted the autonomy of municipalities. That is also the argument that you are constantly using, including the Christian Democrats, when you talk about the culture school and its efforts. However, spending 120 million – 40 million in 2014 and 80 million in 2015 – on a targeted venture that has not benefited anyone and sending the money to municipalities that do not even use it is clearly not wasting money. Would not this 120 million have been more useful in the cultural school, which could have used them for outreach? Wouldn't they have done better in an effort to continue free admission? Now, however, the free entrance will remain, with the formation of the government that has taken place. Isn't the general bet reaching everyone? It's not about looking down on any group. It is about making culture, leisure activities and associations accessible to everyone. One should not only invest in a small group in society, which also has a stigmatising effect.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-204	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions, Azadeh Rojhan Gustafsson! When it comes to the culture school and the 100 million that we brought down there, it is quite clear that the municipalities are responsible for the cultural school's activities. This is a short-term solution of 100 million for a year. We don't know what's going on next year and so on. I don't know how this government will deal with this 100 million. Azadeh may be able to tell us whether it will be possible to re-establish this 100 million. It's a little unclear to me. The municipal grants paid out of the plot have increased and are now at 3 1⁄2 billion, which can be used by the municipalities just as they want. This means that those responsible for the cultural school can use money to strengthen it. I wonder what they have been doing all these years with regard to the cultural school, given the ingenuity that has now existed with this 100 million. I agree that some things have been done for that money. But what did the municipalities do earlier? What responsibility was taken? And how do you plan to do that in the future when this money is over? After all, it's just one year's stakes. The municipalities are responsible for the cultural school, and they should invest more in culture as a whole. Those of us who understand the value of culture also understand that the municipalities, which are responsible here, must take a huge responsibility for culture also financially. This applies, among other things, to the school of culture.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-207	Mr President, I would like to Now it's about a Swedish success story, namely folkbildning. I think Oscar Olsson was one of the first to start a study circle in the early 1900s, inspired by Swedish and Danish thinkers and social engineers around the country who wondered if we should not try to solve problems together and try to learn more together. They created that Swedish model, which has become so important, with an association life that gathers people who think together about what to learn and how to learn and then also learn together. It is a story in which the sobriety movement, the labour movement, the free churches, the sports movement and many other movements created their opportunities to learn more about society, partly to take power and democracy, and partly to take power over their own lives. There was a cultural development and learning. A reading people wanted to take power. At the same time they created a deep trust, a social trust, a social kitt, a social community between people, which became very important for Sweden's development in the long term. The trust in each other and in the common that is created by people joining up in associations and learning things became very important for Sweden and has been an important explanation for the fact that Sve Rige has gone strong in the last 100 years, from Oscar Olsson to people who, in voluntary collaboration, ensured that the migration of refugees 2015, which the authorities had difficulty coping with, after all, was solved, largely through volunteer work and public education activities. It became an important part of civil society and also a learning organisation. This creates trust and social capital, while increasing individual independence and freedom. This was a success story that we also benefit greatly from today, but which must not be taken for granted. There are people who do not feel the need to solve their situation but perhaps feel that someone else should solve the problems instead – the state or someone else. There may be a desire to take it a little slow and not always have to learn new things and be curious about what you don't know very well. There is a struggle about our time – you might rather watch TV or do something other than gather in associations and work on. Furthermore, there is a risk that bureaucracy and administration will put an end to the interest in spending that extra hour on cashiership, as well as the risk that the state will see that what associations and peoples have created is so good that they try to use it for what they want from the state. The state can then start with targeted rather than general state grants and short state grants instead of long-term funding and start to look increasingly instrumentally at peoples' education and civil society, rather than seeing that they have a value in themselves. The risk of success story is that one becomes so good at solving problems in society that the state tries to use it for its own purpose and thereby extinguishes interest and commitment and risks undermining the whole idea. There are challenges for peoples' education and civil society, Mr President: finding the balance between free and voluntary and the delivery society expects for the money it gives. There I see, and also the Folkbildningsrådet in its budget base, a tendency that the state increasingly has a short-term, instrumental ordering attitude, instead of seeing the long-term general one that has been the basis of the success story. There is a need to safeguard the specificity and to strike a balance between free and voluntary, on the one hand, and the needs of the public, on the other. Support for peoples' education, Mr President, should be characterised by a long-term perspective. For this reason, I am in favour of reservation 5. Folkbildning has been a success story for over a hundred years. It has proved to be very strong and capable of delivery, even when Sweden has faced a crisis in recent years. That power is still needed in the future, but it must be cared for very tenderly. It must not be too instrumental, too much order from the state and too short-term. We must preserve and protect the specific nature. The right balance in terms of freedom and volunteers must be found.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-217	Mr President, I would like to In my county of Dalarna we have, as in most counties, a number of folk high schools. Some are run by the region and some of the various associations or foundations. They have different specialisations in terms of course selection. It can be handicrafts in Leksand, music at Sjövik, sign language environment at Västanvik or general courses in aesthetics, entrepreneurship or outdoor activities at Brunnsvik, in Mora or Malung or at Fornby. Of course, there are also courses focusing on skiing and folk music in this sports and cultural landscape. At Mora folkhögskola you also have a very special two-year training in adapted IT for people with intellectual disabilities – a course that has attracted great national interest. Mr President, I would like to The training journey is lifelong, and it takes different forms in different stages of life. From my own time as a teacher, I can see that students who have been tired of school and dropped out of upper secondary school studies have been able to continue their studies at folk high school, who have prepared them for further education or led them into working life. Just as important as studies is that it contributes to personal development and increased civic commitment. This strengthens democracy. Folk education is an important part of our society. Folkhögskolan and study associations carry out different activities, but on the same value basis. Folkbildningen applies a pedagogy that strengthens self-confidence in order to strengthen the ability to perform and understand what place you can take in society. It is not, Mr President, a direct task for education and training to increase the number of people involved in the labour force or to increase the levels of income in society. However, both income from work and employment can still be the means to achieve other goals, such as being able to influence one's life situation. The study associations reach many different groups in society. There are participants of all ages, from young people to seniors. There are many indications that the activities of study associations and circles have a value for the people involved and that the study circle contributes in different ways to the four objectives of the state grant. It is about strengthening and developing democracy, enabling a greater diversity of people to influence their life situation and creating commitment to participate in social development, smoothing educational gaps and raising educational and educational attainment levels in society, and broadening interest in increasing participation in cultural life. Study circles and learning groups are a school in and about democracy. They develop and inspire individuals to influence their lives, provide new knowledge and create opportunities to exercise cultural interests for people all over the country. Mr President, I would like to In accordance with the Alliance Government's bill Alla's knowledge – everyone's education, Statskontoret was tasked with evaluating the state contribution to folk education, which is divided into 10 student associations and 154 folk high schools and Sisu Sports Educators. The evaluation was presented in 2018, and Statskontoret's main impression was very positive. At folk high schools, participants gain increased self-confidence, new perspectives and better study results than previously achieved, according to the evaluation. At the same time, there are areas for improvement. Among other things, it is about how folk high schools should reach outside their traditional target groups. For study associations, reaching people who are not already organized is a challenge. This requires associations to develop partly new ways of working. Statskontoret's evaluation also saw that the study associations have limited incentives to invest resources in broadening recruitment to operations. The study associations do not control the work of the individual study circles. Instead, the activities are based on the needs and wishes of the participants. There is a great measure of trust. At the same time, the study associations should be able to ensure that the activities are of good quality for adult education and that the resources are used for activities that contribute to the four objectives of the state grant. Statskontoret was also tasked with proposing a model for how public education can be evaluated in a more regular and systematic way. We Moderates believe that the intentions of the alliance government's bill should be pursued in the long term to safeguard the specific mission and methodology of peoples' education. This is particularly important in a changing educational landscape that is increasingly characterised by new technologies. Activities can also be developed to better respond to current needs. Mr President, I would like to I commend Mr Oderatian's reservation No 2.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-229	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 3 and 6 in this report to be approved. Otherwise, I would also like to declare our support for our other reservations. Folkbildning is one of our committee's largest areas of preparation in terms of both the allocation of appropriations and the number of people employed. Key I'd say it's a nuclear tart. Folkbildning – a tree with deep historical roots since Grundtvig's days and social conservative aspirations for increased community and poorer opportunities for education and personal development – has been an important basis for democratisation processes. It is a tree along with the regular educational system that carries many branches and fruits for social fellowship and the desire to learn. Folkbildning, with its non-authoritarian approach between leaders and participants in courses, schooling, vocational training and study circles, also today plays an important role in lifelong learning and in raising our collective skills. Not infrequently it also happens in beautiful, stimulating residential environments, where you create bonds and memories for life. Many of us have a relationship with folk education. It could be a folk high school, or a study association. Not rarely are the positive memories of progress. It is precisely this that I have just identified that we see as the unique position and self-worth of peoples' education, well worth protecting, caring for and quality-proofing. It is free and voluntary in its soul and has four essentially good aims: to support activities aimed at increasing participation in democracy and commitment to society; to contribute to enabling people to influence their life situation and to create commitment to social development; to contribute to smoothing educational gaps and to increasing participation in cultural life. No one questions the objectives in essence; however, after a long period of review and dialogue with stakeholders, and after Statskontoret's extensive report, we have, like Statskontoret, stated that in a number of areas reforms are needed to achieve these good basic objectives in truth and in action. It is these reform needs that underpin the reservations we are supporting today. Mr President, I would like to Let me guide us through some of these and start with the question of grades. Participants who have studied for higher education qualifications in adult education cannot be sure that the studies at folk high school are assessed fairly when they are admitted to various university programmes. The quota system in the admission process means that if not enough people from the same quota apply for training, no one will be accepted from this quota. If you are not looking for enough people in the population education ratio, those who have studied at folk high school have no chance of being accepted on the basis of their folk high school qualifications. This is, of course, problematic for those who have studied in the field of education. Therefore, we suggest that students who have studied at folk high school should be able to request grades equivalent to those given if they have studied at Komvux. Mr President, I would like to There are also a number of different criteria for an aspiring folk high school to be eligible for state grants. Among other things, the activities of the aspirating folk high school must be consistent with the purpose of the state's support for public education, have a good knowledge of the form of education and be democratically governed. One of the demands, which unfortunately rhymes badly with the purpose of democracy, is that in order for an aspirating folk high school to receive state aid, the school must first interact with an existing folk high school through a kind of sponsor system. In order for the Swedish Folkbildningsrådet to approve an applicant organisation as an independent folk high school and recipient of a state grant, one of the conditions is that the activities must cover at least 500 weeks of participation per year in cooperation with an existing folk high school during the last two years before the year of application. The state contribution is not increased when there is an increased number of approved actors. This means that existing folk high schools increase competition for funds if they assist an aspiring folk high school with establishment. There is therefore a general lack of incentives to establish cooperation with an aspiring folk high school, which risks hampering development in the field of education. New skilled actors who want to mediate education in the spirit of folk high school find it difficult to do this outside existing public education institutions. In 1991, when the peoples' education system was reformed, the government stated that the general course would form the basis for the activities of folk high schools and would amount to 15 per cent of the total state-funded activity. For many years, the proportion has been considerably higher and is now between 40 and 50 per cent. It is of course a good thing that many are given the chance to study a general course, but at the same time it partly means that the education system compensates for the regular educational system's shortcomings. You push structural problems on other actors, so to speak. We do not believe that the main role of education in modern society should be a komvux light, but that a greater focus should be given to the specific courses. The general course can and must complement the regular education system by providing an educational method that suits some people well, but the general course should not be the main activity of the folk high school. This is why, instead of a minimum objective of at least 15% general course, we should establish a new objective that general course should represent just about 15% of the activities of folk high schools. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to comment on the structure. Today, the Folkbildningsrådet decides on the allocation of funds to public education actors and conducts an audit and follow-up of the correct use of funds. Although the Folkbildningsrådet has its own control systems to ensure that tax funds are used correctly, we feel that for several reasons it is problematic and alien in the Swedish administrative and administrative tradition that an organisation consisting of the actors who themselves conduct public education activities benefits and follows up the use of funds within their own member organisations. We therefore propose that a new player who is independent of the activities supported should be given the task of allocating the funds to peoples' education. It should be examined whether and how a newly created or existing authority can manage the funds allocated to adult education. This authority should also be given the task of reviewing the possibilities for improved follow-up of adult education activities and a greater degree of supervision without adversely affecting the freedom of adult education. With this combined quality assurance of peoples' education, we have the opportunity to maintain the free soul of peoples' education in a sustainable and long-term manner, while reforming what is not satisfactory today in order to preserve what is good and thereby increase the legitimacy of the people's education system for tomorrow.
i-8YM3654BfLWWLvQHbBww4p	An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. I would therefore like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi and Minister Ann Linde, all from the Social Democrats. Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-242	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Ylva Johansson. For decades Sweden has worked hard and intensively to ensure that the Swedish labour market is a safe place for everyone. We have ensured from employers, trade unions and legislators that the Swedish labour market is as secure as it is ever possible. Nevertheless, this week we can see that new figures show that January this year is the darkest month of January in over 20 years, with more than nine deaths at workplaces around Sweden. The harsh result after four years of Social Democratic government is that we have seen a steady increase in the number of fatal workplace accidents since 2015. When does the government intend to fill its rhetoric about a zero vision with a content that actually makes a difference?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-246	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. This is incredibly serious. So far this year, 12 people have lost their lives at work. They are relatives who are not allowed to see their loved one come home and children who are not allowed to see their parent come home. These are the most important issues. Much was done during the last term of office: new resources for the Swedish Work Environment Agency, 100 new inspectors, a new work environment strategy, a newly started authority and a new cooperation between authorities. But it is quite clear that more needs to be done. Therefore, I meet on Monday invited from the industries that are most affected. It is both employers and trade unions as well as expert authorities, and we will listen to them before we take new steps to ensure that we can reverse developments. I can assure Erik Bengtzboe that this is one of my absolute priorities. I note that, when we adopted the zero vision, the Moderates voted 'no' and have also opposed the efforts already made in the field of health and safety at work.
i-EsWvGEyHAy3JFTdsZVVYkz	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ylva Johansson, for the answer! Talking about a zero vision is easy. Filling it with a content that really makes a difference seems to be all the more difficult for the current government. What worries me is that the more times Ylva Johansson takes the initiative on this issue and the more times it is claimed that this is a priority and the most important thing that can happen, the more fatal accidents increase. Perhaps it is time for the government to give priority to its policy and realise that it has prioritised errors over the past four years?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-253	Madam President, I would like We took over after a bourgeois government that had made large, dramatic cuts in work environment work, fired many inspectors and closed down the entire Work Life Institute. We have reversed this trend. We have the resources in place at the Swedish Work Environment Authority, we have a new authority in place that has work environment knowledge and we have been able to do more things and efforts in the labour market. But more needs to be done, and I am the guarantor that this will happen.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-255	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Ylva Johansson. The government criminalized terrorist trips after all IS terrorists had completed their journey. Today, the government is presenting a criminalisation of participation in the Islamic State, which will enter into force when the state has been defeated and ceased. At the same time, it is reiterated by government representatives that the work of the Red Green Government against terrorism is highly prioritised. From Sweden, about 300 individuals have travelled to Syria and Iraq to support the Islamic State. 150 of them have come back and live here today, but none of them are in jail or in prison. Madam President, I would like I know the answer to my question, but I'm not sure if the government does, Ylva Johansson. How many of the 300 IS terrorists will be brought to justice by the new Participation Act, in view of what they have done in Syria and Iraq?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-259	Madam President, I would like These are terrible crimes that IS is guilty of. It has been important to give priority to a criminal person who travels there but also to activities and participation in terrorist activities. Today, the government is presenting a legislative referral which criminalises, with high criminal value, participation in or association with terrorist organisations. I expect that there will be significant consequences with the new legislation. The legislation we have previously adopted has already been applicable and is applicable in the courts today. As the Member of Parliament knows, it is the government that makes proposals for laws, the parliament that makes laws and the judges and the courts that interpret them.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-262	Madam President, I would like Then it's what I feared. The government has no idea. It is therefore zero people who will be subject to criminal liability with the policies and legislative proposals that the government has presented since entering Rosenbad in 2014. Zero people will be hit by what you have done, Ylva Johansson. Are you proud as a minister in the Red Green Government when you release 150 IS terrorists free on our streets and do not deny those who remain in Syria and Iraq to come back to Sweden as a Swedish citizen for the rest of their lives? I think it's shameful.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-264	I would like to remind the honourable Member that we are not dubbing each other in the speaker's seat.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-265	Madam President, I would like It seems that Adam Marttinen is a bit ill-informed. The new legislation that the previous government, in which I was involved, has produced is effective, works and is now being used in the courts. We are presenting a new legislative referral today which will result in new, very sharp legislation with a penalty value of up to six years for those involved in or associated with terrorist organisations. However, it is important to keep a right: we make proposals, the parliament makes laws, but the courts interpret them.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-267	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Shekarabi. The Minister has recently been on the offensive against the gambling industry. There is, unfortunately, no doubt that in the gaming industry there are certain deviations among some companies. The Minister himself has pointed out that aggressive marketing is also often targeted at the weakest in society. People who are caught by gambling risk having to go from house and home because gaming companies put the revenue higher than the ethics. At the same time, we see that the gaming companies can make profits in the multimillion-dollar class. The fact that the Minister is speaking out against these rejections is a good thing. My question to the Minister is: Is the Minister ready to take harder action through talks with the more problematic players and perhaps even review the legislation?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-270	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen for this important issue. The answer to the question is yes. Together with this House, we have ensured that the Swedish state has regained control of the Swedish gambling market after two decades of unregulated market. Now we shall see to it that these laws are complied with. We will ensure that all companies comply with Swedish marketing legislation. Supervision needs to be improved and strengthened. We have today made a decision on this to the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Swedish Gambling Authority, but more needs to be done. The signal from the government to the gaming companies was very clear in connection with the meeting two weeks ago. They have until 31 March to act with self-regulation, which represents a significant change in the advertising of gambling. If we do not get a noticeable change, we are starting the work and process of tightening up legislation on gambling advertising, both in terms of aggressiveness and the amount of advertising. This is extremely important for the protection of Swedish consumers. And the companies should know that it is now Swedish law that applies and not Maltese law.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-272	Madam President, I would like Tens of thousands of people, not least the elderly, have been driven to the Kronofogde by the Social Democratic A-lotteries. The Minister's party has aggressively recruited subscribers to the lotteries through its own membership register and dark senders in advertisements. The party has also marketed the tickets with credit, which is illegal for other gaming companies. At the same time, the Social Democrats have earned hundreds of millions of dollars. Will the Minister act as hard on the A-lotteries and the special legislation in place for the A-lotts as against the digital gaming operators?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-273	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen can get this answer: Yes, the parliament and the government have already changed the legislation and tightened up the rules for credit, which means that it is a much more restrictive approach for this particular lottery company too. I'm very proud of this. The rules shall apply to everyone, including the company that has links to my own party. There should be clear restrictive rules regarding marketing and other behaviour of gaming companies. We'll make sure of that.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-274	Madam President, I would like There are many of us, Ylva Johansson, who remember the job coaches and the establishment pilots from Reinfeldteran who among other things attracted economic criminals, hypnosis scammers and in some case suspected terrorist financiers. With the 73-point agreement, this fiasco approach in Arbetsförmedlingen will unfortunately not only be revived but run as a full-scale experiment, also in a situation where a giant notice has been placed and the staff at Arbetsförmedlingen are under severe pressure. I have noted that in interviews Ylva Johansson has stated that she personally guarantees that the implementation of this chaos policy will not lead to chaos. However, the Minister has not given any signals that the notice should not have to lead to mass redundancies – on the contrary – nor has it provided any other information on how this experiment should be carried out in the middle of a forced cut-back in the agency. I therefore wonder what the Minister's message is, both to the employees of the Employment Service and to those in need of the Employment Service services.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-278	Madam President, I would like There shall be no experiments with Arbetsförmedlingen. It is an extremely important activity that has a central role to play in the proper functioning of the labour market. That is why we need to think things through carefully before implementing reforms. It is unfortunate that we are now in a situation in which a poorly thought-out budget has been passed in Parliament and is now in force, a budget that involves considerable savings in labour market policy to finance major tax cuts for others. Unfortunately, this is a situation which has been brought about by the decision of the Riksdag and which must be dealt with by the authorities and by the government. This is a bad start for starting a reform process. But I take responsibility for continuing the reform work. We're not having an experimental workshop. We're not going to open up to rogue actors. We will ensure that we have only serious actors and a new role for Arbetsförmedlingen, which will mean a major change. I hope, however, that this will mean a clearer and more specific task, in which the most important task of the Employment Service will be to be really good at making labour market policy assessments.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-280	Madam President, I would like I have met the trade unions at Arbetsförmedlingen, and their picture is consistent that there is great uncertainty about where the agency is going. It is a tremendous frustration at incompatible demands and an understandable concern about how to carry out the mission that they have and that is governed by laws and regulations, while their authority is under enormous pressure. I note that the investigation that has been carried out must not work but be side-stepped by this agreement.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-283	Madam President, I would like I have a great deal of sympathy for the concern that has been expressed that an ill-considered budget has been passed in Parliament, which must now be dealt with. I take responsibility for the continued process. We are not going to do ill-considered things there. This means that we will have to prepare things in order before we can give concrete answers. But I can say one thing: the employment services should not face conflicting demands in the future. Sweden's ability to attract skilled labour
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-285	Madam President, I would like The government's major objective during the last term of office was to achieve the lowest unemployment rate in the EU. The entire ministerial corps would do everything they could to ensure that any decision would lead to lower unemployment. But poorly designed targets were followed by poor results, and Sweden instead lost seven placements in unemployment statistics. I note that this objective has now been dropped and that the failure is partly blamed on an M-KD budget that came into force last month. Another failure in the labour market, which has now received great international attention, is the focus on skills. According to the Foundation Diversify, seven out of ten migrant workers are now reluctant to recommend others to work in Sweden. How has this happened? Well, to see time and again how good and much-needed staff have been expelled after small errors have been discovered in employers.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-288	Madam President, I would like First of all, let me say that I do not in any way believe that during the previous term of office labour market policy has been a failure. We have reduced unemployment every year, we have increased employment every year and we have increased the employment rate every year, even though Sweden was one of the countries in the world that received the most refugees during the major refugee crisis. We've almost doubled the speed of new arrivals coming to work. This does not mean that challenges do not remain in the labour market; indeed it does. However, we have achieved good results in the past term of office. When it comes to people who have come as labour immigrants and who are expelled because of small errors, we should not have it this way. The reason for this is the existing legislation that we inherited from the previous government. But we are prepared to make changes, so that it should not be the case that one is expelled because of trivial errors. That's completely unreasonable. Sweden needs expertise from other countries in an orderly manner, and we need to ensure that.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-290	Madam President, I would like It is a fact that despite indicative rulings that have reduced the negative outcomes, skills are continuing. The problem today is that previous employers' mistakes or cheating continue to affect the employee in the future, and the consequences have to be borne by the employee. If you have changed jobs and have good conditions today, you can still leave the country if a previous employer has made a mistake. Ylva Johansson now says that the legislation must be changed. But when will it change?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-292	Madam President, I would like Sofia Damm here touches on one of the difficulties in this context. We have had guiding judgments that it was up to the Migration Board to interpret. Based on how this interpretation has been made, there is a basis for what changes may need to be made to the legislation. We are prepared to do so, and we will have to come back to Parliament on this.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-294	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. Under Article 346 of the Treaty of Lisbon, when contracting defence equipment, there is an opportunity for Member States to avoid competitive procurement on the basis of essential national security interests. Sweden is characterised by the fact that we are a very small buyer of defence equipment. On the other hand, in relation to our size, we are one of the world's largest producers of defence equipment. We have much to gain, and quite little to lose, from the fact that all defence equipment in the Union is subject to competitive procurement. The Commission has made proposals to this effect. My question to Peter Hultqvist is whether the government is prepared to support the development that we are now looking at towards stronger competition in the field of defence equipment.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-297	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Allan Widman! According to what we agreed in the former Defence Committee and in the specialization bill, submarine operations and fighter aircraft, JAS Gripen, are to designate as essential security interests. To this end, in the budget bill to the Riksdag, which Parliament has approved, sensors, tele war ability and Krypton have been added. These are areas that in a continued process need to be analysed in terms of how it should be weighed by: national interests versus interaction with other stakeholders. We are prepared to have essential security interests in these areas. Otherwise, the guidelines that Parliament has previously established for procurement apply. This also means that we are involved in the processes that exist in the European Union but argue that the principle of Article 346 is important.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-300	Madam President, I would like When Peter Hultqvist lists combat aircraft, submarines, sensors and krypton, he has subscribed a large part of the Swedish equipment grant in the defence grant, a very large part. It becomes difficult for me to understand every time we talk about Sweden's dependence on exports, and ministers like Ann Linde go out and say that it is important to work against customs and for free trade. Only yesterday afternoon, Stefan Löfven expressed similar thoughts.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-301	Madam President, I would like I would be surprised if Allan Widman were to claim that submarines, combat aircraft, sensors, telewarning capabilities and Krypton would not be considered essential security interests. I think that Allan Widman also has knowledge and sensitivity to have balanced discussions here about where the interfaces go. We think it is a good thing that the principle in Article 346 is in place. But we agree to be part of the process within the EU.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-305	Madam President, I would like My question about measures to minimise the number of fatal accidents at work goes to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. This is an issue which has just been raised in this House, by Erik Bengtzboe. But it is such an urgent matter that there is every reason to debate it. So far this year 12 people have lost their lives in workplace accidents. Last year, 58 people died at work. It is not acceptable that family fathers and mothers do not come home from their jobs. The Swedish Parliament decided in 2016 on a strategy for the health and safety at work for the period 2016 – 2020. It has been successful in many parts. The strategy was designed to minimise the number of accidents.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-309	Madam President, I would like The short answer is that we must do what is necessary to reverse developments. These issues should be considered: Do we have the right expertise on the inspectors? Do we have enough inspectors?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-313	Do we need to change the limitation periods? Do we need to make efforts with regard to police and prosecutors? Do you need to look in the industry at structures that can affect the risk of accidents? I'm sure there are many more questions. Before I take a position on what proposals we should proceed with, I would like to listen to those who have the best skills. These are our expert authorities, employers in the most affected sectors and trade union representatives. We clearly see that a major risk is human and vehicle. A large number of fatal accidents are linked to vehicles, vehicles on the road but also vehicles in other environments. Another sector that stands out is the green industries. Agriculture and forestry have a large share.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-319	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Employment for his answer. I know that in the near future there will be a discussion with the parties. I understand that there are quite high hopes and expectations of it, and above all of what comes out of it. The approach taken by the Minister and the Government is positive. However, I would like to hear a little about the Minister's expectations of the forthcoming deliberations.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-322	Madam President, I would like I have high expectations. There will be people with great competence for the deliberation that I have called to on Monday. It was the first thing I took hold of when I was reappointed as Minister of Labour. Let me point out another area that we have prioritised in the last period. It's cooperation between authorities. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has been tasked with reviewing what is called unhealthy competition, i.e. criminal or grey companies that exploit human health to gain competitive advantages. It has been a very successful piece of work together with the police, the tax authorities and customs, and I intend to continue with that.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-326	Madam President, I would like In an interpellation debate on 12 February with Minister Shekarabi, we found that there are opportunities for other forms of operation in our welfare. In addition, the January Agreement provides for a level playing field. The red majority in Västerbotten now proposes that the county council's own primary care should be allowed to write off large parts of its deficit. In 2017, the primary care in Västerbotten had a deficit of SEK 96 million. It's not equal treatment. The county council is of course supported by a judgment from the Administrative Court in Härnösand, where it is said that you do not need to be competitively neutral. This is exactly contrary to the Minister's response in the interpellation debate. My question, therefore, is: how does the Minister intend to act in order to live up to the promised neutrality of competition?
i-9H3z6y2KZ9Y5hFAti7cYwW	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm, for the question! I think that, for the second time in this Question Time, it needs to be pointed out that we have a division of powers. Parliament makes laws. The government prepares legislative matters. The courts apply and interpret the laws. If we have views on how courts interpret and apply laws, the Government can initiate a process and change the legislation after the Riksdag decides on it. That is exactly what you can do in different contexts. The Center Party, the Liberals, the Green Party and the Social Democrats have agreed on changes in the regulatory framework regarding the equivalence of different forms of operation in welfare activities. We are just at the start of such a process. Of course it has to be investigated. Then it must be handled by the government and then the parliament. I look forward to that work. It is important that we have good and equal conditions for Swedish welfare throughout Sweden.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-332	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I don't think that's the last time we're discussing this issue. I take it that, and I assume, the well-known 73-point programme will be complied with, that it is not up to each county council to decide on competition neutrality and that the minister intends to amend the legislation so that we can live up to equal treatment and competition neutrality.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-334	Madam President, I would like Let me thank Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm for her commitment to the January agreement. It is a commitment that is appreciated. We will not disappoint the honourable Member. We shall, of course, honour this agreement and push through the policies laid down in the agreement.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-335	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Nordic Cooperation, Ann Linde. Nordic community is unique. But almost 40 per cent of the population in our neighbouring countries Denmark and Norway have changed their minds about Sweden in recent years. This shows not least a report that the Swedish Institute presented last year. After 2015, the major year of migration, many believe that Sweden is a naive country with extensive social problems, although not all of them. The Danish side also recently presented new demands and ideas for tougher border controls vis-à-vis Sweden as a reaction to how we have handled our borders, internal immigration controls and, not least, counter-terrorist travel, which is very topical at the moment. My question is: what does Minister Linde – as I know – mean is a warm Northist, like myself – to do so that new border controls in Sweden do not have to become a reality and that we should rather be able to dismantle existing border barriers in the future?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-339	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Emilsson for the question. It is great that we have several members of Parliament who are involved in the Nordic issues. Border barriers and border controls are a difficult issue – I think we should recognise that. The current decision is a three-month decision valid until 11 May. The justification is the same as we have had for several years now: there are shortcomings in the control of the Schengen external border which, unfortunately, means that this serious threat to public order and internal security persists. The Member States concerned have previously decided six months at a time, but with this decision we are synchronising with the other countries that have border controls. It is the Police Authority that decides how big it should be, and the government has followed these proposals.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-342	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I can share the assessment made on this issue. On the other hand, I am concerned about the development of an emerging attitude among a great many people in our immediate neighbours, who are about, in the long term, strengthening border controls against Sweden when, at the same time, we advocate stronger Nordic integration in the field of education, in terms of the possibility of practising in each other's countries and in terms of an integrated labour market. I know that Ann Linde highlighted this issue during her recent trip to Finland. What can be done in the future?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-345	Madam President, I would like I think one of the most important things is that we are strengthening border controls in the Schengen area so that we do not have to worry that there will be people who have bad intentions for our countries, whether this happens via Denmark, which has now been the case, or Sweden. Progress has now been made in the EU to make the external border much safer. I believe that this is one of the most important issues.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-347	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. DN's review of the new gaming market earlier this month revealed that companies that have received a licence are owned through proxy companies to hide the real owners and that several companies are in breach of the rules in Norway. It is also said that several companies have asked Spelinspektionen to keep their company structures secret. In turn, the Inspectorate responsible for gaming answers that they relate to the information that the companies have submitted in their licence applications when examining whether or not to approve them. For me, the image of an industry that has already breached several of the licensing requirements in relation to certain parts, such as suspension mechanisms, and which in other parts operates in the grey area for what is allowed. Unfortunately, it seems that the responsible authority does not have the tools they need to examine this satisfactorily.
i-SFbjaYt8CwvqNGTBn2dYbF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Vasiliki Tsouplaki, for the question. The Government, together with the Riksdag, will act to clarify one thing: Swedish law should apply to the gaming market. We've regained control. Today, the Government has decided to commission the Swedish Gaming Authority and the Swedish Consumer Agency to strengthen supervision of the gaming market. We have an investigation going on in parallel with the implementation of this process to come up with legislative proposals if there is a need for legislative adjustments. We will take action. It is totally unacceptable that there are companies that believe that they can act on the Swedish gambling market as if it were before 1 January 2019. Now we have a reregulated market. We have regained control and we will ensure that this legislation is complied with. We have a duty towards our citizens to ensure that we protect consumers in Sweden.
i-UXkg18U1aDAYwigE6vQNe1	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ardalan Shekarabi, for your answer! I am pleased that you have given this task to the responsible authorities. Unfortunately, it seems that many of the companies in the gaming market have an interest in finding loopholes in the legislation. Most recently today it was reported how companies have circumvented the rules to allow credit on their sites – gambling on credit is prohibited. I get very worried when I see how little change the new law has given me. But it sounds good that you are on the line on this issue. It is really a very low level that has been set in the new gaming law.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-357	Madam President, I would like We will notice changes. Already today, over 25 000 people have been able to turn themselves off from the gambling market. There are 25 000 people who have problems with gambling that could not turn off before 1 January, because that order did not exist. The Swedish law did not apply. Now we have the order in place, but adjustments will be needed. There will be companies trying to circumvent the legislation, but there we will close the holes. We will adjust the legislation and ensure that it is not possible to go around the Swedish legislation. We'll do that together.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-360	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Foreign Trade Minister. Developments in Iran are deeply worrying. It is governed by a regime that oppresses its population and executes dissidents and is the world's leading funder of terrorism. Iran is also a country – one of three countries – that conducts particularly active intelligence activities in Sweden. A Swedish citizen, Ahmadreza Djalali, is innocently sentenced to death in Iran. The government is working to strengthen relations with the Iranian regime. As part of this, Ann Linde recently took part in the Iranian Embassy's solemn 40th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution – the revolt that laid the foundations for what is today the world's worst dictatorship. My question to Ann Linde is: What is it in the Islamic Revolution that is worth celebrating?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-365	Madam President, I would like As a rule, the countries with which Sweden has diplomatic relations officially participate at national day receptions, often at ministerial level. This also applies to those countries which have a view of democracy, human rights and the position of women, for example, which we do not share. In this case, it was I who represented on Iran's National Day. Of course, I mentioned human rights, women's rights and so on, just as we always do when we have talks with Iran. But my participation was also an expression of Sweden's and the EU's strong support for the preservation of the nuclear agreement, JCPOA, which prevents the development of Iranian nuclear weapons. This is now under heavy pressure after the US has withdrawn. I stress: I participated in the celebration of the National Day.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-369	Madam President, I would like It is deeply regrettable that the Government did not choose to refrain from celebrating the revolution. Trade is important, but Iran is not just any country. Business and industry are controlled by the regime. Opposition groups warn that trade can contribute to what the regime is doing: terrorist financing and warfare. My question is: does this concern the Minister for Foreign Trade?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-371	Madam President, I would like I repeat that I participated in the celebration of the National Day, not in the 40th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution. However, as we see it, the policy of isolation against Iran that several countries are advocating has not led to anything good but, on the contrary, to a much more uncertain world and to worse conditions in terms of human rights and women's rights, which is one of the things that we must emphasise in our relations with Iran in the first place.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-373	Madam President, I would like I would like to put my question to Minister Ylva Johansson. The E4 goes like a artery through Stockholm, from Sigtuna in the north to Södertälje in the south. On this route there are some really big workplaces: Arlanda Airport, Karolinska, Scania, Astra Zeneca and others. The E4 has major flaws in its locations and needs to be secured. In the summer of 2016, a truck crashed into the railing on Södertäljebron, and half the bridge was shut down for two months. People find it difficult to get to and from their jobs at such an event. The result was a million losses for both the industry and the inhabitants of Södertälje and the entire county. My question is: Is this type of infrastructure investment something that the government is currently prioritising to create safe transport routes for employees and for the residents of Stockholm County?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-378	Madam President, I would like We are currently in the process of implementing a historically large investment in infrastructure that lies in the infrastructure package supported by the Riksdag. It includes major investments, particularly in trains, also in ports and boating, but also in the rehabilitation of roads. It is these parliamentary decisions that guide the Government's priorities.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-379	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Ylva Johansson. I am pleased that I have had to ask the question and have received the satisfactory answer. There are some absolutely necessary investments that need to be made around the E4 in Stockholm County. B the other is the Södertälje bridge, which is in a sensitive and exposed position, and the E4 around Arlanda Airport.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-381	Madam President, I would like It's true that the E4 is incredibly important. It is of central importance for people to be able to get to and from work and for transport to arrive. But I would also like to stress the importance of having safe roads, because road fatalities are an enormous problem. It is important that we can make investments that ensure safe and environmentally friendly road transport that promotes mobility in regions and facilitates our businesses.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-382	Madam President, I would like The government's regulation letter for the Swedish Armed Forces states that the agency is tasked with starting by November of this year to phase out the current contributions and struggle in the UN-led operation in Mali. The Swedish Armed Forces have expressed the view that Sweden should re-prioritise its international efforts, in order to strengthen our military cooperation with other countries. It therefore recommends that international efforts should take place primarily in cooperation with NATO, in the second place with the EU, and that priority should be given to UN-led operations only in the third place. My question to the Minister for Defence is then whether the decommissioning of the Malian operation is a way of responding to the Swedish Armed Forces' desire for re-priorities of international efforts.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-385	Madam President, I would like There is work going on within the Government Office where we naturally look at the effectiveness of the various efforts. I can only say that Mali has been operating for five years. We will have to come back when we have finished the analyses and have concrete proposals to present. Then the question is where the greatest needs can be considered to be. But we'll get back to you on the matter.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-387	Madam President, I would like From the Moderates' side, we have raised the question of how Sweden will continue to prioritise peace-promoting efforts. Our view is that they should primarily take place in the immediate vicinity. Of course, one part of our neighbourhood where there are international conflicts now is Ukraine. Russia has illegally annexed parts of the country and has waged a low-intensity war against other parts. The question I would like to put to the Minister for Defence is then what conditions the government sees for further aid to Ukraine.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-390	Madam President, I would like We have been very clear that in the event that there are conditions for a UN operation in Ukraine, Sweden is obviously prepared to assist. It has been presented in a wide range of contexts. But we are not yet at that time, and there are no such decisions and no such conditions today. We will see what it will look like in the future. Then, of course, we will take a positive position – without my having gone ahead of schedule.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-393	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Shekarabi. In 2016, the government presented a study on vulnerable EU citizens that concluded that it would be best if those begging on our streets returned to their home countries as soon as possible in order to start integration there. Today, however, 4,500 - 5,000 people live in the country who feed on begging, and these are the same figures as three years ago. We know today that there is an organised exploitation of these people begging in Sweden, and they live in unworthy conditions. The government's efforts have been more or less ineffective by looking at the number of beggars who are still in Sweden. I therefore wonder what conclusions the government is drawing from the measures it has so far taken. Does the government rule out a national begging ban? I know that the Minister of Civil Affairs has previously been concerned with introducing a total ban on begging.
i-E3JEAJm4T643Q4Eqi7S1HT	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Katja Nyberg, for the question! Although the matter is outside my responsibility in the government, I can generally say that the government currently has no plans to implement legislation that imposes a total ban on begging. But, of course, this is an important issue. We're following legal developments. We have also received a ruling from the Supreme Administrative Court, which clarifies the possibilities for municipalities to take action and impose restrictions on the collection of money. Of course, legal developments must also be followed by the government and parliament.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-399	Madam President, I would like It is interesting, because Sweden has fought against begging. It was totally banned back in 1847. Then the law has softened over time. But the government's position is that there should be less help in Sweden and increased aid in their home countries. You have even said that the Swedes should not give more money but instead give it to help. It's hard to do these two things at once. Why not a national begging ban?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-401	Madam President, I would like Based on the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court, Swedish municipalities have the opportunity to decide locally on restrictions on money collection. This will certainly lead to some changes in the way municipalities use their legal scope. There is a great deal of social work going on, not least in cooperation with Bulgaria and Romania. The government will follow developments.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-405	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Ann Linde. Sweden is a small export-dependent country with a world-class industry. We are totally dependent on good trade relations with other countries, but now we are seeing developments that are moving in a different direction. We are talking more about safeguard tariffs and closed borders than about openness and free trade. In 2018, the US imposed duties on steel and aluminium. Now, apparently, the United States is also considering tolls on European cars by up to 25%. My question to the Government is: Can the Government describe the trade relations between the US and the EU right now?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-409	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Patrik Engström, for the very important question! Let me start with a positive export innovation. Yesterday the figures came from SCB in 2018, and exports have increased by 10 percent. What we can also see in the case of cars is that our exports to several other countries, such as China and Germany, are increasing sharply, by up to 70%. By contrast, exports to the United States fall by 28 percent. I think this has to do with the risk of car tolls. What has happened is that an investigation has been presented to President Trump. We know that it contains proposals but not exactly what they are. There may be a risk of 25% customs duties on the whole engine sector. This would mean that we risk losing 4 000 jobs in Sweden, of which 3 000 in western Sweden. Of course, this is a harsh situation.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-412	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It's great that there are positive movements in this. Are there any other positive movements? It has not gone well in the WTO cooperation either. But does the Government see other positive movements that allow us to look with confidence at the future of free trade?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-413	Madam President, I would like Let me say two things. Firstly, the EU has never ever had so many free trade agreements that are either negotiated, to be implemented or under way. For example, the Japan agreement, which came on 1 February, is the largest free trade agreement ever. Secondly, there is a movement from several different countries to break the standstill in the World Trade Organisation. It'll be difficult, but there's still a will.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-415	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister Ylva Johansson. The government has recently supported the EU copyright directive. It is important to protect copyright, but what is now being proposed is in fact completely unbalanced. It is a step away from the internet we know today. It wants to introduce link tax and upload filters. Like Finland and the Netherlands, the government should have voted against this. The Moderates can tell us today that we will do everything we can to stop this proposal in the European Parliament, and even if we return in written consultation to the EU Board. Why does the government think it is right to introduce link tax and upload filters? Have you fully understood the consequences of your proposal?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-419	Madam President, I would like It is important to protect copyright, and here I think Tomas Tobé and I agree. It is also urgent that this be done in a way that does not have undesirable consequences in other respects. It is precisely this balance that is contained in the proposed directive. As Tomas Tobé well knows, a majority of the EU's 28 countries must agree in order for a new decision to be made. You have to work within the framework that exists to be able to influence the proposal, and so has the government. The issue now lies in the European Parliament.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-421	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I understand that you sometimes need to negotiate, but I did not hear any arguments as to why you think it is right to introduce link tax and upload filters or why Sweden like Finland and the Netherlands, countries with which we usually agree, could vote no. Why has the government not considered itself to have to deliberate on this issue seriously with the Swedish parliament? The last time you did it was in 2017, and now the Swedish Government suddenly supports this.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-424	Madam President, I would like It is always important that the government deliberates with the Riksdag, and we always come to the Riksdag if we are called to deliberation. I must admit, however, that I do not know what the discussion and decisions were like in this particular case.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-426	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Ardalan Shekarabi. The issue of gambling advertising has already been raised today. Gambling abuse is spreading, and gambling advertising is explosive. At the same time, we have the new rules, which is one way of putting pressure on the gaming companies. I am very pleased that Mr Shekarabi does so and starts immediately by ensuring compliance with the rules. There are two options here. One is to ensure that the companies comply with the rules and thus can retain their license and continue to operate in Sweden. The second is the introduction of a ban, as has been done in Italy, for example. It's also a good leverage on the gaming companies: If you don't mind, we can go one step further. Could this need to be regulated at EU level as well? After all, we have problems with alcohol advertising coming in via television broadcasters in the UK. Is there such a dimension to gambling advertising as well?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-431	Madam President, I would like I thank Hillevi Larsson for the question. No, that need does not exist because the construction of the legislation that the government and the majority of Parliament gathered around means that the companies that will conduct gaming activities on the Swedish market must have a license. In order to obtain and retain a Swedish licence, gaming companies must comply with Swedish legislation, regardless of the country from which they act. Even if a gaming company operates from Malta and uses, for example, television channels that have a broadcasting licence in accordance with British law, the company must comply with the Swedish law, also as regards marketing rules, if it targets its operations to the Swedish gaming market. Legally, this issue has therefore been resolved. It is now important to ensure that the rules on moderate marketing are actually followed by the companies. It is also important to address the issue of the amount and aggressiveness of advertising, and this will require either self-regulation or further legislative action.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-435	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that at least the loophole has been closed to do gambling advertising in Sweden via other countries. Previously, the gaming companies in Malta could use the loophole to reach Swedish players directly. It is gratifying that the loophole has now been closed both in Malta and in the UK when it comes to broadcasting gambling advertising. As far as alcohol advertising is concerned, it is a major problem that it comes through the back door, so it is gratifying that we can stop gambling advertising. Now it is only a matter of compliance with the rules, so I wish you every success in that work.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-437	Madam President, I would like This is important not only for consumers in the Swedish gambling market but to show our citizens that the Swedish state has control where it has an obligation to have control. For two decades we had no control over this market, and it had terrible consequences for thousands of people. Now there's gonna be a stop to it.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-439	Madam President, I would like This week two people have been arrested for illegal intelligence against Sweden. One of the people was employed by a high - tech company, and the arrest was reportedly made after the person had met a Russian intelligence officer on several occasions.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-441	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question. We can see that there has been espionage against Sweden for a long time. In particular, the countries of Russia, China and Iran are identified in the Security Service's public reports. The sphere of government often does a very good job of following up the various trends, reports and suspicions that exist about meetings and other activities that are going on to find points of view on Sweden and gain information that you are not entitled to. Spying is ongoing, and this is something that the authorities constantly pay attention to. It is therefore important that we are prepared to support the authorities in various ways in order for them to be successful in their work.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-445	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. My supplementary question is whether the government plans to take measures to strengthen Sweden's ability to detect and act against hostile intelligence activities in Sweden.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-447	Madam President, I would like There is a constant exchange between the Ministry concerned and the Security Service and also other authorities involved in such work. There are various ways in which we can help to support and develop the effectiveness of our methods of success in this work. I believe that such work is being carried out on an ongoing basis.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-449	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Labour. There is much talk of the need to meet the increasing digitalisation and automation with skills development. Industrial workers need to be equipped to take on the new and more advanced jobs that replace the old ones. A new survey from Novus shows that almost half of IF Metall's members do not think that the employer takes responsibility for providing them with the necessary skills development. More than one in three thinks it would be difficult to get a new equivalent job elsewhere if they were to lose their job. Marie Nilsson, IF Metall's Federal Chairman, says that this is boring but not unexpected.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-453	Madam President, I would like Jamal El-Haj-Haj raises an extremely urgent issue. It is also a question of the future for Swedish competitiveness, but also in terms of job security. We need to make a great effort to develop more people's skills throughout their lives. In answer to the concrete question, I can tell you that in April the government will set up an investigation to look at changes in the Employment Protection Act. In the directives to it, the January agreement will include a mandate to investigate how to increase the opportunities for skills development and transition for employees.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-455	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Secretary of State, and it concerns the gambling market. We have spoken a great deal today about the gambling market. It is clear that it is a subject that is engaged, and I intend to continue on the same subject. It was good that the gaming market was re-regulated, because it was outdated. It was completely unreasonable that there was a market online that was completely unregulated, and it is good that more gaming companies can operate on equal terms here in Sweden. What has become apparent with the re-regulation is the large increase in gambling advertising. No one who has read newspapers, surfed the Internet or had the TV turned on recently may have missed it. However, the gaming company that has increased its advertising purchases most is Svenska Spel. Advertising has increased by 260 per cent, amounting to 75 million in January. We are talking about moderation. I wonder whether the Minister for Civil Affairs thinks this is moderate and whether he believes that a state company, which should mitigate the negative consequences of gambling, should have such aggressive marketing.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-459	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Weinerhall, for the important question! Our starting point has been that the regulations should apply to all players in the Swedish gaming market. An example of how we act is that two weeks ago I called the various gaming companies. I wanted to send a signal that by 31 March they need to come back with self-regulation initiatives if the government is not to proceed with a legislative process. This signal was also sent to Svenska Spel. We have exactly the same rules for all these companies, not least in terms of marketing rules. We expect all companies to assume their responsibilities and comply with the Swedish law. This also applies, of course, to Svenska Spel.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-462	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Ylva Johansson. I am a member of Uppsala. In Uppsala, we were very pleased with the government's efforts on the Delegation towards segregation during the last parliamentary term. Efforts would be made in socio-economically vulnerable areas with more people at work, better schools and safer residential areas. These efforts disappeared in the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, which were adopted in this House. This will be accompanied by the effects that municipalities will have when additional services are also lost devastatingly.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-465	Madam President, I would like Perhaps the divisions we have in our country are our most serious social problem. A clear problem is that there are segregated residential areas where you often risk getting into a negative spiral and cannot give children the good conditions for the future that they would need. It was therefore urgent for the previous government to invest in the Delegation towards segregation and to make long-term financial commitments to be able to invest in these areas. As Mrs Burwick says, a different budget than that government would have liked to see is now in place. The money has to a large extent been withdrawn. The government will have to come back in future budgets. My ambition is that we should be able to continue working towards segregation. However, we will have to come back to the budgetary work on the form and scope of this. On the other hand, the additional services will remain, which is also an important part of the January agreement. There will be slightly smaller volumes than there are today. However, it is an important labour market policy measure that we will be able to continue with.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-469	Madam President, I would like I, too, have a question for Minister Shekarabi, and it concerns gambling. As has been pointed out earlier in this House today, a few years ago the Social Democrats were involved in a major scandal with their lottery Combis game. Although it was forbidden in Sweden to sell lottery tickets and games on credit, the Social Democrats had, strangely enough, an exception in the legislation. This sent 8,000 people to the bailiff. Now it turns out that other gaming companies also sell games on credit. This has been revealed by the media. The Government even says that it is a brutal reminder that these are the risks that are greatest for the consumer. Madam President, I would like There is an announcement from the Riksdag that written agreements at telephone sales should also apply to gambling. In view of the brutal reminder of the risks of gambling, it would be interesting to hear when the government intends to present a proposal to remove the exemption for written contracts in the case of telephone sales in the case of gambling.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-473	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, for the question and for the strong commitment to consumer affairs! This is one of the important issues that we will have to work on. It is a question of strengthening consumer protection in connection with gambling, not least in relation to credit. We have just received legislation in place that applies to all companies and it contains a credit ban. We have tightened up the legislation on exemptions from the credit ban for lotteries. We did this in collaboration with Lars Beckman's party, which I am very proud of. We will have to continue to adjust and tighten up legislation in the field of gambling. Therefore, an investigation is currently actually working in parallel with the implementation of new legislative proposals. We will return to the Riksdag as soon as we have a basis from the investigation regarding the various consumer law issues that are relevant in the gaming market.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-476	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. If the risk of Sweden being subjected to a military attack of the more traditional kind may be described as low, the risks of cyber attacks today are unfortunately all the greater. Increasingly, warnings are being heard from authorities and experts in the field that Sweden may also be a target for more extensive cyber attacks that, in the worst case, could harm important societal functions, such as electricity supply, and ultimately threaten the lives and health of individuals. Attacks can be isolated or as a subset of a more comprehensive campaign against Swedish interests. During the previous term of office, the S-led government initiated several efforts to strengthen information security, especially among our authorities. However, the impression is that further efforts are needed.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-480	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Kalle Olsson! Sweden is exposed on an annual basis to approximately 100 000 activities aimed at public authorities, companies and various social institutions. There is continuous development of different methods to defend oneself against these activities. It is going on between companies, between authorities and in different industries. This is of course also taking place within the Swedish Armed Forces. In the agreement made, the so-called 73-point program, there is a mark that we intend to start or build a unit that will work on issues of this type. I would like to emphasise that, within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces and on the basis of decisions previously taken in the Riksdag, we are also developing so-called active cyber capabilities, which is a very important ability.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-484	Madam President, I would like The police are working hard. You have a new organization that's starting to come into place. You work a lot with your efficiency and have become more efficient. This has meant that more people can be prosecuted. Many of these people must be put in custody at first. At the same time, some detention facilities have been closed down. In Örebro it is crowded in the detention centres while Västerås has closed the detention centre. Now you're even discussing whether you need to have two inmates in the same jail cell. I would like to ask Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson how she views the working environment for those who are going to work in the tough environment in an overcrowded detention facility and also perhaps have to put two people in the same detention cell.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-487	Madam President, I would like This is a correct description given by Lotta Olsson. The background is that the police have become more effective. We take more bad guys, and that means the jails are now very drunk. It is a pity that crimes are committed, but it is good that the criminals are caught. This means that the issue of detention capacity is a matter of topical concern to the government. We must, of course, consider whether other changes need to be extended or made in order to cope with capacity. Of course, the health and safety rules always apply.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-490	Madam President, I would like I have a question of a general political nature for Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. I would like to highlight an issue that has been much discussed in recent times. It is about segregation in Sweden, how rural areas are placed outside growth and discriminated against. The government has said that it wants to invest in the countryside. At the same time, several social democratic councillors testify to the problems that the government is causing. I am thinking here of the environmental taxes, which make it harder to work and get through. There are no gas stations to refuel the car and so on.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-494	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that we have a society that stays together and that the whole of Sweden should not only live but also develop. Therefore, the government has previously made investments in a food strategy and large investments in infrastructure. We have made relocations by many authorities to ensure good service and resources and created a new redistribution system in the local government sector to ensure resources to the whole country. Of course, more needs to be done. Margareta Cederfelt points out as a threat the tax shift that involves higher taxation of what is harmful to the environment or dangerous to the climate. I can assure Margareta Cederfelt that a Social Democratic-led government will ensure that such a tax exchange takes place in such a way that it has a good distribution profile and enables the whole country to live.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-497	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for reservations 1 and 5 to be approved. Contacts with others and education are important in order to be able to orient themselves, shape independent perceptions and actively participate in society. The role of civil society plays a very important role here. A clear example is the formation of people, where there is room for reflection and where one can jointly gain deeper knowledge of our world. Formation broadens our horizons and frees us, and we can note that society is enriched when there are good opportunities for people to join forces and learn more about some subject together. Public education contributes here with a structure that supports a broad range of educational activities. These activities play an important role in society and cannot be replaced by training courses organised by public or educational enterprises. Folkbildningens studieförbund and folkhögskolan must have good and reasonable conditions in order to continue to contribute to the development of our society. However, there is a problem with project grants when they are made at the expense of basic support. This can make the business difficult to control over time. It is necessary to move from project to project because it is necessary to apply for projects and not least in order to develop their activities. We therefore want to see more free resources for peoples' education rather than more managed subsidies. Madam President, I would like Folkbildning plays an incredibly large and important role in enabling more people across the country and with different conditions to participate in different types of cultural events. As I said, education plays a major role in the development of society and democracy. It is also not least in study circles that a broad social commitment can emerge. The Center Party wants the individual to develop through association with civil society, in meetings with others in the locality. Folkbildning with the study associations and folk high schools that exist throughout the country, in the countryside and in the city, plays an important – I would say quite essential – role here. The state is investing a lot of resources in peoples' education. It is, in my opinion, well-used money, because people's education is an important player in raising and creating engagement in our society. As I said, contacts with others and education are important in order to be able to orient themselves, shape independent perceptions and actively participate in society. The student associations and folk high schools are making an important contribution. It's about human education, not just education. Mrs. Alman! We celebrate this year at t it is 100 years since Sweden's birthday decided that women will get equal voting rights as men. It is an incredibly important anniversary year to pay attention. What is not as well known is that it is 30 years since people with intellectual disabilities were given the same right. On 1 January 1989 we abolished the declaration of inadmissibility in Sweden. It was only then that we got equal voting rights for everyone in Sve Rige who reached age of age. It is also worth paying attention and celebrating, I think. To this day, not everyone is fully aware of how one can use one's right to influence one's society, among other things, by participating in general elections. This applies not least to people with intellectual disabilities. Study associations and folk high schools also play a very important role in enabling people with intellectual disabilities to create a platform to influence and participate on equal terms in our society. This can be done through cultural events and commitment, and it can also be done through the provision of knowledge and education in different study circles and in folk high schools. Ann-Britt Ann-Britt from the Moderates mentioned in her speech the course Adapted IT at Mora folk high school as a good example, and I can only agree. It is a fantastic and unique course that offers people with intellectual disabilities at Mora folk high school. Another example is the Adult School's Mitt Val, which started before the 2014 election year and aimed at people with intellectual disabilities. Through this, which was first a project called Mitt Val, they developed knowledge, documentation and materials for study circles that supported and trained people with intellectual disabilities in taking part in and using their civil right to vote and influence political decisions. Since then, my Val has helped to give some of our citizens in Sweden the opportunity to use their right to influence the society they live in, and there are now My Val-study circles in many places around our country – all so that more people can use this right and understand what it means. The study circle can also be the beginning of something much larger, a beginning of something that has not been anticipated but which gives additional dimension to one's formation. This could not happen unless peoples had their free role to find their own ways. And it is precisely freedom and transparency that gives peoples' education the power to meet each individual through education, where they stand to take on lifelong learning from there. Madam President, I would like The power of public education also lies in its existence throughout the country. Folk high schools and study associations' study circles and cultural arrangements exist not only in cities but at least as much, perhaps even more, in rural areas and smaller towns. However, there is a risk that projects, like the one that My Val started, will stop being projects and that the knowledge and methodology that they have managed to create will not be shared more than those that were part of the project. That is again why it is so important to have strong general support for peoples' education. Madam President, I would like The Center Party always looks to the individual, but there are obstacles in the systems of public education to, among other things, be able to contribute more effectively to the integration of individuals. The Center Party wants every human being to have the opportunity to develop. There, peoples' education is an important part, because it is about education and not just about education.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-514	Madam President, I would like Today, thousands of Swedes around the country participate in a study circle. To ABF's premises in Upplands Väsby goes Eivor, 72 years. She needs to be better at using her computer and navigating on the internet. Her bank has said that she will carry out her affairs through the bank's website, and Eivor herself would like to follow her grandchildren on Facebook. In an hour, Anton, 16 years old, the school. Then he goes to one of Adult School's rehearsal rooms in Örebro to repeat with his rock band before the concert on Saturday. On the floor above in the same house is Lars. He's met the love of his life. But love lives in Paris, so now he goes into a study circle to learn French so he can surprise him the next time they see him. Madam President, I would like Eivor, Anton and Lars are in tea alone. Every year, 1.7 million people participate in some of the study associations' approximately 266 600 study circles located in all of Sweden's municipalities. The study associations are also a national movement for the culture of our country. In 2017, approximately 375 200 cultural programmes were organised with close to 20 million visitors. I had the privilege, together with Per Lodenius, to attend the Music Conference of the Associations of Students in Norrköping a few weeks ago. There we heard a report about the music activities of the study associations, and it became very clear how the ten study associations form the basis of the infrastructure of Swedish music life. Many artists of today's size have at one time begun their journey in one of the study association's rehearsal rooms. In fact, Sweden had become much quieter without the music activities of the study associations. Madam President, I would like Sweden had not only become quieter but a strong public education – Sweden had also become less democratic. Democracy is inscribed in people's DNA. When the first folk high schools and educational circles were started in the 19th century, the aim was to make knowledge and education accessible to all in a democratic and equal way. Formation would no longer be reserved for a privileged group in society and therefore not for power. With knowledge and education, people were given the opportunity to shape their lives, stand up for their rights and demand part of the power. The formation would create a more equal society. That was how the peoples' movements of the time reasoned, and that was how the formation of the people came to be a central part of the democratisation of Sweden. Madam President, I would like However, the struggle for democracy is not over. Folkbildning is at least as important today as it was in the 1800s. In Europe, in our neighbouring countries and here in Sweden, undemocratic forces are growing ever stronger. With attacks on civil society, the rule of law, universities and the media, anti-democratic forces in countries such as Hungary and Poland want to dismantle democracy piece by piece. I do not mean that educated people cannot attack democracy. What is happening in the world around us shows that there are many educated people who use our democratic institutions to break it down. No– education is not a guarantee, but formation creates greater resistance to anti-democratic forces. By creating more meeting places for people to meet, discuss and encourage critical thinking, we create a stronger resistance to anti-democratic tendencies. By giving people hope for the future and power over their lives, we also reduce the risk of them falling for authoritarian ideas. Folkbildning has the infrastructure to do all this. Folkhögskolan and study associations create meeting places for people and offer rooms for discussions and discussions. Through their unique pedagogy, people provide more opportunities for education, and through study-led education the study associations also provide training in democratic responsibility and leadership. It is therefore no wonder that peoples' education frightens anti-democratic forces. It is not surprising, therefore, that the Swedish Democrats not only make major cuts of 770 million in public education in their budget exercise, but in the motions we are discussing today also want to limit the number of places on general courses, stop one of the study associations and express scepticism about how today's grant granting and the distribution of grants goes to. The proposals may not seem so dangerous at first sight, but these proposals are merely pretexts for weakening and undermining the role of civilisation in society in the long term. It is clear when all SD proposals on population formation are reviewed through a look out over the country to see how SD has acted where they have political influence. Aron Emilsson, the cultural spokesperson of the Swedish Democrats, states in an article in the Expressen that the reason for SD's cuts in education is that they instead prioritise investments in security. He further argues that if security is not maintained, this will eventually lead to a reduction in economic conditions for activities such as adult education. To say that any effort on peoples' education would resist creating a more secure society is incomprehensible to me. A society that invests in its population also invests in the security of society. Folkbildning offers, without coercion, education through life and creates learning environments where people can grow and develop in ways other than in school or in the labour market. For us Social Democrats, therefore, investing in peoples' education is also a conscious investment in security. That is why we Social Democrats want to continue to protect the independence and independence of peoples' education and to give the study associations and folk high schools the right conditions for development. We want to see more people like Eivor, Anton and Lars participate in the activities of public education. For peoples' education helps to strengthen people, it contributes to a more equal society and, in the long run, it contributes to democracy. Madam President, I would like For SD, cuts in public education are not about safeguarding security. It's about SD fearing the education of the people. With its democratic infrastructure, peoples' education stands for all that SD wants to counteract, namely a society formed that fights against their reactionary ideas. That is why, Madam President, peoples' education is as important for democracy today as it was in the 19th century. With this, I call for all reservations to be rejected and support the committee's position.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-533	Madam President, I would like You should hear a lot before your ears fall off, as you say. I note that Mr Azadeh has followed the debate that has taken place in Expressen, where ABF is also arguing inappropriately and without taking responsibility for a factual debate on matters of public education. I find that boring. I do not know if the Social Democrats heard my speech earlier, but it is clear and clear that we are both protecting the formation of people and the foundations, aims and future of peoples' education. It is also quite clear that the Swedish Democrats, like the Social Democrats, are investing a great deal of resources in the education system. This is a significant part of our preparation area and of our appropriations, where we also spend a major part of our resources. However, when you react to the fact that anti-democratic forces – whatever you mean by that – are attacking peoples' education, you should also look at what I have not heard the Social Democrats react to at any time. It is about the anti-democratic forces that exist in the formation of the people and that debaters from left to right have reacted strongly to. But I have never heard the Social Democrats reject this. At the same time, I hear what Azadeh Rojhan Gustafsson, for example, says, and I assume she is referring to the Swedish Democrats wanting to stop certain study associations. We have clearly indicated that, in order to safeguard the basic aims of peoples' education, not least the aim of democracy, and in order for it to lead to a good future, we must put down on anti-democratic players who receive public funds. And yes, we have criticised, for example, Ibn Rushd for trying to censor the Adult School of Study, for inviting anti-Semitic lecturers and homophobic lecturers, and for allowing this to happen through public funds. This is totally unacceptable if one has a fundamental love for the free soul of peoples' education and the democratic purpose of peoples' education and has a relationship with and positive memories of folk high school or student associations.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-538	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Aron Emilsson, for the line! We Social Democrats have government power, and it is we who have set up the two investigations that have been going on in recent years to develop democracy criteria for civil society organisations. So we can look at how we can clarify the concept of democracy so that we know how to pay out to different organisations. This is an incredibly important piece of work. Never will any part of civil society receive subsidies and money from the state when one cannot stand up for democratic values. That is where we are clear, and I would just like to point out whether it is the case that Mr Emilsson has not heard it from a social democrat before. I react when Aron Emilsson says that the Swedish democrats stand up for popular education. In what way do the Swedish Democrats stand up for popular education when you make major cuts, with 770 million? How is it to protect peoples' education?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-541	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that, as both the Liberals and the Center Party have said in the past, we see problems with the government launching earmarked commissions for peoples' education, where it will, for example, deal with certain parts of the integration mission. These are the things for which the Migration Board, SFI and the regular education system are responsible. This also partly applies to persons who do not have a residence permit in the country and who do not know for themselves whether they will be granted a residence permit and so on. This has been given by the government as earmarked commissions for public education. People have also been given the task of setting quotas for certain groups that can take precedence at the expense of others. This is very strange from the very point of view of the purpose and history of folk education: to be able to give everyone an opportunity for education. Then you should not set a group against a group, as the government has done in the education system. We are withdrawing these earmarked efforts and commissions from the political side; that is quite right. The four basic aims of education and, not least, its democratic mission should benefit the entire population and reflect the entire population and not just certain groups. Nor should it be done solely on the basis of a left-wing liberal approach to integration. It is also for this reason that we are making a general saving in terms of these and other aspects of peoples' education. It's a matter of priority. It must have been as obvious to the Social Democrats as it has been to Amineh Kakabaverh in the Left Party or the Adult School of Study at the other end, and to all the other debaters in between, that we have peoples' education institutions and actors who have abused public support for very obscure purposes. It is just like Statskontoret and others, to a certain extent also the Folkbildningsrådet, have seen: Quality-assured reforms are needed to safeguard the tradition and constitution of peoples' education.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-545	Madam President, I would like Folkbildning has taken a huge responsibility since 2015. Folkbildning has helped people to get into Swedish society, to learn the Swedish language and to become part of this society. Isn't that what the Swedish Democrats are always talking about? Don't you think immigrants should get into society faster? That is exactly what the study associations, folk high schools and general education have succeeded in. They have succeeded in integrating people, and that is why we continue to invest in peoples' education. It is not just a question of targeting this group, it is a question of targeting the whole of society. It is about continuing to broaden the responsibility of peoples to strengthen democracy.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-547	Madam President, I would like Imagine a warm and crisp autumn day when the sun really slides down through the trees and you suddenly hear how your dog gets absorbed and starts drifting away towards the shooters. Or imagine an icy cold pass where the feet have numbed and the rain seems to get in all over, and where even the game seems to have given up and huddled under a fir tree. Hunting in Sweden is a real popular movement with about 250 000 active hunters. Of course, hunting experiences may differ quite markedly. For some practitioners it is a matter of experiencing nature at close range. For others, it is about being able to put climate-smart meat on the table. Third, perhaps it is the companionship or interaction with the dog that attracts. Common to all Swedish hunters, however, is that they are part of the management of our game strains and are an important part of ensuring a good balance and good care of nature and game in different parts of our elongated country. Madam President, I would like On Monday I came home from a week's tour to various nature reserves and wildlife parks in South Africa. For a Swede who actually has Babar as the only elephant reference, it was quite a magical experience to suddenly have a five-ton big one at almost arm's length. I'm a little filled with this. At the same time, I got many interesting perspectives that I think are applicable to the Swedish context when it comes to game conservation. I was told, for example, of how a threatened and to many mythical species such as the elephant of the local farmers could constitute an imminent threat of total destruction of crops and buildings and of the conflicts that may arise as a result. I was also told how too many elephants in a nature reserve could change the landscape overall by damaging trees and shrubs and that the population therefore needed to be kept at a sustainable level with a sufficient number of elephants in terms of the size of the area. In addition, I was told how some wildlife parks were too small to keep the big five at all because there were not enough deer and small wild game to feed predators such as lions and leopards. Whether it's game conservation in South Africa or in Sweden, there are some common principles. A functioning game management requires that those people and activities that actually live with the wild in their vicinity and whose everyday lives are affected by the distribution and extent of the tribes also feel that they have an opportunity to influence the administration and can be part of it. This applies both if you are a fruit grower in South Africa and worry about elephants and if you are a sheep farmer in Värmland and affected by the wolf. It is also necessary to look at the interaction between the different species and how they shape the environment in which they live, whether it is elephant damage to acacia trees or elk damage to pine trees or whether it is the impact of the leopard population on the number of impal or elk in a vargrevir. In several areas there is a preference among us in politics to talk about the Swedish model – so also when it comes to hunting and game conservation. Swedish game conservation is based on decentralised management based on dialogue and cooperation between the different actors that affect and are themselves affected by the tribes. It is important that we protect and develop this. That is why, during the last parliamentary term, the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture has highlighted in various announcements the need to clarify and strengthen the mandate and powers of the game delegations and also to ensure a good balance between different actors and interests. The Center Party will continue to push for this to become a reality. Unfortunately, while we can enjoy an improved dialogue in several areas in order to find common solutions, we also see, at the same time, a risk of increased polarisation in other areas, such as wolf management and the impact of cloven-hoofed game on forestry. On the part of the Center Party, it is absolutely essential that several of the conflicts we see linked to the game administration be resolved constructively. Part of this is the establishment of a game authority with a comprehensive overall approach to game management. It is an issue that the Center Party has been pursuing for a long time and which the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture has also supported in previous reports. Madam President, I would like In many parts of Sweden, the wild boar strain is a major problem for farmers as well as for road users, and the costs are high – it is about billions. Many also follow the development of African swine fever with concern, as an outbreak could have major consequences for both wild and domestic animal life. It is therefore important that we, as politicians, do what we can to create conditions and facilitate the shooting of wild boars. Because of cumbersome sampling processes, it is a big step for many hunters to start selling the meat. If the freezer is already full, it is difficult to find outlets for the meat, and incentives to go out and shoot the pig are reduced quite significantly. When such a climate-smart raw material as wild boar meat is seen as a disposal problem, we need a change. The Committee on Agriculture and the Environment has already issued an announcement to the government to facilitate the sale and distribution of wild boar meat, and an investigation is now under way. We in the Center Party see this as an absolute key to reducing and controlling the wild boar tribe. At the same time, regulatory simplification is also needed in other areas to facilitate the hunting of wild boars. For example, it is about the rules on the use of thermal cameras. Here, too, it is important that the proposals on the table of the government become a reality as soon as possible. For the Center Party, it is also important that the hunt is accessible to everyone. However, we can note that the hunters who use motorised vehicles due to a disability encounter problems in the current regulatory framework. The system involves exemption management that is unnecessarily time-consuming and costly. The Center Party therefore wants to see regulatory simplifications, for example, to ensure that the exemptions apply for a longer period of time and throughout the country. Although this particular report does not concern me, I would still like to devote a minute to the view of legal gun owners as hunters, which is a topical issue linked to the Swedish implementation of the EU arms directive. Sweden should take a strong stance against illegal weapons, but for a functioning game care system, skilled weapons managers are required. Trying to curb the existence of illegal weapons by hunting and making it more difficult for law-abiding hunters and shooters is something that the Center Party will never accept. The Centre Party has acted both in the European Parliament and here in Parliament to ensure that the regulatory framework does not fail and is not overimplemented, and we will continue to do so. In this context, I would also like to highlight another issue that has taken shape in the debate over the last few weeks: threats and harassment in the name of animal rights. Seeker hunters testify to broken cars and murder threats, and more and more hunters hesitate to participate in predatory management as conditions become increasingly insecure due to hatred, harassment and violence. There are also examples of threats being posed by officials dealing with cases relating to the hunting of wolves. This sees the Center Party as a serious democracy problem, not least when people actually perform a community-needed service such as search and predator management. Among other things, there is a need for a code of conduct for these animal rights offences and better coordination within the police to tackle the problem. Madam President, I would like With a sustainable hunting and game conservation policy as a basis, there are great opportunities to develop activities around hunting and create jobs and jobs throughout the country. It is about experiences in different forms as well as developing game meat as a product. A sustainable hunting and game conservation policy is also a prerequisite for other rural activities to continue contributing to the development of Sweden as a whole. Madam President, I would like Of course, I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Center Party, but for time-winning, I only agree to reservation 14.
i-ETxBL86jQhYFe2TBw8qDgY	Madam President, I would like This motion report deals with many important hunting and game conservation issues, such as the wildlife management delegations, the general mission, wild boar management, elk and deer management, general hunting issues and more. The hunt as a peoples' movement has great soft values, and it is over 300 000 people who engage in it. It also has great economic value. In the latest survey, the Swedish hunting was valued at 4.5 billion, both on recreational value and on food value. It is not, therefore, to ignore when there is concern about the Swedish hunt and how we conduct it. Swedish hunting and game conservation are characterized by good ethics and well-educated hunters and dogs. This is evident not least in the effort of Swedish hunters in all traffic accidents during all days of the year. Searchers are often exposed to threats and a very dangerous traffic situation. Swedish hunters have, through good management, built up large capital in the game tribes that we now have, but large game tribes also require sound and active management that goes hand in hand with well-functioning agriculture and forestry. If we can achieve this, the hunt can also deliver a variety of high-quality and climate-smart food that rhymes very well with the food strategy. We know that today we import between 70 and 80% of all deer meat eaten in Sweden. It's remarkable when we have very established deer strains in some places. We Moderates, of course, stand up for all our reservations, but I choose to endorse only No 19. I would now like to comment briefly on our reservations. The first concerns the general mission. Since 1938, the Swedish Hunter Association has carried out what is called the general hunting and game conservation mission. We Moderates believe that that mission should remain intact. It works well and is carried out efficiently and responsibly. That way we reach out to many hunters. As a result, we get good feedback all the time when it comes to inventories and other things. It is simply good cooperation between civil society and an authority. Consideration should also be given to extending the general mandate from one year to three years, if any. Our second reservation concerns the wildlife management delegations. When the Alliance government introduced the Wildlife Management Delegations, it was to meet the growing challenges of wider and growing game tribes. The wild tribes are different in the country, and it takes a regional and local anchoring to deal with the issues that arise. In some, it is a matter of predators, and in others it may be a question of high cloven-hoofed game tribes. Still others may be concerned with grazing birds. Wild game management delegations should be able to take decisions on regional management on horizontal issues, but it is not clearly defined what these issues mean for regional management. There are old announcements about strengthening the wildlife management delegations, which we Moderates think is good. In fact, these delegations have the local and regional knowledge needed to make wise decisions and to create acceptance for them. On the other hand, we are critical of the last government's decision to introduce two additional mandates into the game management delegation. Among other things, the importance of the environment and nature conservation is rewarded, which gives a biased proportionality to property rights. In addition, the other interests are represented by only one mandate each. We think that we should return to the original number of mandates in the game management delegations and also review the possibility of strengthening their powers. If we are serious about regional management, that should also be the case. I also think that too often the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency sees decisions taken by the wildlife management delegations go in and poke in. Wildlife management delegations should not only be discussion clubs, but should be able to make rapid and legally secure decisions on matters such as licensing and protection hunting to take into account conservation status and socio-economic aspects. The Moderates believe that the people present in the wildlife management delegations should be able to deal with these issues. Our third reservation is about protecting Swedish hunting and game conservation. The hunters represent a wide range of important contributions that take place on a non-profit basis – efforts that are invaluable for Swedish wildlife conservation. It is about inventories, support feeding and keeping invasive species down. The Moderates wish to emphasise the importance of the hunters' efforts and to safeguard the Swedish hunting culture. Politics must not put a stop to unnecessary bureaucracy and legal uncertainty in, for example, licensing procedures. The latest example is a licensing case that has taken a very long time. We have had to use lawyers to get their license, which has cost up to SEK 100 000, because the weapon has a look that is not traditional for Swedish hunting weapons. That is not acceptable. We Moderates also see a risk of over-implementing the new EU arms directive. The feeling is that the government believes that many of the hunters' weapons are being used in crime, because they put a stop to it rather than make it easier for hunters. The hunters' efforts are needed in society and should therefore not be discouraged. Wild boar is a species that arouses a lot of emotion. For some, boars are only a problem, and for others boars are an asset. We as politicians should make it easier to dispose of wild game meat, which also includes wild boar meat. This investigation is under way at the Swedish Food Administration, and we are very much in favour of this on the part of the Moderates. I also look with confidence and joy at the fact that we make it easier to use mobile lighting, as well as that reliefs have been made for bait cameras and other things. It makes shooting wild boar easier. Wild boar is a hard-to-hunt species, but it can be handled. I have a good example from Östergötland, where a landowner got wild boar as a fairly new concern in his farm. In the first year, there was a lot of damage to his grain crops. The following year he tried to simply ask the question to some active hunting youth in the neighborhood. A gang was gathered together and agreed to have the hunt different evenings. That summer the damage was reduced by about 70 - 80 percent, because the landowner gave hunting opportunities to young people who had nowhere else to hunt and who were allowed to participate in exciting wild boar hunting. It is therefore possible to deal with this through joint management and by allowing young people to join the hunt. I'll say something short about the off-road driving and the off-road driving teams. I think it is very positive that this investigation is under way. It is about people with disabilities having better opportunities to hunt. The joy of the hunt will come to everyone, and I hope that this investigation will lead to that. Madam President, I would like Swedish hunting is unique. I hope that we politicians will ensure that it continues to be so.
i-UacqaK7AuLZsA3KhSVq1SV	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are of course behind all their reservations, but for time-winning we ask for a case to only reservation No 1, the Swedish Hunter Association's responsibility for the general mission, and reservation No 4, Change in the powers of game management delegations etc. The Swedish Democrats have a positive attitude towards Sweden's hunting corps, which to a large extent owns and carries on knowledge of animals, nature and culture. Hunting is generally high, and game management generally works well. Within the game administration, however, there are a number of unsolved knots, and the Swedish Democrats have as their declared ambition to be a constructive force in making this policy area work better than it does today. The Swedish Hunter Association has since many years – since 1938 – a general mission to care for parts of hunting and game conservation in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats see an invaluable competence with high credibility that has strong ties with the hunting corps, which means that the importance of the general mission for hunting and game conservation in Sweden cannot be overestimated. The hunters' hunting card fee should continue to go into the care fund and then be distributed to different types of activities. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is important to have a strong local and regional foundation in terms of influence and decision-making among the people who live and work in the area. Decisions on protection and licensing must be enforceable already in a game management delegation when favourable conservation status has been achieved for a wild species and in the light of economic interests. The composition must also return to the original, where the balance between politics, different interests, authorities and others is better reflected than in the modified composition, which the government has implemented. The policy of the Swedish Democrats is to strive for reduced conflicts and problems between predators and people in rural areas. All the large predators must be managed responsibly, and the combined predatory pressure must be maintained at reasonable levels throughout the country. The management aims to keep the numbers of predators at an appropriate level, when too large strains ultimately strike back at the predators themselves. The concentration of predators is troubling in some parts of the country, not least in western Svealand and southern Norrland. Then I think of Gävleborg, Hälsingland. In many cases, where hunting, outdoor activities and animal husbandry have been possible, one can no longer feel the sense of security that one once felt when living in the countryside. In order to maintain the acceptance of predators, policies must take greater account of regional conditions in the context of licensing and protection hunting permits. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats believe that a minimum level for the size of the bear population is not enough. Sustainable management should also include a maximum level ensuring that the bear population does not grow too strong and large. Several conflicts with a fatal outcome for humans have been the result of too large a bear tribe, for example 2004 in Jokkmokk and 2007 in Valsjöbyn in the Gäddede area of Jämtland. In some areas of western Svealand and southern Norrland, the concentration of wolf is very high, and it is the view of the Swedish democrats that the wolf tribe in some areas needs to be managed more actively. In short, there is a need for tougher hunting pressure. We are now seeing greater activity from so-called hunting opponents and animal rights activists, who often have their political residence in anarchist and socialist groupings with little or no respect for democracy, property rights or the purpose of the hunt. Hunters have been subjected to threats, persecution and vandalism by these masked activists in connection with wolf hunting, search and other hunts. Organizers of hunting dog competitions have also been affected by the ravages of animal activists. In this respect, the police and the judiciary must step up their efforts to ensure that citizens can trust the justice system. Otherwise, the risk is that we will have an escalating situation with the risk that humans and animals will be seriously harmed. We are already beginning to see such tendencies. In Western Sweden, the police have intensified their work against a circle of formerly convicted persons. In Gothenburg-Posten we could read some time ago that there are activists who even justify killing people for the sake of animals. According to the Environmental Code, non-profit associations are granted the right to appeal against certain judgments and decisions related to the Environmental Code. These associations are usually ideologically carried and may have a certain ideological list in their direction. The law and its interpretation are problematic and have a major impact on the opportunities for healthy hunting and game conservation. We therefore believe that the government should clearly investigate the consequences and come back with proposals on how to improve legislation and enforcement. The wild boar tribe is growing strongly in Sweden in some places. At the same time, it is a game that is laborious to manage, as it is a nocturnal and shy animal. I, who live a little more north in Värmland, have never seen a wild boar in the wild, but it may be because they thrive best in the fertile Väner area. It is not as good for them to be in the northern part of Värmland, where there is a lot of snow and cold in winter and more difficult to find food. Therefore, there is more in fertile areas and coastal areas. In some places wild boars cause very costly damage to areal industries. The most effective way to get a successful hunt for wild boar is to hunt at night with bait. There is therefore good reason to simplify administration by having a more permissive regulatory framework for assistive devices, such as lighting and night vision. Mr President, I would like to The EU Birds Directive puts an end to the search for cormorants, which the Swedish Democrats think is wrong. Sweden has a considerable cormorant population with many nesting couples. The increased prevalence affects fish stocks negatively, creates sanitary inconvenience to outdoor life and reduces forest, nature and vegetation where birds nest. Skarven occurs not only in the coastal band but also in inland lakes. In the Swedish archipelago, the cormorant is seen as one of the most numerous bird species. It exists in large parts of the world and is far from endangered. A general hunting time on cormorants would be good from an administrative and also from a conservation perspective. In recent years, the number of seals has also increased along the Swedish coastline, causing serious damage to coastal fishing and putting a heavy financial burden on the industry when fishermen are grappling with both weak fish stocks and growing seal strains. A licence hunt similar to today's regional protection hunt would not pose a significant threat to seal populations. Rather, this could be a way of reducing the conflict between seals and the fishing industry, which is sensing the increased damage to fishing gear and catches. Today's EU legislation also makes trade in Swedish seal products, both meat and skins, impossible. Perhaps this is an issue that should be investigated. The incentives to hunt seals need to be increased, as the protection hunt that is taking place today does not shed the worst number of seals and does not reduce the problems. As I said, a licence hunt would have to give a bigger launch than today's protection hunt. In order to slow down the large growth of the seal population, the licence hunt should at least double the current level of the number of seals shot if it is to make any difference. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats oppose the EU's dictatement of Swedish game management. Sweden already had before EU entry a game management that the rest of the world could watch with envy, and we see no added value in the fact that the EU institutions are now dictating the conditions. In matters relating to game management, we believe that the national parliament should always have the last word and that the government should therefore clearly work to ensure that Sweden takes back the decision-making power regarding the issues contained in the Species and Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive.
i-FyRL6GEKHLv577MMD5ShaL	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we support all our reservations. The Runar Filer requested the approval of reservations 1 and 4. I agree, but I would also like to endorse reservation 20. Sweden's hunters play an important role in society through management, game conservation, protection hunting and the search for traffic-damaged game. Hunting is an important leisure activity, a management of natural resources and an economic activity in the form of hunting tourism. Wild game meat is a high-quality protein source with a very low negative environmental impact. In today's society, game meat should be climate-smart and locally produced meat on the plate much more than it is. Unfortunately, today we see that people live further and further away from nature. Thus, the hunt for many becomes somewhat foreign and negative. You don't realize where the food comes from. It is very worrying that hunters are being threatened and harassed by activists. So here we have people who are prepared to get up in the middle of the night in all the weather to go out and track and kill the traffic damage wild. Last year, more than 60 000 searches were carried out in connection with wild game accidents. The fact that these people, who do society and animals a service by shortening the suffering of animals, are threatened is quite baroque. Attacks on hunters engaged in search and protection hunts should lead to more severe penalties as they carry out an important community mission. The police need to be given the resources to take these crimes seriously in view of the ageing political extremism they constitute. Not least because of what I mentioned earlier about us as people living more and more away from nature as a whole, game management needs to be further decentralised – from European level to national level and from national level down to regional level. People with their own experience and knowledge must be involved in making decisions on these important issues. We Christian Democrats like the principle of subsidiarity, and if there is one area in which it is really to be applied, it is in hunting and game conservation. The regulatory framework for the protection of valuable habitats and species in the EU should be adapted to the different national conditions. The protection of wild animals and endangered species is an issue in which Member States are to regain greater decision-making power. This requires flexibility in view of the very different natural conditions that exist within the EU. Animal and plant species threatened in the southern parts of Europe may be numerous, even harmfully numerous, in the northern Member States. Licensing of wolf and protection hunting on cormorants in archipelago environments are examples of issues to be decided nationally. The hunt is and should be seen as a national matter for managing nature's resources. In all contexts, the Swedish state needs to act in order for hunting issues to be dealt with at the national level and not at EU level. The management of hunting and fishing rights shall take place with as much local and regional influence as possible. Mr President, I would like to The EU directive on species and habitats needs to be updated. Reclassifying the threat status of different species as populations grow or shrink must be made more flexible. It must also be possible in practice to organise protection and licence hunting without excessive appeal periods. The possibility of appropriate hunting is necessary in order to obtain local acceptance for the presence of predators and to make it possible to live and operate in rural areas even where predatory pressures are high. The rules for the protection of predators that attack domestic animals need to be reviewed to make them reasonable on the basis of the reality of individual livestock farmers. The food strategy will only be empty words if predators can be allowed to repeatedly kill scores of animals on a single farm. It is not reasonable for an entrepreneur to operate under such conditions. The Christian Democrats want a viable countryside with food production around our country. Domestic livestock farming shall also be possible in areas with predatory bodies. Then the rules for protection hunting must be adapted to that. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, many people in the country feel that a law applies when predators approach Stockholm, but a completely different one when predators behave unshirkedly out in the countryside. Are we, who live in rural areas, the people of second rank, whose problems and challenges need not be taken seriously? In some regions, not least in my own county of Värmland, the wolf tribe needs to be reduced by licence hunting. Decisions on the number to be shot in the case of licence hunting shall be aligned with the democratically decided targets of the predator strains. None of our Swedish predators are currently endangered. A continued targeted and selective hunt for wolf can be carried out without affecting the favourable conservation status of the wolf. The dense predator strains often have consequences for individual traders, who are sometimes even forced to close down because of wolf attacks. Predators must be able to hunt for protection quickly and effectively when domestic animals are threatened. Account should also be taken of the impact of the predator's body on the elk strain and, in particular, on people's safety and quality of life. Mr President, I would like to Last week I visited desperate fishermen in the Luleå archipelago. In total, there are over 100,000 seals around our coasts, and the seal tribe is increasing. Only in the Gulf of Bothnia do seals eat 120 tons of fish per day. The large stock of seals threatens fishing, partly through competition for catches, partly by destroying gears and partly by increasing the spread of disease in dense seal populations. Hunting quotas must therefore be increased in order to reduce population size. The hunt for cormorants must also be intensified. The geese pose a growing problem in the context of climate change, which means that many canadagäss now remain in the country during the winter. We also see a new species, cranes, making sure that the damage increases. The rules for hunting for seals, cormorants, geese and cranes should be reviewed in order to extend the hunting of these species so that the strains can be kept at a balanced level. The great wild boar tribes, as we have heard before, cause great problems in many places. The farmers pay the highest price when wild boars prune up fields and grasslands with great damage as a result. Wild boars also account for a large number of wildlife accidents in traffic, some 3,000 a year. In addition, many homeowners have had their lawns raised. The wild boar population must be limited by increased hunting. We Christian Democrats believe that hunters should be able to sell wild boar meat more easily. There are currently opportunities for hunters to sell meat from other cloven-hoofed game directly to consumers or to a local shop or restaurant. The requirement for wild boar meat to pass through a game-handling establishment should therefore be reviewed. The meat shall always be required to undergo a trichinae test and it shall be clearly traceable from where the game comes from. We also propose that the State should pay the fee for the Trichinella test. We've been dealing with regulatory simplifications in the past. It is a must for us to have more opportunities to bring down the boar tribe. We propose that hunters should be able to sell game meat for an amount of up to SEK 45 000 per year tax-free. The government should return as soon as possible with proposals on how this can be done in a simple way. Mr President, I would like to As others have mentioned in the past, the implementation of the EU arms directive is another problem – something that is not decided here. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight the subject and point out with emphasis that we Christian Democrats support our previous position. We will not go further in the implementation than is required. Here the government should change and do the right thing. One problem in today's game management is that the issues are handled by various authorities, including the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the county administrative boards and the police. The Christian Democrats, like the majority in the Riksdag, have proposed the creation of a new authority that can take overall responsibility for hunting and game conservation issues. The Swedish Parliament has on several occasions announced to the government that such an authority should be formed, but nothing has happened. The Christian Democrats again propose the creation of a hunting and game conservation agency. It is remarkable, Mr President, that the government has defied Parliament's decision on this matter. A few years ago, the Red-Green Government changed the composition of the game management delegations at the county administrative boards of the country. In this way, the interest in the protection of the environment and nature gained a disproportionate influence in relation to the hunting interest. The balance of the composition should be restored. The game management delegations must belong to the few bodies where knowledge of the core issue is clearly seen as a burden; perhaps they are the only one. Finally, Mr President, every year the Swedish Hunters' Association receives money from the Wildlife Conservation Fund for its work on the hunting and game conservation mission. At present, a decision is made on payments from the Wildlife Conservation Fund for one year at a time, which creates short-termism. It is reasonable that decisions on the financing of the general hunting and game conservation mission should be taken for three years at a time. Sweden's hunters should be shown the respect they deserve!
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-625	Mr President, I would like to As my comrades from the committee have been in the debate, we are debating the annual Committee on Agriculture and the Environment's motion for a resolution on hunting and game conservation. My comrades have also listed what the report is about. I support the committee's proposal as a whole. Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a pioneer country when it comes to managing our natural resources and our wildlife in the best way. We Social Democrats believe that hunting decisions, whether they are moose or our large predators, should therefore be taken as close as possible to the citizens. a It is important to us that, with the management model we have decided on here, we create a high-quality elk strain, which is in balance with grazing resources and takes into account the public interest in predatory bodies, road safety, agriculture, forest damage and the impact on biodiversity. In recent years there has been an increasingly aggressive debate about grazing injuries in fields and in the forest. Several actors talk about the cloven-hoofed game in terms of being comparable to pests that should be sprayed away. This creates unnecessary tension. In several counties the shooting targets for moose, deer, deer and wild boar have been met. This has also brought the debate to bear on hunting times, traps and other ethical aspects. Some landowners have problematized and been running a decommissioned oestrus. We think this is the wrong way to go. Since only 1 per cent of the large forest industry's revenue comes from hunting and felling fees, we see that there are many ways to justify being able to implement the firing targets. It is also important that we let go of the one-sided focus that exists today on the fact that it is only the moose that causes grazing damage. All the cloven-hoofed game is causing damage to the forest. Missing leaves are grazed pine, and if there is too little pine is grazed the pine that is increasingly harder. It is therefore important that we get a collective biungulate administration for the counties that house strains of elk, deer, deer and deer because it is the overall grazing pressure from all cloven-hoofed game that causes the damage to the forest. The hunters and, in particular, the landowners are responsible for managing forests and wildlife in the current management model. We know that the parties who have been given responsibility in the decentralised management model take and want to continue to take joint responsibility. It is important that we stick to that model. Mr President, I would like to Today there are about 300 000 registered hunters. Hunting and game conservation are an essential part of many people's everyday life and quality of life. As my comrades here have previously highlighted, game food is a climate-smart product. It is good and useful on our kitchen tables and in the summer at the grill. For many, this autumn's moose hunt is also the highlight of the year. Not least is the hunt for lice dogs, which is one of mankind's oldest cultural manifestations. It is a tradition that is important to preserve, while the tourism industry offers great opportunities for development. In this way, hunting and wildlife conservation are also of great importance for the countryside to be a good place to live and live. We do not believe that new centralised legislation would make things any better. Sweden is a long country with different conditions. We want to maintain that hunters and landowners are capable of solving together the problems that arise locally and regionally. County administrative boards and wildlife management delegations must take into account grazing damage and public preference. Berry and mushroom picking shall be possible. The prevalence of predatory animals in the counties should be taken into account, and also the assumptions for the 52 per cent of the land area referred to as Sápmi, where the reindeer industry is active, must be taken into account. When it comes to boars, we'll have a lot of damage. They have increased sharply in many areas, which has led to major problems with crops, something that is totally unacceptable. We've had an increase in traffic accidents involving wild boars. We all know that. That special hunting agents, such as simplifying the use of mobile lighting and night vision, would solve the problem of wild boar, I find it difficult to see, but we will work for those parts and a number of other parts to simplify that hunt. It is important that we do this so that we do not have ethically dubious discussions and proposals on trapping. There is reason for the whole of society, not least the authorities, landowners, farmers and hunters, to increase preparedness for the swine fever which, unfortunately, is getting closer to our country's borders. There are myths that we Social Democrats would like to go beyond the arms directive. It's not like that. It is rather the opposite: we have opened to exempt silencers from license. We want the opportunity to have more weapons in the armory. The hunters should in no way be affected by the implementation of the Weapons Directive. We believe that we are giving the hunters new opportunities. A exercise that is being discussed is about cross-country driving. Terrain driving and hunting do not really belong together, but when the moose is shot, the quadricycle is a fantastic vehicle to use to transport the fallen game. At the same time, it is an issue of accessibility and justice for disabled hunters that we ensure that there is equivalent legislation across the country. This is also why an off-road investigation has been set up. When that investigation presents its conclusions in November, the Government will continue to work on the matter and present a proposal to the Riksdag. One reality that affects around the country right now is the reduction in funding to county boards as a result of the SD-supported M-KD budget, which directly affects the work of game and predators. The county boards that are now working on the basis for reporting on sustainable conservation status to the EU have had a rather difficult time when suspensions and redundancies have become a reality. The inventory carried out this winter will also provide the basis for the possibility of license hunting in autumn and next winter. It's bad. It is also bad that this right now will affect efforts to prevent damage to the reindeer industry and the farm. Mr President, I would like to The general mission of the Jägar eförbundet since 1938 is important. You get money from the cash fund paid by the hunters. The hunters also do a very important volunteer work in the mission they have received from the government. On this issue, the EU has expressed its views. There has been a review of whether we need to procure the mission or continue as we do today. For us Social Democrats, this is a top priority. The non-profit commitment of the general mission shall be equated with the support provided to the sports movement or to the educational organisations. We Social Democrats want to strengthen the Swedish model through the non-profit sector, just as we do with outdoor life and study associations. Here the construction with hunting cards has a special position. The hunters pay for this themselves through the hunting card. The general assignment belongs to the Swedish model, point end.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-644	Mr President, I would like to At first I had thought that I would boast that Isak From joined around the principle of subsidiarity. But then Isak From started talking about the arms directive and saying that they do not want to over-implement the arms directive, as we are looking at several points, for example, in the case of storages for cantan-fired ammunition, five-year licences and so on. This really belongs in the Committee on Justice, but there are several of us who are working for this here, and that is why we have raised it. Finally, Isak From raised the budget. In my county of Värmland we have a significant wolf tribe. According to the predator trackers of the county government, the budget has not affected them at all when it comes to the detection of predators. It could also be made much simpler and at a significantly lower cost. Here I have the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's methodology for the inventory of large predators. It is a text of eight pages that describes how to track the wolf and what it takes for a wolf to be counted as a wolf. It's not enough just to see it. It's to be traced, and it's to be traced far. In some cases, it shall be tracked for 15 kilometres at the same time to be counted. Here there are great opportunities to use DNA. A few years ago, a check was made. Hunters and other people who moved out in the woods had to send in spillage so you could check the DNA and compare it against the trace. The result was very well matched with the usual tracking. So we have a huge amount of money to bring home. Instead of spending so much money on tracking, we can make it significantly cheaper by dropping inventory.
i-Pg5LBPWDkpNHfhDqTiuWGw	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson! Money does not matter — well, it does matter when it comes to employment. The budgets of the County Administrative Boards and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have been cut by 40%, and it is quite absurd to say that this would have no impact. I can partly agree with Kjell-Kjell-Arne that we may need to develop new methods. That is why we pushed and implemented the facilitation of game cameras so that more people can use the game cameras that are legally available and get grain on the game that exists. I know it is in any case approved when it comes to lo, wolverine and bear that you use DNA and that you have a dropping inventory where you use the hunters via the general commission to run the collection. In northern Sweden the Sami can be an important part of this. We need to find a model in which we reduce the pressure from the predatory body, for example in Värmland, so that more counties can bear the weight of the objective that the Riksdag has decided on. Everyone agrees that we should have the big predators, that they should exist and that they are an important part of Swedish fauna. Then it becomes problematic every time you come and say that you don't want so many with you. We need to spread this out and find models for how more people can take responsibility.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-651	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for wanting to share the burden, Isak From, for it is quite heavy! Of course, the budget has an impact. The point of presenting a budget is that it should have an impact. But what I said was that it did not affect the tracking of predators, until now when favorable conservation status is to be reestablished. And, as I said, the cost could be substantially reduced by changing the method. When it comes to lynx, I go back to Värmland, which is shared by the Fryken lakes. We had a lynx family on the west side of Fryken and another on the east side. They were not to be counted as two different groups because they were not far enough apart. We who have had cats or know about cats know that they do not bathe, at least not in the icy Fryken. We need to find other ways of tracking predators to see how many we have. As I said, DNA is incredibly important, and we can use it at a significantly lower cost than the cost of tracking miles. There are many points that have to be dotted off for it to be counted as an observation and that it becomes an individual. I hope, Isak From, that we can jointly find a way forward to lower predator pressure, not least in my home country of Värmland.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-656	Mr President, I would like to The county administrative boards have the possibility to reallocate within their allocation. However, when reporting the figures for favourable conservation status and number of rejuvenations, they should be compiled by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. I believe, for example, that in the case of lynx in Västerbotten we had 30 rejuvenations to be reported and about the same for wolverine. We either hope that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency can conjure its knees or that in the new government constellation we can provide the money needed for the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to carry out its important work so that we can, for example, get a licence hunt on wolf in Värmland next year.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-658	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to say much about the good game food and the game management, because many people have spoken well about it. On the other hand, I'm going to talk about the illegal hunt. The distribution of predators in forests and mountains is a subject of conflict in Sweden. There are strong views on this among politicians, hunters, landowners, pet owners, reindeer keepers, beekeepers and animal and naturalists, but also among nature guardians and criminal investigators and environmental prosecutors. The Swedish Parliament has decided that there will be viable strains of bear, wolverine, loo, wolf and royal eagle. In addition, Sweden has an obligation through international commitments to protect these species. The single greatest threat to the predator tribes was previously the illegal hunt. This was one of the reasons why the Riksdag decided on a new predator management in 2013, which meant a legal hunt for wolves thereafter. One hope expressed in the debate before the amendment was that the threat and hatred of predators would decrease and illegal hunting would be made more uninteresting when the law was introduced. The conflict over predators was then expressed in a strong dissatisfaction with the predatory policy pursued and with the managing authorities. The protection hunt was re-regulated in connection with the amendment in order to be able to take account of agriculture, among other things, more quickly. Of course, I think that part is justified. Today, the greatest threat to the wolf is likely to be a combination of the legal hunt and the continuing very large illegal hunt. I feel that the hatred of our wild predators in my 53-year life has never been greater than it is now. Mr President, I would like to Environmental crime includes everything from missed accounts to large-scale organised crime. Common to all environmental crimes is that a relatively small proportion of suspected violations of the environmental code lead to sanctions, despite a well-developed government structure. The system focuses on less serious environmental crime and misses serious and organised environmental crime. The protection of the environment is important. According to chapter one. Section 2, third paragraph, the form of government should generally promote sustainable development that leads to a good environment for present and future generations. The environmental code's penal provision on environmental crime is an important part of the protection. This provision means that anyone who harms the environment must be punished. For a long time, environmental crime has been highlighted as a legal area where serious organised crime can be seen to be involved and a clear link with economic crime, for example in the management of waste, but also in trade in endangered animals and plants. Relatively, few serious environmental crimes have been discovered in Sweden. The European Commission highlights in the country report on Sweden, which has been produced in its review of the implementation of EU environmental policy, in particular that methods of promoting compliance can be improved in Sweden. The survey shows that there are several structural problems in the enforcement activities in general and in the prosecution of environmental crimes. The European Commission highlights the importance of a risk-based approach and states that cooperation between supervisory authorities, police and prosecutors should be improved in order to increase the likelihood of serious infringements being prosecuted. Offences against the Environmental Code have among the longest throughput times from notification to decision. This is highlighted from several quarters as a weak link in the justice chain. The fact that reports may lie before the police take the first and sometimes decisive investigative measures is problematic, as proof is urgently needed. There, hunting crimes come in as a clear example, where weather and wind can make it impossible to determine what has happened. Adequate resources and expertise of the police dealing with suspected environmental crimes are crucial for the effective handling of environmental crime reports. We need to talk much more about the illegal hunt for wolves. According to Viltskadecenter, illegal hunting is extensive in relation to the Scandinavian wolf tribe. This affects the status of the tribe. According to Brottsförebyggande rå, it is known that skins and other parts from shot predators are in some cases taken into account and that the parts have an economic value on the black market. Brå further points out that suspected illegal hunting needs to be investigated quickly and that special demands are made on the police in order to secure evidence in forest and land. Brå suggests that cooperation between administration, research and justice should be improved and that the networks responsible for the sale of killed predators should be tracked down and police work broken down. I cannot interpret this in any other way than the constant escalation of threats to predators, and I see this as an ominous sign that right-wing parties now want to stop the possibility of dialogue between the hunting interest and the representatives of the Nature Conservation Association and the natural tourism operators by preventing them from participating in the game management delegations. In a motion, the Moderates point out that they advocate a more balanced composition of delegations by removing stakeholders of nature conservation interests. It would be more reasonable to review how strongly the hunter's interest is represented, because it has been told to me that for some reason there are very many representatives of the parties who are hunters and who represent the hunting interest rather than the general interest of the wildlife management delegations. The Swedish democrats want to go so far as to stop all contributions to environmental organisations, although these contributions aim to educate local representatives on all kinds of environmental issues and not just on predatory issues, or to enable environmental organisations to participate legally in legal cases, such as air pollution in urban areas or major industrial establishments, or in the final disposal of nuclear waste and not just in matters surrounding predators. It is neither democratic, neat nor particularly sensible to exclude non-profit nature conservation. Collaboration and consensus and compliance is what builds Sweden stronger. This is one of the reasons why the illegal hunt for predators must be stopped and that interest in it needs to be increased in the Swedish Parliament.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-674	Mr President, I would like to Of course, Maria Gardfjell uses her time to talk about what she wants. But it is still remarkable to use almost the whole speech to talk about illegal hunting and not about the opportunity that hunting gives us and what it actually means to Sweden. Crime prevention The Centre is quite clear about what is going to be done to reduce illegal hunting. That is to increase the legal hunt. I would like to ask Maria Gardfjell what evidence she has of this enormous poaching. How does she think we should go about getting greater acceptance for predators, so that we do not get the huge poaching that she claims we have? There's no way to defend illegal hunting. But we can still ask ourselves why it exists. There's got to be a reason.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-677	Mr President, I would like to Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson asked me why I am not talking about the positive that the hunt gives. It is because, as I said at the outset, I think that a great many good things have been said here about it. I think game is very good food. As many have pointed out, it is also climate-smart and good in many ways. Now that I have the opportunity to talk a little about this when Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson asks questions, I would like to say that I sympathise very much with the views that have been expressed on, for example, wild boar issues. I think we need brand new ways to push back the boar tribe and find new hunting opportunities. Several speakers have spoken very well about this in the past. The reason I am highlighting the issue of illegal hunting is precisely because there are several actors who have pointed out that it is not the case that we have lost the illegal hunt when the legal hunt has been released. It is extremely worrying that this is the case. I had hoped that things would have turned out as hoped when the new legislation came into being. Unfortunately, however, it seems that hatred and the threat to predators are on the increase and that contradictions are increasing. What I think is the solution to this is increased dialogue and increased cooperation and that we here in the Swedish Parliament are trying to find ways to reduce hatred against predators.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-680	Mr President, I would like to I feel that I might not really have received answers to my questions from Maria Gardfjell. That's why I'm gonna ask you something else. Of course, Maria Gardfjell is free to talk about what she wants from the speaker's seat, as I said earlier. As far as game management missions are concerned, the hunter side has a delegate in them and the policy has five. So it is actually the political influence that is quite heavy. When the Green Party has representatives in various organisations and gives them different assignments, is it not looking for those who know the questions in substance? Or is the Green Party trying to get people who are completely ignorant? I don't think so. I would think that the Green Party wants its representatives who are knowledgeable in this area, so that it is hunters who are also politicians who sit there. That's obvious, isn't it? At least it is to me. Each chair in the game management delegations is set up with persons who have gained the trust of their organisation or stakeholders. This trust should be respected by others regardless. It surprises me, therefore, that Maria Gardfjell believes that the hunters' side apparently has too much influence in the game management delegations and that they should not have this influence.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-684	Mr President, I would like to When we talk about getting a balance in the game management delegations, as we talk about in motions on this, I am surprised. As I have been told, this balance is hardly so good. In terms of political participation, many of the politicians involved have been hunters in very many counties. And of course the Environmental Party representatives in the administrative delegation are people who may have a different background, as Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson mentions. I think that any politician who is involved in this type of mission needs to use the knowledge they have, whether it is knowledge as a hunter or knowledge as a conservationist. But they must represent the public interest.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-686	Mr President, I would like to Member Maria Gardfjell! My questions concern how the Green Party wants the Swedish wolf population to be managed. How many wolves are we gonna have? Should it be decided in Sweden or in the EU? Parliament's decision from 2013 on the bill for a sustainable predatory policy meant that the reference value for a favourable conservation status would be somewhere between 170 and 270 wolves. The Environmental Protection Agency settled on that at 270. A few years ago, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency concluded that the reference level for favourable conservation status could be 300 wolves, but only on condition that at least one new immigrant contributes every five years with new genes to the wolf strain. Authorities must comply with Parliament's decisions. And it is the government's responsibility to ensure that this happens. Nevertheless, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has raised the number of favourable conservation status to 300 wolves, although the Riksdag has decided that favourable conservation status should be 170 – 270. However, if reproduction with new immigrants does not take place every wolf generation, according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's appointed investigation and commissioned research report, the Scandinavian tribe would consist of at least 1,700 wolves to meet the genetic conservation criteria and thus be considered to have favourable conservation status. Will the Green Party, as a government party, work to house thousands of wolves in Sweden if it turns out that there is not an immigrant wolf from the Finnish-Russian population every five years?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-690	Mr President, I would like to Fortunately, I have some biological education at the bottom. So I know a little about conservation issues. What is absolutely most important is that we comply with the legislation we have. But the facts and research on which our authorities and the government base their knowledge must of course also be based on science and research. As the honourable Member points out, this is a complex and complex approach. And more knowledge comes about genetic conservation biology. Here I see that there is not a huge difference between the figures that have been presented, either in terms of the assessment from when the legislation came into being or in terms of the assessments that have been made later. But when I once studied biology at Stockholm University, I was told that between 400 and 500 wolves were needed to achieve good genetic value. It has thus been refined over the years. Now you look at it this way.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-694	Mr President, I would like to Of course, facts and research are great. You're supposed to base things on that. But there are many research reports that show that it is scientifically established that there must be at least 150 wolves for the wolf tribe to be viable. This figure is also the Swedish J owners' association's starting point. To this the EU has said that the nations should have a higher level of ambition. However, from those reports, all the wolf numbers that exceed 150 are actually purely political decisions. In Canada and Alaska, deaths have occurred as late as 2005 and 2010. It's the same in former Soviet republics. There you read as closely about wolf attacks with a fatal outcome. Is the strain of C anis lupus in Sweden – it is the same genetic species that exists in Canada, Alaska and Russia – less dangerous than those found in North America and Russia? Are they not a danger to people here in Sweden? Perhaps you are founded to stop hunting and your desire to have a much larger wolf population on the belief that the wolf is not dangerous at all? The question is whether the same species that kills and attacks in other countries could not do so in Sweden as well. It's a matter of keeping a tight hunting pressure. Studies show that out of 80 known wolf attacks in the United States and Canada, all 80 have taken place in areas where there is no hunting pressure on the wolf. As for your attack here before, of course, we want environmental organisations to be anchored in the area where they appeal decisions. Hunting decisions should be taken locally and regionally and not by organisations that are barely there, which only exist as Facebook groups or barely have any business. That's what we're turning against. The organisational requirement itself to appeal decisions must be reviewed.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-699	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to research and research reports, it is just like in the climate area; you have to compile all the research to see how you should then stand. So listening to just one researcher does not help. You have to make a balance. And that's what the Environmental Protection Agency has done. That's a very important question you're raising, Runar Filer. I believe that we as politicians need to learn more about how we learn from research. Regarding environmental organisations, one of the previous speakers told us that hunters are a popular movement with many members. It is exactly the same with the Nature Conservation Association and other environmental organisations. It is also a popular movement with a lot of members. The other representatives represent ecotourism. It is an industry that is growing strongly and has a great interest in the survival of predators. It's extremely important. When it comes to whether the wolf is dangerous or not, no such type of event has occurred in Sweden. In our neighbouring country, Estonia, a rather interesting thing happened just last week. A wolf went through the ice and was saved by people who helped the wolf survive.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-704	Mr President, I would like to To begin with, I would like to say that this feels a little strange. In principle, the report we have discussed today is not about wolves and predators at all. But at least I'm going to respond to what was said about us Moderates. Illegal hunting is absolutely never something that can be defended. However, as someone said before, there is a reason why illegal hunting should occur if it occurs. It is people who are worried about and who live with frustration that they do not think that Sweden has managed to get a functioning predator management. They are encountered all the time in the counties where we have the most powerful predators. As far as the wildlife management delegations and the Moderates' focus are concerned, it is not quite what Maria Gardfjell said about our wanting to remove the interest in nature conservation. What the Moderates have said is that we want to return to the original formation of the game management delegations. There the conservation interests have their representative just as the forest has its own, the users have theirs and the hunt has its own. The politicians then have five mandates. I say, as someone has said before, that it seems strange if the politicians in that situation do not appoint someone who has a hunting interest and interest in wild animals and game conservation. It's probably the kind of person who wants the mission. I also believe that this person is capable of making decisions that rhyme with both game conservation and hunting. Therefore, I think that Maria Gardfjell card can tell me how she thinks politics should not represent her interests.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-709	Mr President, I would like to I think it is extremely important for the political representatives in the game management delegations to represent the general interest. Part of the general interest is that you should be reasonably informed about what the legislation looks like, so that the decisions you contribute to in the game management delegations do not conflict with applicable Swedish law. I think that is a good starting point, but unfortunately that is not the case. On the issue of the composition of game management missions, I find it unfortunate that the Moderates do not see the great value of the presence of representatives of ecotourism companies in this context, because it is an industry based on both hunting-related tourism and tourism dealing with different species affected by hunting. In today's edition of Altinget, ecotourism companies have written an interesting article. It is certainly about the forest, but it is said that the forest debate must be broadened because tourism activities are now bringing so much more jobs than the forestry industry contributes through forestry. This is also a business issue that I hope the Moderates will continue to work on.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-712	Mr President, I would like to The lawfulness of politicians can certainly vary, and I am convinced that this applies in all organisations to which we appoint politicians. When it comes to politicians who end up in game management delegations, I think it is very much about them ending up there because they are people in their respective parties who have knowledge of hunting and game conservation. They probably also run the hunting and game conservation policies of each party when they sit there. They are there on a political mandate for a political party, and that party has a hunting and game conservation policy. Then they want to pursue this policy well when they sit on that kind of chair. It may well vary a little in the game management delegations in terms of which chairs there are. In my home country of Östergötland tourism had a place even before these last two mandates came into being, so I think the places can vary a little between different game management delegations. We Moderates are absolutely in favour of nature tourism. Natural tourism, hunting, forestry and agriculture must be able to go hand in hand, because they all represent business opportunities. That's not how we disagree. Enough about this – I think we have finished debating the wildlife management delegations.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-717	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, it would perhaps be reasonable now to review how the hunter's interest is represented in the game management delegations. This is an interesting issue, as is also evident from this discussion and debate. I think it is important for us – when we talk about balance – to try to be broad on this issue. John Widegren previously asked a question about illegal hunting, to which I did not have time to answer. The new legislation on our predators was introduced in 2013. It was then hoped that illegal hunting would be reduced when legislation was amended and licence hunting was created. However, this does not seem to be the case. I therefore find it worrying that the threat to our predators' tribes, which we want to have a good conservation status, has increased as there is both licence hunting and illegal hunting. This is an issue that we need to address. I hope that the Moderates, along with the Green Party and others, are prepared to address these serious criminal issues.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-721	Mr President, I would like to Justice is often something that moves people to engage in politics. It is about injustice that permeates our society and our structures too clearly to this day. My reason for engaging me politically is the injustice between us humans and all the other beings with whom we share the planet. In the Green Party, we feel solidarity with all animals and plants. We believe that all living things have the right to live and the right to exist regardless of any benefit to us humans. This seems to me to be a matter of course. The most terrible word I know is eradication. Yet there is a frighteningly strong link between man's advance and the extinction of animals, especially large predators. We have seen them as a threat – as a danger to minimize – and sometimes we have chosen to actively eradicate them. Mr President, I would like to It can be excused as an old instinct to defend our own race, and I can somehow accept it as a bad excuse. Maybe back then we didn't know any better. At the time, there was no data and no research or knowledge about how large populations needed to survive in the long term. There was no picture of the range of species or the fragility of populations. But today there is this, and we know that top computers are extremely important for the entire ecosystem. Moreover, we are committed to preserving all species within the borders of the nation. That is why I cannot accept a policy of fishing and hunting endangered animals. Mr President, I would like to The existence of a species must not be determined by a hobby or an economic special interest. I want to see predator strains that are long-term viable, and therefore I cannot accept the licensing of wolves, lynx and wolverine. On the other hand, those affected must be replaced. I want to ban the fishing of eel and other endangered species and end the bottom trawling. Mr President, I would like to I want to see a future where we do not work against nature but with it – an approach where we let life thrive in the wild instead of trying to control and inhibit it. I and my party are going to fight for the natural policy that will get us out of the era of mass extinction and into a time that is flourishing in biodiversity.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-732	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps we should have more of a philosophical debate on Rebecka Le Moines's speech, but since we do not have time for that, I would rather ask a slightly sharper question. The representative said she can't accept a license hunt on wolf, lynx or wolverine, if I understood it correctly. How does Rebecka Le Moine think we're going to get an acceptance for predators if we can't have a license hunt on them? The Centre for Crime Prevention has said that this is the means to bring down the illegal hunt.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-735	Mr President, I would like to Licensing is something that, according to the EU's directive on species and habitats, should not really happen. On the other hand, there is protection hunting as a tool in cases where there are wolves that are very close and there is reason to remove a particular individual. What we have seen since the licence hunt was introduced is not a better location. The illegal hunt has continued to increase, and it has in no way produced any positive results, that we accept the wolf the more people are being shot. It's the other way around. We can go back to the facts of history and see that it doesn't work to just shoot more and more of an endangered animal.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-739	Mr President, I would like to I didn't get an answer to my question about how we're going to work to get more acceptance. The wolf is a dog animal and is easy to learn. If you were to hunt a wolf, even if you weren't to shoot at it, it would learn that those people are dangerous; we shouldn't be near them. As it is today, the wolf does not feel that way, because it is not hunted that way. Under the Berne Convention, predator strains crossing land borders are to be managed as a strain. Today we have a predator's tribe in Sweden and one in Norway. Some wolves count in Sweden and some in Norway. The wolves who live at my house are like half wolves, because they are a bit in Sweden and a little in Norway. But according to the Berne Convention, they are to be counted as a tribe. Research and science, which I have repeatedly discussed earlier here today, have concluded that we would be able genetically to have a wolf strain of more than 30 animals if there were a new immigrant wolf from Finland or Russia every five years. Then a disaster scenario was added and came up to 100 wolves like MVP. According to science, therefore, 100 wolves in Scandinavia would suffice. Now we have decided here in the Swedish Parliament that there should be between 170 and 270 wolves. Then the Environmental Protection Agency has turned the number up to 300, and now you want to screw it up even more. How many wolves does Rebecka Le Moine think we should have in Sweden to have a favourable conservation status so that we can actually start hunting?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-745	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kjell-Arne-Otto Ottosson, for the question that was repeated! I can also repeat my answer, which is that we will not solve acceptance by shooting more wolf. In retrospect, we have not solved the acceptance issue by shooting more wolf. I can fill in the answer by speculating a little bit about how we can get away from the scare-propaganda around the wolf. It is seen as an extremely dangerous animal, although there has been no death since the 19th century, as far as we know, unless account is taken of the incident on Kolmården. We have also signed another convention, the Convention on Biological Diversity, in which we are committed to preserving species within the borders of the nation. With regard to what science says, we hear that there is a rather large span in this chamber debate – there is talk of everything from 50 to 100 wolves to 1,000 wolves. And this is science. We have to rely on scientists and science. And we have an authority called the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which has developed guidelines for a favourable conservation status. On this basis, as politicians, we can do politics and make decisions. I refer back to the Environmental Protection Agency's figures.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-750	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates are behind all our reservations in the report, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 1, a non-toxic environment. I'm usually asked what it's like to have a baby now compared to 25 years ago-- well, we got a skid two years ago. I usually say that it is of course easier because I have gone through it twice before but that in a way it is more difficult, because today I am aware of what affects us people and our environment. I am simply more worried about my son today than I was about my two older children. And I think more parents than I am when you think about the future in terms of the environment. How much is the growth of my son and other children affected by various emissions and chemicals? Mr President, I would like to We are surrounded daily by thousands of chemicals in our daily lives. Some of them can benefit us and others harmful. Many are vital and have been crucial to building the society we have today. And given the knowledge we have today through research and science, it is extremely important that we pursue a policy that makes a difference in a positive sense. If we can choose a non-toxic everyday life for ourselves, but above all for our children, yes, Mr President, then we shall do so. Everything else is just stupid. Chemicals have, among other things, allowed longer durability for food, durable building materials and reduced risk of fire in electronics products. Chemicals also enable the development of medicines that prolong and save lives. Our modern society depends in many ways on innovations that benefit from chemicals. At the same time, there are risks. Some chemicals are so dangerous that they should be banned, while the use of chemicals that are less dangerous can be regulated with other instruments. With increasing use of chemicals there is a responsibility for which chemicals we spread and how these affect the environment and people. Some chemicals have been shown to affect us negatively with substances that can cause cancer, allergies or affect the possibility of having children. It has also been shown that children are particularly sensitive to the effects of harmful chemicals, as they are still growing and their organs are not fully developed. It is therefore important to reduce the risk of our children being exposed to harmful chemicals found in certain toys, sofas and kitchen utensils available in, for example, preschools. There, the Alliance has laid a good foundation for a chemicals policy that will hold for the future. Some of these harmful chemicals are regulated by legislation. However, there are many environmentally and health hazardous chemicals that are not yet regulated. We Moderates want to change that, and we assume that the government will speed up this work. Mr President, I would like to There is, as I said, considerable research into the impact of chemicals on the environment and human health. But research is often done on one subject at a time. The fact that research has so far looked like it does depends on the structure of the legislation. Therefore, research on so-called combined effects is largely lacking, i.e. what happens when several different chemicals cross. The chemical mix to which people are exposed today is becoming increasingly complex. It is also important here that the government acts more forcefully. One way of circumventing a ban on a particular chemical may sometimes be to create a similar substance where some minor component is replaced but the basic properties remain unchanged. This means that the new chemical, which has similar or the same properties as the regulated chemical, is allowed on the market until it is also regulated. In order to take action against proven hazardous chemicals and to speed up their regulation, legislation should be made possible in some cases to regulate substances with similar characteristics in groups. We have seen this very much in the field of net drugs, where the legal apparatus is with its hands tied behind the back. Here the government should work within the EU to make such legislation possible. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we are used to having good access to clean water, but today the load on our treatment plants is very high. Many of the chemicals, nutrients and other substances present in the water are not able to handle or purify the treatment plants. According to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, more than half of Swedish lakes and watercourses are adversely affected to some extent. Preventive action is needed to halt development. With the growing number of chemicals currently used in various products, treatment plants, among other things, need to be equipped with new technologies that reduce drug residues, as the problems of drug residues along with other persistent pollutants in drinking water only increase. Since 2007, the EU has had chemicals legislation, called REACH, to create common rules in the internal market. This has made the legislation more comprehensive and ambitious, while increasing the environmental benefits. However, we must ensure that all countries follow it, which in itself is a challenge. It is also important that Sweden continues to promote a coherent European chemicals policy that focuses on EU legislation rather than Swedish specific requirements. This must not mean, however, that certain issues are being drawn on a long-term basis, such as, for example, assuming that in the near future we would receive a long-term message from the EU about the use of glyphosate. EU chemicals legislation is good, but it needs to be more comprehensive. Here the government needs to work more intensively. Mr President, I would like to Chemicals are around us all the time. It should not be required to be a chemist in order to be able to choose non-toxic alternatives as a consumer. There should be no double-moralising short-term decisions. Öland onions are a typical example of how wrong things could have gone if the Moderates hadn't pushed the government. If a specific pesticide had been banned and Swedish farmers had had to shut down, we would have had to import onions from abroad that were sprayed with the same pesticides because it is allowed in these countries. Or what if, instead of using nuclear power in the future, we need to buy electricity from coal power plants, where carbon dioxide emissions are not only harmful to us humans but also the greatest climate threat? Where is the logic of such decisions? The answer is that there is no logic. It's just gonna be stupid. We must continue to set high standards in order to reduce the amount of hazardous chemicals, not least for our children's sake. We need a sustainable chemicals policy with a toolbox containing various measures to achieve the goal of a non-toxic everyday life. We need to understand, take in and plan for the complex nature of today's and the future's threats to our society and our democracy in many areas. Mr President, I would like to Chemicals, contagions and the damage that other environmental impacts can do go beyond the boundaries of the ministry and government. It is important that the government does something to guarantee our citizens a safe life. We cannot leave our children and young people in the lurch by getting caught up in pipe thinking when we are planning for a secure future. As I said earlier, if we can choose a nontoxic everyday life for ourselves and, above all, for our children, we will do it.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-772	Mr President, I would like to I support all the reservations of the Swedish Democrats, but for time to come, I only support reservations 5 and 19. Much of what we associate with human development boils down to chemistry and chemicals. We use chemicals to purify water and prevent epidemics. Medicines are chemicals, and I would also like to say that the manufacture of almost every object in this House has involved chemistry and chemicals in one way or another. But the coin has a back side. In the 1960s, for example, about 10,000 children with malformations were born because pregnant women had taken a certain kind of sleeping pill. In Sweden it is known as the Neurosedyn scandal. It had been missed that the active substance was present in two stereoisomers, one of which was the development of the injured foetus. But it was a product that was produced in the 1950s, and scientists are much wiser and more cautious today. This is certainly the case, but as recently as 2011, the Swedish Medical Products Agency confirmed that a vaccine against swine flu, given in 2009-2010, proved to be responsible for several cases of narcolepsy among young people. This shows that experts and authorities cannot anticipate all risks. But does that mean that we should ban vaccines in general? No. Many chemicals are very useful and useful products but directly dangerous if handled incorrectly. All in all, therefore, we have to deal with both benefits and risks, and that is why we politicians need to take a balance where we put people's safety and health first and then we really listen to what science wants to say to us. Sometimes we should stop and ask ourselves if there is any risk we have missed. Not all concerns are justified, but the goal must be for everyone to feel confident that society protects both individuals and ecosystems from chemical risks. The precautionary principle is of fundamental importance here. Mr President, I would like to As we describe in our chemical motion, the way forward should therefore be characterised by both prudence and public education, science, innovation and ever-improved knowledge of the effects of chemicals on living organisms. New smart chemicals have the potential to reduce human impact on nature while modern, functional products come onto the market. Research and development activities in agrochemicals and ecotoxicology should have this objective. To have unrealistic and unscientific objectives of eliminating chemicals or the like can be seen in this context as counterproductive, especially if their only real effect is that activities such as agriculture and industry move from Sweden to other countries. We in the Swedish Democrats are also waiting for sweeping bans that can cover thousands of subjects. Of course, in case of uncertainty, one can rather convict than free in individual cases, but this should be assessed on a case-by-case basis. We shall also take a realistic view in this debate. Chemicals policy is largely regulated at EU level, which is a logical consequence of the internal market. If a substance is allowed in other countries and can be imported into Sweden, it is also permitted here. However, one issue of a national nature is the so-called chemical tax, i.e. the excise duty on certain consumer electronics such as mobile phones, microwaves, tablets, washing machines, etc. Actually, it should be called something else, perhaps punishing-Swedish-consumer-tax or buying-home electronics-outside-tax. A study published by HUI Research shows that the chemical tax has hit Swedish trade hard with revenue loss of SEK 5.6 billion per year. The effect of the tax, which may amount to SEK 320 per item, means that every tenth purchase has moved from Swedish stores to foreign websites – and that is exactly what we warned about. I nominate the so-called chemical tax for one of Sweden's worst taxes because it punishes consumers and erodes the tax base while its environmental benefits must be summarised as non-existent. One area that should be given greater attention is the effect of medicines on nature. For example, the non-prescription painkiller diclofenac and contraceptive pills are difficult to break down, and they continue to be biologically active even after they have ended up in our lakes and streams. We are increasingly using medicines, and in most cases medicines play a role in human health and well-being. But with that said, it may be time to take a holistic approach to this. Perhaps there are other painkillers that have less impact on the environment? How do we reduce the use of medicines that affect the environment? The Swedish Democrats want a study to be set up to see if an environmental review could be designed as part of the authorisation process for pharmaceuticals. Environmental policy is often characterised by conflict of objectives. Yes, we can partly switch to electric power in the transport sector, which would probably improve the air quality of our major cities. But this means increased extraction of metals and large-scale production of batteries. It's high-level chemical technology. It's just a statement. The world's population has tickled past seven billion. The vision must be that these seven or eight billion people will have access to food, clean water, medicines and other supplies. These nearly nine billion people will be calling for both consumer electronics and environmentally friendly transport. At the same time, we must maintain clean seas and ecosystems in balance. In this context, the chemists and chemicals are not criminals but perhaps mankind's best friends. Let us take advantage of their opportunities, but preferably with reason and a reasonable dose of caution.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-792	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that, of course, we in the Center Party support all our reservations in the report, but for the time to come, I only call for reservation No 6. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has long been pushing for a nontoxic everyday life. We want to see a development where we sometimes ban and also phase out dangerous substances and stimulate the introduction of alternatives that are better for both our health and our environment. It goes without saying to us that consumers should be able to be sure that goods and foodstuffs in their environment do not contain substances that are harmful to themselves, to their children or to their environment. The development of a non-toxic circular economy is also a prerequisite for reducing the environmental impact and achieving the environmental and climate objectives we have jointly set in this House. At the same time, this also means creating jobs in new and green growth. Work for a non-toxic everyday life and the transition to a green economy may seem insurmountable. It's a challenge. But it's a challenge we have to face up to. We have great potential in Sweden to create innovative renewable materials and products that require less energy and material consumption and that do not harm either man or the environment. Through our technical expertise and opportunities such as Swedish forest raw materials, we have great opportunities to become world leader in the green economy. Sweden is also at the forefront in protecting children and adults from harmful chemicals, and we recycle much more than in the rest of Europe. It is, of course, still a major challenge to reach an economy that is circular with non-toxic cycles. It will take solid work to get us there. However, with the political proposals for a non-toxic everyday life and a growing bioeconomy proposed by the Center Party, among other things in this report, we are setting a framework and taking major steps in the right direction. Sweden has a large and very successful chemical industry. It has a very important role to play in the transition. It can be absolutely crucial to develop and produce the alternatives that need to be made to phase out the harmful substances and to seize the potential of chemicals that can often be good and produced by Swedish forest raw materials. It must be given the opportunity to play that role. To name a few priority measures to achieve the goal of a non-toxic everyday life, we want to see proper tightening up of European chemicals legislation. At the initiative of the Center Party, Sweden has pushed for a ban on the endocrine disrupting substance bisphenol A in Europe. Another group of substances that we work to phase out into consumer products are the highly fluorinated substances, PFAS. They are persistent in nature and are suspected of being carcinogenic and endocrine disrupting to us humans. Work to regulate substances in EU chemicals legislation REACH needs to go faster, and Sweden should be the driving force to increase that protection. An interesting direction for Sweden to take is to review the possibility of working with more powerful instruments to reduce the use of the candidate substances that are identified but have not yet been banned in the work on chemicals legislation at EU level. We know that REACH is sometimes too cumbersome, but at national level we have the opportunity to take precedence. This is an opportunity that we should take much more advantage of than we do today. Mr President, I would like to Another area where more measures are needed to ensure the non-toxic everyday life is the use of chemicals in construction materials and articles. These are materials that we are constantly in contact with in our homes, at work and in care and care but where you as an individual have little opportunity to influence what you surround yourself with. Experience from past mistakes and ignorance about radon, for example, shows the consequences if you do not make the right choice of material from the beginning. The Center Party wants a European regulatory framework to be put in place with requirements for the presentation of chemical content in building materials and that it is visible on the declaration of contents. There is currently also a lack of transparency in the content of these materials within ECHA. In Sweden, we want to speed up the work and secure the consumer from harmful substances in construction products used for floors, walls, ceilings and other purposes and investigate the possibility of subjecting them to a chemical tax. One challenge to achieve this is to construct our legislation and regulatory systems wisely within the European system. Not only should we have high standards in Sweden and Europe, but the systems should also be able to handle imports and global trade. That is why we need to put a lot of gunpowder into including e-commerce and import goods in the economic instruments and legislation we have here in Sweden and on which we decide sharply. Of course, we need to do a solid job at international level as well. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to point out that the chemicals policy is very much alive in the January agreement. The agreement involves, among other things, the use of economic instruments to change society in an environmentally friendly direction and the introduction of taxes on dangerous chemicals in clothing and footwear. The agreement between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals is in this area entirely in line with the policy of the Center Party. It is also we who have pushed extra. During the term of office, the agreement also means that those proposals will make the content of a product much more transparent to the consumer. We are proud of what we have achieved in the January agreement. We are convinced that this represents major steps towards a non-toxic everyday life and a circular economy. But as always, we will not be happy with it. We will ensure that it is developed, implemented and that the opportunities provided for further policy development will be exploited. Our ultimate goal is a sustainable society.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-804	Mr President, I would like to We are, of course, in favour of all the reservations expressed by the KD, but I would like to endorse Amendment No 9 on bisphenols. We all want to feel confident that we are not exposed to toxins in our daily lives. The chemicals around us generally help us in various ways. At the same time, we need to know that there is someone who keeps track of the content of everything that is produced. Is this a substance that harms human health? Is this a substance that harms the environment? Through Sweden's membership of the EU, very much of the chemicals policy lies at EU level. The Christian Democrats want the EU acquis to give individual Member States greater opportunities to introduce stricter rules for environmental reasons in order to take precedence over environmental policy. In practice, the European Commission and the European Court of Justice have been very restrictive about this possibility. For example, Denmark has been forced to remove the ban on the harmful additives nitrite, nitrate and sulphite in sausages. The Christian Democrats believe that a higher political ambition to protect the environment or human health itself should be reason enough to introduce stricter rules in a Member State. Mr President, I would like to As we have heard before, our children are particularly sensitive to chemicals. Political decisions shall be taken with this in mind in order to protect children and young people in particular. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that a public actor who carries out activities for children and conducts a procurement should have the right to state for himself what environmental and health requirements should apply, unless the other party can prove that the requirements are unwarranted. This would range from toys and baby bottles to food and drink consumed primarily by children in the activities. With the Christian Democrats' proposal, for example, a municipality could run a pre-school with a non-toxic profile with demands that go beyond what the European Court of Justice considers proportionate. It is then that operators and users decide what they are prepared to pay to achieve the desired quality. This means that the most closely concerned determine which measures are proportionate. It is sometimes pointed out that California could not have been a driving force in environmental development if the state had been a member of the European Union instead of the United States. Our proposal also increases the opportunities for EU Member States' public actors to act as a driving force. Mr President, I would like to Bisphenol A is a substance with several health and environmental hazards. In the EU, bisphenol A has been banned in baby bottles and baby food packs. Since December 2015, the European Commission has introduced limit values for bisphenol A in toys for children under three years of age and toys intended to be put in the mouth. This is a step in the right direction, but it is time to move on and ban all forms of bisphenols, because other types of bisphenols are also harmful. Many drinking water sources in Sweden are contaminated with persistent and toxic perfluorinated and polyfluorinated chemicals known as PFAS. Drinking water supplies for as many as 3 1⁄2 million inhabitants of our country may be contaminated by PFAS. Different PFAS compounds exist with a number of applications, including in fire-extinguishing foams as well as in various industrial processes. The Christian Democrats are proposing a ban on all PFAS substances, except where it can be demonstrated that the environmental and health characteristics are acceptable. Eco-labelling and allergy labelling are important tools for consumers to make wise choices of products. However, there is a fragmentation of labelling that can lead to confusion and a lack of coherence on the eligibility criteria. The Christian Democrats want to encourage the consolidation and standardisation of product labelling. Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned yesterday in the debate on the circular economy, there is already a producer responsibility for medicines. This means that a producer without compensation should take care of waste consisting of, among other things, leftover medicines. Medications and residues of drugs in our waste water require additional treatment at wastewater treatment plants, and many times it is not enough to completely reduce environmental toxins. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that an investigation be carried out into how a producer responsibility for the negative environmental impact of medicinal products should be designed. Pharmaceuticals play a key role in informing patients about those medicines that have a particularly negative impact on the environment. The Christian Democrats have proposed the introduction of a pharmaceutical range, i.e. a new level of pharmaceutical classification that makes more medicines non-prescription, provided that they are sold behind the counter and together with the consultation of pharmacists. This range of medicines could also include medicinal products with a high environmental impact. The pharmacist is then given the opportunity to inform about how the medicine should be handled in order to minimise the adverse effect on the environment. The greatest effects of drugs occur when residues end up in wastewater, as we have heard before. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency states in a report from 2017 that there is a need to introduce advanced treatment of drug residues in wastewater. Such purification would also lead to the purification of other undesirable substances. Mr President, I would like to Another measure that needs to be taken to reduce the environmental risks of medicinal products is to avoid unnecessary disposal of medicinal products. Today, 75% of leftover drugs are collected. In an international comparison, this is high, but the proportion needs to be even higher. When it comes to cans and PET bottles, we reach up to 90 percent in return. This level of ambition should also be achieved for medicinal products in the near future.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-815	Mr President, I would like to It's all chemistry. I cut that headline out and had it put on my refrigerator for many years. I am a trained chemist and have lived in the world of chemistry for many years. It's a fascinating world and an area that I love. It offers many opportunities for us humans, but at the same time it can pose great threats. A key figure for the modern environmental movement was the marine biologist and author Rachel Carson. She took in her book Silent Spring up a wide range of chlorinated organic chemicals, such as heptachlor, dieldrin and aldrin. But the most famous name, the very image of an environmental poison, is DDT. The molecule is slowly transformed in nature into, among other things, the extremely long-lasting substance DDE, which is enriched in fat. An animal that ingests the poison is eaten by another animal, and on the way through the food chain the levels rise. In warm-blooded animals, the hormonal balance is disturbed, which causes, among other things, the eggs of the sea eagles to be so thin that the eggs dry out or burst before the embryo is fully developed. The birds disappear, and we get a quiet spring. Quiet spring is on several lists of the world's most important technical books. It makes up with a naive belief that chemistry can quickly and easily adjust nature to human needs, a belief that was long widespread even in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to A report in Dagens Nyheter almost 75 years ago shows how the hopes of chemical miracle cures could look. On August 23, 1944, the newspaper told of plans to eradicate the pine meter's larvae on Hökensås outside Tidaholm. An aircraft would powder 1,000 hectares of forest with the excellent Gesarol substance, the active substance of which is DDT. The local master had invited the press, and Dagens Nyheter's reporter was Gesarol: ..................................................... Probably did well for the journalist. DDT is not very dangerous as acute poison to humans. However, it is fatal for many arthropods. Mr President, I would like to Basic to today's Swedish chemicals policy is the environmental quality target Non-toxic environment. Together with the generational goal, it has been the starting point for Sweden's positions within the EU and internationally. A specific strategy and action plan to achieve the environmental quality objective Non-toxic environment and the generational target have been adopted. The aim of the strategy is to give clear priority to actions in areas where there is a great need for measures to speed up work. The Action Plan focuses on protecting human reproduction and children's health through various measures at national, EU and international level. Legislation in the field of chemicals is currently largely harmonised, which means that work within the EU is central to reducing the risks of hazardous substances. The development of the REACH chemicals legislation in the EU is therefore extremely important to influence. In principle, all chemical substances are covered by REACH. This means that chemical substances such as cleaning products and paints, as well as articles such as clothing, furniture and household appliances are covered. Therefore, the Regulation affects most companies in the EU. REACH places the burden of proof on companies. In order to comply with the requirements of the Regulation, companies must identify and manage the risks associated with the substances they manufacture or import and sell within the EU and EEA. They must demonstrate that the substance can be used safely and provide information on appropriate risk management measures to users. Sweden is one of the countries that makes the most proposals for measures for substances within REACH. Our ambition must be that we will continue this work and that the government continues to push in the EU for a higher level of ambition in the field of chemicals. Mr President, I would like to Chemicals policy is very important. Properly designed taxes and other economic tools have great potential to contribute cost-effectively to the achievement of environmental objectives, as well as to drive substitution and innovation. The January agreement states that economic instruments should be used to transform society into an environmentally friendly direction. Among other things, there should be a tax on dangerous chemicals in clothing and shoes. When deciding on the so-called chemical tax, an important starting point was that Sweden should be a role model in the world, where high environmental ambitions create innovation power, and that Sweden cannot refrain from working for better environmental and health consumption just because other countries do not have the same taxes. There is every reason to recall this ambition and the need to reduce the presence, spread and exposure of dangerous substances to humans and the environment. The chemicals tax is an effective tool to reduce the spread of hazardous chemicals in the environment. Work is also currently under way on the taxation of cadmium and pesticides. Mr President, I would like to It's almost 75 years since DN's reporter got a dose of DDT in the dinner arrowner. A lot has happened since then. But there is still much to be done. We must continue to push forward internationally by tightening up the global chemicals strategy. We must sharpen the EU's work and legislation, and we must also allow Sweden to set an example in protecting people and the environment from exposure to dangerous substances. The strategies being developed at the different levels will play a major role in the work for a non-toxic environment and hopefully be powerful instruments for reducing the environmental and health risks of chemicals.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-828	Mr President, I would like to I want to start in this chemical debate in nature. I do not think anyone has escaped the international news that is now quite well known: the number of insects has fallen dramatically around the world in recent years. Fewer insects can have major consequences for our food supply in the future. In Sweden, the increasing insect death also seems to be a fact, although we need to map this area considerably better. In the chemical debate and other political debates in the area of the Environment and Agriculture Committee, we must, I think, discuss much more how we can increase the number of insects that play such an important role in our agriculture. Sweden's agricultural landscape is beautiful, but there are shortcomings in today's agricultural landscape. One of the shortcomings is that it blooms much less than it did before. Chemical pesticides, both insecticides and herbicides, have a major impact on the potential for rich biodiversity in our agricultural landscapes. Although food supply can now be increased in the short term by means of intervention funds, we must give this issue a long-term priority and ensure a high level of food supply. Perhaps it should not be done by means of intervention funds. The sale of organic food is an important indicator of the environmental objective G ift-free environment. Organic farming needs to be stepped up in future agricultural policy. We must have a non-toxic cycle in agriculture. I would like to refer to what Mrs Burwick spoke about, Mr President. This year we should have a jubilee here in Sweden, perhaps for several reasons. One reason is that this year it is 50 years since DDT was banned in Sweden. Yet the Moderates here today propose that Sweden should stop taking the lead in banning chemicals, even though we have this experience: already 50 years ago we banned DDT. In fact, it is only this year that the last countries in the world are also doing what we are doing. Now DDT is outlawed all over the world. Nationally, we have to go ahead. Mr President, I would like to In the in-depth evaluation of the environmental objectives presented recently, there are suggestions on how we can develop work on a non-toxic environment. There are three strategic development areas that are particularly highlighted in order to achieve a non-toxic environment. It is about better knowledge and information. I would like to stress in particular that we need to have clearer information about the chemical content of different products. The second strategy is that we need to detoxify the cycles so that they are non-toxic right from the start. The use of particularly dangerous substances must then cease. The third strategy is to achieve effective legislation and environmental inspections. Oversight really needs to be strengthened. Non-toxic environment is one of the most difficult environmental quality objectives to achieve. There is a need for increased resources for more competence in the chemical field among many key actors, including municipalities and county boards. There is also great ignorance about how hazardous chemicals are used and how the population and the environment are exposed. The accumulated knowledge that exists in society is not always in the right place. In order to avoid significant future costs, it is important to work preventively to reduce the risks of hazardous chemical substances at local and regional level. We must also increase the ambition and knowledge of the responsibility of those actors who have historically spread chemicals in the environment under the Environmental Code. Here comes the question of PFAS – PFAS has polluted many of our drinking water supplies. The operators responsible for this pollution must also bear the costs so that it does not affect today's water consumers. The voluntary work to strengthen the expertise of authorities and municipalities in toxicology and risk management and to increase work on non-toxic environments in companies and organisations can be strengthened without taking the power and resources from the exercise of public authority, which must also be carried out. Environmental inspections are extremely important. A non-toxic environment contributes to better public health. I would really like to underline what many speakers have said here before me, namely that we need to have a special focus on children when we talk about chemicals. They're more vulnerable. A little body gets more. Children also have organs that develop. Chemical issues concern both the environment and health. That is precisely why we need to create a greater interest in chemicals in the general public. In an earlier debate today, I have talked about environmental crime. I would like to add to this by also talking about environmental crime in the field of chemicals. The environmental inspection report gives us a fresh picture of the state of public Sweden's ability to detect and prosecute environmental crime. The conclusion of the investigation is that the current supervisory organisation provides a good basis and should not be changed, but it nevertheless proposes a series of measures to improve the efficiency of the supervisory authority's work and state coordination. According to the investigation, there is reason to believe that environmental crime is on the increase in our country. It is noted that in comparable countries more serious environmental crimes are detected relatively than in Sweden. Responsible authorities have signalled that the current system is ineffective. For example, very few complaints from the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate go to environmental prosecutors and lead to prosecutions. In four out of five cases, the preliminary investigations are closed. Most people who get caught in the inspections of the Chemicals Inspectorate are therefore never prosecuted. The Agency has put forward proposals on how this can be made more effective. Environmental offences are detected mainly in the framework of environmental inspections. Nevertheless, I would like to stress here in Parliament that the major reductions in environmental inspections by the Moderates and Christian Democrats in the budget adopted in December also have a major impact on the possibility of detecting and prosecuting environmental crimes. The reports of environmental crime reflect the offences that are most easily detected and the crimes that are being spent on detection. The environmental inspection report notes that the registration of crime says more about environmental inspections and other control activities than about environmental crime as such. There is consensus that society as a whole misses out on the really large, rogue and criminal activities. There is also the greatest risk to both the environment and human health. The most common penalty for breach of the environmental code is a fine. Company fines account for approximately 60% of the penalties imposed. The environmental inspection investigation proposes what they call a change of sanctions in the field of chemicals legislation. This is also mentioned in the report. It is expected to lead to a much more effective system of sanctions. This means that some of the environmental crimes can be decriminalised and that the authorities can decide on penalties directly, without going through court. There may indeed be a reason for Parliament to take a broader approach and carry out a rotation of sanctions in order to increase efficiency and strengthen legitimacy in the area of environmental law. In this way, more crimes can be dealt with effectively and better. I would like to conclude by saying that this is an extremely important area. There may not be much debate here today, but what I think we should focus more on is precisely the three areas of principle identified in the assessment of environmental objectives: improving information, strengthening work on banning and phasing out the most dangerous substances and also continuing to develop work on effective legislation and improved and strengthened environmental inspections. Let it be an accident at work that last year there were proposals to reduce environmental inspections. It needs to be strengthened.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-851	Mr President, I would like to As Maria Gardfjell said, there was not much debate on this subject. But I have another question. Yesterday we debated a lot about food, and Mrs Gardfjell also raised that today. In particular, she spoke of organic farming. I will readily admit that agriculture is not my home field. But I see that if we were to switch to 100% organic farming, only half as much food could be produced on the arable land that we have today. How do the Green Party and Maria Gardfjell think that we should manage self-sufficiency? The level of self-sufficiency is currently 50%. Every other bite is imported food. We want to increase the degree of self-sufficiency, so that we can actually manage with our own food and avoid importing with all the disadvantages that it has. But if we're going to go over to 100% organic – if that's the representative's point – how are we going to manage to get all the food we need?
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-855	Mr President, I would like to It is absolutely important to discuss food issues, not least the question of the use of pesticides. Both insecticides and herbicides really affect the possibility of biodiversity and the long-term possibility of producing food. Of course, organic farming is an answer. In the food strategy, there is a 40% target for organic food. So we are not talking about 100% organic today. But I think it is important to increase the amount of organic farming and do it quickly. How can you support Sweden with food if you move to organic farming? It is not true that, in all cases, organic farming reduces production by 50% rather than conventionally. But what may not have escaped Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson – at least it hasn't escaped me – is that in Sweden a lot of agricultural land has been laid back. Sweden is growing again. We have plenty of farmland. A more extensive operation, whether it is animal husbandry or crop cultivation, is positive for the whole of Sweden to live and for us to also get good and healthy food.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-859	Mr President, I would like to In view of the previous debate, I cannot help but mention that we have yet another reason why agricultural land is growing again, namely that farmers are laying down because of predatory pressure. A farmer back home in the municipality of Årjäng told me that it takes four times as much diesel to get a kilo of organic wheat flour as it does to get a kilo of conventionally grown wheat flour. So you have to have larger surfaces and drive the tractor more times to produce the same amount of food. And now we're going to change. How are we going to get through that part of the transition and also get the food we need? I feel that I did not really get an answer to my question.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-861	Mr President, I would like to What is important when we talk about the possibility of supplying Sweden and the world with good food is that development must move forward, both in organic and in conventional agriculture. A center party farmer– I mention that it is a center party because there are different people with different opinions– have told me that in the first few years, when they turned their farm into organic operation, the tractors pulled more because they had to drive more towards the weeds. But in the coming years, when they had raised a higher soil soil level and got pressure from the weeds by mechanical means and so on, they didn't have to drive as much. It is important to look at the research summaries that exist, where ecological and conventional farming are compared, when drawing conclusions. The important thing for me is not to compare ecologically and conventionally in Sweden, but the most important thing is that we invest in Swedish agriculture, that we get more organic farming, that we know that it benefits biodiversity and that we secure the long-term opportunity for Sweden to have a fossil-free agriculture. I think we should make sure that the whole of agriculture learns from the ecological.
i-a61bce2be2f8e199-895	Sweden's ability to attract skilled labour
