i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-0	Mr President, I would like to When I joined the Swedish Parliament eight and a half years ago, I never thought that I would stand here today for the reason that threats and violence against teachers and principals have increased so much and that the development has become so serious that we from the Liberals are forced to demand a special debate to draw attention to the problem. The most common thing for most of us school politicians is that we visit students, teachers and principals to discuss grade questions, homework, sometimes the menu, lack of teachers or teachers' salaries – perhaps the more positive and simpler questions. Now we see in the Swedish Work Environment Authority's reports that there has been almost a doubling of the number of cases of threats and violence against teachers. We want this debate to draw attention to the problem and increase teachers' powers.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-4	Mr President, I would like to When things get messed up in class, we don't have time to learn as much as we want. So said Allan and his friends in the student council in Wasa School in Södertälje when I visited it a few weeks ago. A focus on learning outcomes in school, a focus on students learning a lot, a focus on equivalence, that everyone should have the same chance and that it should not matter where you come from, and a focus on security and study will be at the heart of government policy in the coming years in the school area. For me as Minister of Education, safety and study in all classrooms is a priority. The government began its term of office by producing a curriculum writing prepared by the School Commission. Curriculum writing states that students should show each other and teachers respect and consideration and contribute to a positive working environment and a positive study environment. We have long had health and safety regulations in school, both for teachers and for students, but it is clear that we need to do more to ensure the safety and understanding of students and teachers. As a signal language, the writing of the curriculum is important. If we say the following sentences enough times, they will eventually become reality: It is the teachers who decide in the classroom. Students have rights, but students also have obligations. The behaviours that are not accepted in the rest of society should not be accepted in school either. But language must also be materialized. That is a good thing, and we need to simplify disciplinary measures, such as suspension and relocation, for the principals. We will also consider the work environment of the principals. In fact, any non-disciplined action against a student who exposes others to violence risks reducing the importance of having been subjected to violence. Any non-disciplined action in the event of violence is to mislead about what it means to be part of a society. Any non-report of violence to the principal or the Swedish Work Environment Agency is to normalize the violence. It is to betray everyone involved, not only teachers and principals, but also students. We must also talk about the basic conditions for creating a school where violence and threats do not occur. The basic conditions are about a student's health that is proactive and long-term participants in the business. It is about giving teachers time to focus on the knowledge assignment, to plan and carry out the teaching, which is nevertheless the core task of the teacher's tasks. It is about ensuring that the teacher density is high enough to be able to meet students with needs for support as well as students with difficult challenges. Remember that when teachers and school pupil health are not enough for all pupils, it is of course likely to affect those students who have a particularly high need for support. And most importantly: Knowledge in school means that we all, from politicians to parents, have a responsibility to make sure that the school is actually about knowledge and that we all participate in and are involved in students' learning. In school, knowledge should be the focus, not customer thinking. The customer thinking that spreads in the Swedish school risks going out over the knowledge assignment and the teachers' work environment. Raising is one thing for the parents. Teachers should not have to train students, but they should not be afraid to take the necessary measures, as the situation requires and which are within the legal framework to strengthen students' right to knowledge and education.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-14	Mr President, the Minister for Education and others. A student kicks and beats a teacher. When other staff intervenes, the student grabs the hair so that it loosens. A pregnant educator stops a fight between two students, hitting and pushing her in the stomach. Afterwards, she gets ache, and later she is found to have a miscarriage. A reporter describes how a student strangles a younger student and tells him that this has happened several times. Mr President, I would like to I could stand here for hours and read reports that have come in only in the last year about threats and violence at school. Last year there were 870 notifications, and then we know that there is a dark number. It's a doubling against just five years ago. None of us would accept having it like this in our workplace. We can also look at the study that the Crime Prevention Council has done among students. It shows that 51 percent of all ninth - grade students report that over the past 12 months they have been robbed, beaten, threatened, robbed or subjected to sex crimes, most of which occurred in school – 51 percent! I say it again, Mr President: none of us would accept this in our workplace. Then the minister in interviews and at different speaking times says that the school is heading in the right direction. With 17 000 nines going out without a full grade and 33 000 high school students who did not graduate last June, no one can say that the development is moving in the right direction. Where are all the sharp proposals to change laws and regulations and give teachers and school principals the authority they need? Where are the sharp proposals to improve teacher training so that conflict management and methodology are included that prepare you for what is happening? Where is the reinforcement of the headmaster's training and of principals, who are the most important people in the school? Where are the sharp proposals for developing and improving pupil health so that we have a better situation? Mr President, I would like to I conclude my speech by saying that none of us would accept having it like this. We can't say that the school is going in the right direction, can we?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-23	Mr President, I would like to I say as I said in Wednesday's debate: a basic prerequisite for learning is that it is order and order in the classrooms and at school and that the school is seen as any place of work. Not anywhere else in society would we accept the working environment that we now see in several schools around the country. Reports of increasing violence in schools are alarming. According to Swedish Television, 3 000 reports of threats and violence in schools have been made since 2014. On 224 occasions in the last five years, threats have also included knives or weapon-like objects. Just here in Stockholm, threats to teachers and students have more than doubled in seven years. But threats and violence can also take other forms than physical ones. Teachers have to endure spittoons and gender words. The latter applies not least to female teachers. Mass immigration policy has also had no positive impact on school order. But the situation is worse than that. When teachers reprimand students, drive them out of classrooms, or intervene in threatening situations, we read in the media how they are reported and, in some cases, even liable for damages. When principals shut down students, they're run over by school managers. It is a completely wrong system. The decisions of teachers and principals must be valid at all costs. It's like we're living in Absurdistan. The lack of authority, discipline and respect is total in Swedish school. The tolerance threshold for what teachers and principals can do to put schools in order must be radically lowered. The law of the street should not apply in school. This is nothing new. We have been able to read about it for years, and in this House we have had countless debates on this subject. But now we have really reached the end of the road. It is time for the government to decide whether it wants to continue speaking or whether it wants to act. We have been hearing the government talk for a long time about national security plans and one document after another. There is nothing wrong with that, but it is completely inadequate if more concrete measures are not taken. Anyone who does not hesitate to kick teachers, spit them in the face or threaten with a knife will hardly change his behaviour because we express fine words in national action plans. But when it comes to concrete proposals, such as order reviews, which we had up in Parliament this week, the whole left side says blankly no. Then you are not ready to take sharp action. We Swedish democrats want results. Far too long the problem has been mentioned, but few solutions have been presented. We believe that it is time to act and it is very forceful. I look forward to hearing a full battery of measures from the government to put an end to this gloomy era in Swedish school history, and I expect to hear them here today.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-34	Mr President, I would like to It is good that Parliament today is given the opportunity to debate this important issue, although I wish we would not need it. In order for students to succeed in school, a secure study environment and skilled and committed teachers are needed. We all know the need to get more people to want to become teachers in order to meet the challenges the school is facing. The status of the profession needs to be increased, but it is also necessary for teachers to feel safe and have a good working environment at their workplace. A poor working environment for teachers is not only a bad working environment for them, but also for all the hundreds of thousands of students who attend Swedish school. This goes hand in hand. Of course, all forms of violations, threats and violence against teachers are totally unacceptable. Teachers must be able to feel safe in the Swedish school and should not have to endure any form of abuse or violence from either students or parents. Because of the current working environment, lessons are cancelled, and teachers leave the profession. Between 2012 and 2016, the number of reports of physical violence against teachers to the Swedish Work Environment Authority almost doubled. According to the National Association of Teachers' Work Environment Survey, almost every fifth teacher goes to work with a feeling of discomfort in the face of the risk of being exposed to threats, violence and other harassment. At the same time, half of the teachers say that school violence is increasing. This development is totally unacceptable and must be reversed. The January agreement includes the development of a national plan for security and study. More teachers' assistants will be employed and students who have exposed others to threats or violence will be more easily switched off or relocated. Several of these issues are important for the Center Party, and that is a good step along the way. However, additional measures will need to be taken to ensure that all teachers feel safe in the Swedish school and be able to focus on teaching and to give students the knowledge that they will get in the Swedish school. Mr President, I would like to There is more to be said about the importance of reporting crimes, the responsibility of the principals and how the School Inspectorate should act, but I will come back to that in my next speech. Every day thousands of teachers do a fantastic job, and in many places the working environment is good. But where it does not work, efforts must be clear and provide tools to teachers, school principals and principals so that they can give our children and young people a good education. Let us focus on giving them the right conditions so that development can be reversed.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-42	Mr President, I would like to The idea of the universal, cohesive school was part of the struggle for democracy. Out of this connection was born the realization of knowledge and education as a civic right, common to all and realized in a school for all. The major reform of the educational system, which began in the 50's, increased the general level of knowledge and a view on learning as a dynamic and workable process guided by pedagogical science and the development of school practice. A systematic interaction between school and parents was developed. The school's learning process would equalise socio-economicly based knowledge differences. It would also be a forum for training in a democratic spirit. At the same time, the view of school has changed in our society. There has been a commodity fissure of education where the choice of school takes place in a market. These developments have been eagerly cheered on by liberals and those on the right. What is the situation today? Many teachers experience a stressful situation at school. According to the authorities that among others the Swedish Radio programme The Ministry of Education has spoken to, more and more people are experiencing an increasingly stressed situation and working environment. When the Swedish Work Environment Authority reviewed schools between 2013 and 2016, it was noted that nine out of ten schools had shortcomings in the working environment. Today we are here to talk about threats and violence at school and what we want to do to tackle the problem. Let me first say that we should not paint a picture of any party in this House being in favour of there being violence and threats in the Swedish school. Sometimes it sounds like that in an increasingly polarised debate. How we are going to deal with the problems is also linked to seeing the root causes of the problem. When threats and violence occur in the Swedish school, whether it is against teachers or against pupils, action should of course be taken through strong leadership by principals and through our legislation being followed by the judicial system. But the root causes of the problem will not be addressed as long as we do not have a better working environment for school staff, as long as we do not have smaller groups in school and as long as we do not have a pupil health that is there enough for our students. So let's talk about the root causes. These come from an increasingly segregated school because of the system that has been built up in recent decades, where students are seen as customers and not as students who have a right to knowledge.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-50	Mr President, I would like to One of the most important tasks of society is to contribute to the positive growth and development of children and young people. One important tool for this development is school. The school should convey knowledge and stimulate students' development but also prepare young people for adult life. But today's school has problems handling this data due to an increased trend of violence and threats. Unfortunately, this is not a new trend. For several years, various reports have shown an increased incidence of threats and violence against teachers and school leaders. It's time to break the trend now. Teachers and students have the right to a calm and safe working environment. I note that Minister Ekström communicated during March that the threats to teachers are now over. This was done in debate articles and interviews. The proposal to which reference is made is new writings in the curriculum in the autumn where the duty of students to show respect for their teachers and classmates is emphasised, which in my view is a human self-evident fact already today. In addition, a national plan is mentioned, based on the 73-point programme, and studies to be achieved through the introduction of a mobile ban. Will the problems really be resolved within a reasonable time? The lack of concrete proposals during the last parliamentary term still shines with its example. Mr President, I would like to The school is of great importance when it comes to conveying values and building a foundation of values. For this reason, the Christian Democrats have repeatedly stressed the importance of school not being value neutral. The school has a responsibility to conduct ethical discussions and to mark the limits of what is allowed and what is right and what is wrong at an early stage. The problems, as I see it, are due to the fact that the basis for assessing how to behave against each other is missing. No teacher, principal or student shall have to be subjected to physical or psychological violence or to complaints and violations. Mr President, I would like to We need to create greater respect for teachers, and teachers must be able to act without being reported for violation. The school has a responsibility to provide the necessary conditions and support for all students' knowledge learning, but it must also be made clear which rules apply and what the consequences are if you do not follow them. How we behave against each other is because we give our children good values, and in my view the family has a responsibility and should be made more involved in the work. The Christian Democrats' proposal for a contract of responsibility is a way of clarifying both what the school's responsibility is and how the family should be more involved. The good examples of clear leadership on the part of school management, with clear rules of procedure and follow-up of the rules, should become a template for all schools. I will return in my next speech to what we want to do further.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-56	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that we disagree on this issue. First of all, the problem must be recognised, although this is not enough, because we do not agree at all, nor do we agree on the measures. As early as a year ago, we in the Committee on Education called for the government to come back with a proposal for a reinforced school law in terms of study and peace of mind. What's happened in the last year? Not much, Minister. Some people think we're exaggerating. When we stand here and say that we are exaggerating on this issue, we do not really want to raise it, do we, the Left Party? But these are the facts, Mr President. The Swedish Work Environment Authority notes that threats and violence against teachers have almost doubled in five years. Not a day goes by without hearing from the National Association of Teachers, the Association of Teachers or local media news about students who expose each other to threats or about what we are discussing today, that teachers and principals are exposed to threats when they decide on leave routines, when they decide to intervene against the mess in the classroom and when they decide on grading. This is for real. If we do not recognise it, we will have this kind of debate every year without solving the problem. School law needs to be changed. It's a demand from the Liberals. When I had an interpellation debate on 15 February here in this House, the Minister of Education announced that she was not prepared to change the law. But the chapter on teachers' powers needs to be changed. The chapter on insulting treatment must be changed. The child and pupil representative in its current form must be dismantled. We have school authorities who intervene and fail the teachers' decisions when they want to intervene against the mess. The most sad and regrettable thing about this development of society is that teachers are afraid to intervene. Rectors say in their replies to the National Agency for Education that they do not use several of the tools, the so-called disciplinary measures. Then we need to find out why they're not being used. I suspect, Mr President, that it is because we have a culture of violation, a political culture, a practice and a vision that teachers can be questioned, teachers can be challenged, teachers can be threatened and teachers can do a little anything with – throw coffee in the face, push, push and threaten. This is totally unacceptable, and that is why we are having this debate today. And that is why we will demand that the government take action, because this has not happened.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-62	Mr President, I would like to The school is the place where sustainable society starts in many ways. Sustainable society requires sustainable individuals, and the school should be this place. It should be a place for learning, and security and study are central prerequisites for that. We have recently seen a debate about the fact that this reality does not exist everywhere in all schools, and this is alarming and serious. It is obvious that teachers should not be allowed to behave in any way against students, but it is also obvious that students should not be allowed to behave against their teachers anyway. There should be good order in the classroom and in school. The responsibility rests heavily on many. Of course, it rests on students and teachers but also on principals, school leaders and other adults in school and on parents. Politics also has a great responsibility. However, there are no more disciplinary measures being requested by the teachers. This was very clear in the survey that the Swedish National Agency for Education presented last autumn. Instead, there are clear rules on what applies in every classroom that is requested. The teachers and principals also want to see dialogue, discussions, support and other preventive work. The status of teachers in society as a whole, but above all in the classroom, must be strengthened, and here the Teacher Salary Lift has contributed and will contribute. Developed teacher training is another step that we will take. But there must be a series of measures, both from the political level and from schools: time with students, improved pupil health and contact with parents. The MP-S government has taken action. During the last term of office, we added resources to 28 000 more adults in school, and we are already continuing in our amending budget with SEK 475 million to more teachers' assistants to relieve teachers. We have strengthened leadership in the classroom, but we can and should do more. We will develop a national plan for security and study, for that is something that should prevail at every school and in every classroom.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-67	Mr President, I would like to I went home today after a week full of jumps and I don't know if I ever want to come back to my job. This is how Catrin Johansson, who is a teacher, wrote in the Teacher's newspaper last month. To Catrin, all her colleagues and all the principals, I would like to say: You have the right to a workplace free from threats and violence. Threats and violence are unacceptable in all workplaces. This also applies, and perhaps especially, to school. There shall be zero tolerance. Whoever does his job according to the law should have the full support of society. The headmasters must have the teachers' back when the teachers make decisions according to the law. School chiefs and principals must have the headmasters' backs. And I'll hold all the principals' back if the principals do their job. The support of society is needed. We parents must also ensure that we support the teachers and principals who maintain security and study in our children's schools. I want to say to all students, you have the right to a safe school. You have the right to learn much in a safe study environment. But you should also contribute to the safe environment. You are important employees in the school's important learning assignments. Knowledge is not free. Knowledge is something one acquires with hard work and with the support of an experienced and skilled teacher. And the student who tries hard and does his best in school should have such good support so that you can achieve the goals that you want to achieve with your school. Anyone who has listened to this debate has heard many words. Unfortunately, however, one thing has shone with its absence in several of the speeches. We easily get caught up in imaginary conflict lines. The teachers I meet say don't do this. Instead, solve the problems. While the rhetorical debate is going on here in Parliament, everyday life is going on in our schools. There, teachers want the support of society and concrete measures. During my time as Minister of Education, I will focus on safety and education at school. We will work hard on the national plan. We will introduce a mobile ban, which will make life easier and reduce the level of conflict in many classrooms in Sweden. We will ensure that there are good rules for principals to deal with when it comes to the suspension and relocation of students. And we will ensure that there is time and resources to prepare and implement the teaching, support for pupil health and more for those who need the most. The teachers who are struggling with the world's most important profession deserve the support of society, and they also deserve a political debate in which fiction is not presented, where you do not exaggerate the contradictions and where you actually take your responsibility as a rich politician and keep teachers' backs when they do their job.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-78	Mr President, I would like to Anna Ekström says that she should concentrate on studying during this time. But where are all the concrete proposals? The only concrete proposal that has come and which we have been able to read about in the 73-point programme is the proposal for a mobile ban. Surely it cannot be the intention for Parliament to ridicule the teaching staff and school management to the extent that they should not be able to decide for themselves on mobile phones or not in school or in the classroom? But where are all the other suggestions for teacher training? Where are the proposals to change school order, laws and regulations or to introduce another new crime involving crimes against school staff, principal or school leader? Where are the proposals to improve pupil health? Nothing concrete is happening that indicates that this government will take any action. It is nevertheless the Social Democrats who have been in charge for over four years and are responsible for the school.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-80	Mr President, I would like to Kristina Axén Olin starts by asking about the mobile ban, and I will be happy to tell you what the mobile ban will be about. Today, teachers who think that mobile phones interfere with teaching – in fact, as many as two thirds of all teachers say that at least once a day they are disturbed in the teaching of chatting, texting and gambling – should either rely on a local set of rules or assess that mobile phones interfere with the emergency situation. Guess it'll take time! Guess if it takes time to argue and argue with students and argue for the mobile phone to be removed! Imagine how much easier it would be for the country's teachers if the starting point is that the phones should not be included but that the teachers have the full power to let the students use them. That's what I call trusting the teachers.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-82	Mr President, I would like to But please Anna Ekström, it's not about whether I'm against using mobile phones and watching comics during class time or not. Of course, mobile phones should not be used for private use during class time. The problem is that you ridicule the teaching staff if you think that we should have to make a decision in the Riksdag whether or not to use mobile phones for private use during class time. If we are going to make that kind of decision here in Parliament, what are we going to decide next time? Should we decide on school food and whether to have meat-free Monday or not? What else are we going to decide on? But all the other proposals are completely absent.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-84	Mr President, I would like to I can inform Kristina Axén Olin that the previous alliance government actually decided that students can bring mobile phones to class. It is with the support of the school law that students today have a complete opportunity to bring their mobiles with them whenever they want. We want to strengthen the opportunities for teachers to carry out teaching and lessons without having to take a lot of conflicts and fuss about mobile phones. This is a change that I have received a lot of thanks for from teachers. The teachers don't want to argue in class.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-87	Mr President, I would like to I have listened to and read interviews with the Minister for Education on several occasions, and I still think that there is some insight on this issue that was missing from the former Minister for Education. Actually, I'd like to say that. However, the fact that we have a political discussion and that there can sometimes be dividing lines in the debate is precisely that we are calling for concrete action. It's taken too long. The government in office has now been in power for five years, and there are still no concrete proposals that teachers are calling for. The Minister of Education said herself that she felt that non-disciplined measures were a way of normalizing violence. That's absolutely right. But how, for example, does the Minister of Education view the signals that we are receiving, where there is a practice that is developing a lot because of the Children's and Student's Representative and where the teachers ultimately do not dare to intervene because they are afraid that there will be consequences in terms of liability for damages or that they will not be backed up by the principals?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-90	Mr President, I would like to Teachers should not be afraid to act when the situation requires it. As long as the teachers remain within the boundaries of the law, they should feel the support of society. I would like to advise Patrick Reslow and others in this House to be a little careful in referring to individual cases. As a minister, I am prevented from entering into and discussing individual cases. But even if I wasn't, I'd be a little careful. In fact, taking individual cases as a starting point for their policy proposals risks not relying on the many evaluations and the rich statistics available in this area. It's clear enough anyway. We know that the Swedish school is, to a far too great extent, insecure and inadequately studied, and we must remedy this.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-94	Mr President, I would like to I am very disappointed with this speech by the Minister for Education. It is strange that the Minister for Education says that we cannot talk about a practice that is evolving. I haven't talked about an individual case. I am talking about the practice that has been developed with the help of the Children's and Student's Representative. A practice that has developed is not an individual case. A Minister for Education must also be able to comment on this. She must be able to say that a practice and development in this area is wrong. I maintain the question I have asked: how does the Minister of Education view the problem of the practice that has developed?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-96	Mr President, I would like to In some of the contributions to the debate, it has been said that I would have categorically rejected any proposal to amend the Education Act. I would like to stress that I have no problem at all with changing the Alliance Government's and Jan Björklund's school team. Nor do I have a problem with amending Nyamko Sabunis's anti-discrimination legislation, should it be necessary. My intention is for the school law to support the teachers who act according to the regulations, and that is the intention I will work on.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-97	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by highlighting what Anna Ekström said in her speech that it is important to reflect on the tone of this debate and when we discuss issues of security and study for both students and teachers. It is therefore with surprise that in today's debate as well as in Sweden's Television a few days ago, the Council of State links the issue of safety and study to the issue of freedom of choice in schools, that is, the possibility for pupils and teachers to change schools and employers. I would like to hear how, according to the Minister, these issues have any connection whatsoever. My second question is: there are a number of things that will be implemented, but in what areas does Anna Ekström see the need for further reforms to strengthen the security of teachers? I do not think that was very clear in the speech.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-100	Mr President, I would like to Let me state that I think it is good and important that we have freedom of choice in the Swedish school system. It is good that parents and students can make a choice and specify any school the student wants to attend. I also think it is excellent that there are free schools in the Swedish school system. However, we have a problem, and that is that we have got market control of the school where schools compete for students. The risk is then obvious that students and parents see school as a place where knowledge is delivered. This is something that I have talked to many principals and many teachers about, and I have heard many testimonies that are just that teachers are met by students who simply demand to have their right provided but do not feel that the school is also a workplace. The famous educator John Hattie once said: Teaching is hard, learning is harder. If the school is to work, students must also contribute to school work and not see themselves as customers.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-102	Mr President, I would like to I want to stress that the school should of course be able to make demands on students and their parents. That is a given condition. Ratings, for example, are not an order item. Thanks to freedom of choice, we also enable every fifth teacher, who today feels insecure when he or she goes to his or her place of work, to actually continue his or her career in the school system but in another workplace – a school or principal who is able to carry out the mission we are discussing today, namely to maintain the study and safety of teachers and their working environment.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-104	Mr President, I would like to I have to thank Fredrik Christensson for his strong support for teachers to be seen as intermediaries of knowledge and as those who will ensure that with leadership in the classroom, students learn a lot. I also thank you for the support that students and parents should not act in such a way against teachers that they behave like customers in a market. Thank you, Fredrik Christensson!
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-105	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your intervention, Minister Ekström! We do not always agree on things, and we shall well keep the debate at a certain level and see what solutions there are to the problems. It is important to see that the problems exist, and in the light of that, I wonder a little what is the timetable of the Government for the national plan that is being drawn up and which is the result of the agreement that has been reached with C and L. What is the timetable for knowing and getting to grips with it? I also wonder what is going on in terms of creating greater protection for teachers and school staff. We have a blue light: we have seen how social functions are affected, and we want to highlight the degree of seriousness of those attacks. How does the Government view this question?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-108	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by apologising to Fredrik Christensson – I did not actually answer the question that has now been repeated. With regard to future work on security and study and the national plan, this is an issue on which we in the government intend to cooperate with the Centre Party and the Liberals. It is clearly written down, along with several of these points, in our January agreement. I would like to come back to the timetable and content when we have worked on this issue together. Just as the students should respect their teachers and peers, I have great respect for the Center and Liberals when it comes to working with them on some really good proposals on this issue.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-110	Mr President, I would like to I didn't quite get the answer to my second question, the one about blue light thinking for teachers. It can be taken in the next line by the Government. I'm hanging on to one more question. What is the Minister's view of what I started from in my speech – to strengthen cooperation with the family, but perhaps also the demands, in the form of a liability contract or something like that? We know that it exists in some schools and that it works. Does the Minister think that it could be part of a mission to create a more national view of this?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-112	Mr President, I would like to On the last question, I can answer an implicit yes. I see that the role of the parents is absolutely crucial. Of course, a child – a student – who hears from his parents that you do not have to listen to the teacher does not. I think that parents have a given role in the great work that needs to be done locally at each school in order to strengthen security and education, so I wholeheartedly support that proposal. I would like to come back to the issue of blue-light thinking, because my speaking time is up.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-114	Mr President, I would like to More students feel that there is no security and study in the classroom and in school. It has increased over the past five years, that is, during the time when Anna Ekström's party has had the government power. We also see that more teachers – I maintain this – are afraid to intervene because they risk being registered with the School Inspectorate and the school authorities. For example, when it comes to different approaches to these issues, we have proposed that the Children's and Student's Representative should be phased out. On the basis of our debate on 15 February, I have interpreted the government's response as not being prepared to do so. We have also recently proposed the introduction of a school certificate, and the Minister has also said no to that. When in February I demanded that the school law be amended, the government replied that the assessment is that it is not necessary. So we think differently on these issues, the Government, and we must be able to say that. Does the Government maintain its answers of 15 February?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-117	Mr President, I would like to I say yes to safety and study. I say yes to the fact that teachers should have strong support when they intervene in accordance with the law, but I say no to the administrative round that the certificate would mean – and which is not wanted by the teachers themselves. Today, teachers have every opportunity to communicate with their parents in writing and to tell them clearly how they behave at school, but they do not actually need to sit and write long grades of order for all the students who are doing well. In fact, most students do. I say 'no' to unnecessary administration, and I say 'yes' to security and study. With regard to Roger Haddad's second question, the answers I gave in an interpellation debate dealt with a very specific question, namely whether the government was preparing amendments to certain parts of the school law. Of course I'm prepared to change the school law if necessary. The whole of our January agreement is that we should make changes that require changes to the school law; Roger Haddad must be aware of that.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-119	Mr President, I would like to It is better that the government admits that it has changed its mind in the space of just over a month. A month ago, they did not want to change the school law. On the Liberal side, however, we demand that the chapter on insulting treatment and the chapter on teachers' powers be amended. Even the School Inspectorate has stated that a review and change would be good. There are 16 lawyers at the Swedish School Inspectorate who in a letter have criticised the assessments of the Children's and Student Ombudsman. That in itself should make the Government act.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-121	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad devotes his line to discussing the opinions of the School Inspectorate's lawyers. Thank you for that information. I can assure Roger Haddad that I will do everything in my power to ensure security and study. If the school law needs to be changed, I'll do it. This is in no way contrary to what I said in the interpellation debate we had in February. I look forward to a good cooperation on these issues, Roger Haddad– it is necessary if we are to ensure the security and study of the students. We need to focus on changes that need to be made at national level.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-124	Mr President, I would like to Reviews in order and conduct are obviously not a universal solution to the problems in school, but it is a small signal that we think it is important to have order and peace in school. Now a majority in the Riksdag has supported the introduction of judgments in order and conduct, but it may be with what with another decision taken by the Riksdag regarding the school: A majority in the Riksdag has decided on an extra SEK 26 million for a salary investment at the first teacher in the extreme, but that decision, Mr President, does not enforce the Government. The money, the 26 million that Parliament has decided on, is paid to the Swedish National Agency for Education, but the Swedish National Agency for Education cannot implement that decision because it waits for the government's decision. So let's see what happens with the judgments in order and conduct. A few weeks ago, the Bri report, a solid and sad reading of 77,500 children's contacts with Bris recently came. The report makes it very clear that recent school talks have increased by 25 percent. Bris has had 14 000 contacts with children and young people who were just dealing with school concerns. No other activity in Sweden has as long lasting contact with children as the school. So school is incredibly important. Yet children talk about concentration difficulties due to high noise levels in the classrooms and about teachers who fail to create a calm working environment, which leads to conflicts between students flare up. Mr President, I would like to I have still not heard anything concrete here about teacher training, about the headmaster's initiative, about pupil health or about amending laws and regulations to create peace and quiet. The only concrete thing that has come up in the discussion is a mobile ban.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-129	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is already having difficulty recruiting teachers. With the current situation, it is no wonder that many ask themselves the question: Why should I become a teacher? Why should I, as a teacher, endure all these threats and all these situations in my work? Testimonies from media teachers also talk about this. Experienced teachers quit. Newly graduated teachers are looking for other labour markets. Fear of error often discourages many teachers from intervening in threatening situations. This is not a good development. It is important that teachers now feel that they have the support of society in their backs as they discipline students and try to keep order. If the teachers can't act, what should be the role models for the students? Who will then take care of the development of knowledge? Look at Finland! It is a good example of how society as a whole has come to order in school. The Swedish Democrats are now calling for sharp proposals to address the problems. I have still not heard any fresh, sharp proposals in this debate. We want students who bully, carry a knife and practice threats or violence to be removed from schools. We want to make it considerably easier to turn off students and also turn them off for longer. We want to demand a strong parental responsibility. We want to give teachers all kinds of tools that are needed to keep order. Is there any doubt in the school law – make sure to quickly correct these and write new rules if necessary! Lower the tolerance thresholds for what teachers can do to keep order in the classrooms! For the order reviews that the Riksdag has already decided! And above all: Abolish the Children's and Student's representative, whose practice has led to difficulties for teachers to keep track of school!
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-136	Mr President, I would like to The school must take greater responsibility for the working environment of teachers, pupils and school leaders. When teachers are exposed to threats and violence, this must be reported to the employer and the Swedish Work Environment Authority via the safety representatives. The school shouldn't be a crime-free zone. In many parts of the country, the crimes – quite serious in several cases – that occur in the school premises or in its surroundings are not reported. For the Center Party, it is important to make it a matter of course that crimes committed in the vicinity of the school are also reported – both in order to produce statistics and in order to be able to make efforts. Any crime that occurs without it being reported is a normalisation of violence, and that is not acceptable. There is also a need for more adults in school. We need to strengthen both the school leaders and the teachers in their leadership. The School Inspectorate needs to better follow up those schools where there is no success in maintaining order and a good working environment for teachers, pupils and school leaders. Strengthening the law in order to be able to move students who seriously interfere with their studies and the security of other students and teachers is an important part. The tightening up of the curriculum to clarify students' duty and respect for staff and others is good. But let us be honest: it is difficult, perhaps not even possible, to legislate on this. Basically, this is a problem of respect for the school as an institution and for teachers as leaders. In the great societal challenge we face, parents and the rest of society need to take greater responsibility. We all bear a great responsibility in this development of society. Let us therefore provide the best conditions for teachers to carry out their work and strengthen their safety and working environment.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-141	Mr President, I would like to School is the most important institution and place in society. It is an important place when it comes to fulfilling our mission of everyone's right to knowledge, but it is also the society's most important democracy forum. When we discuss this issue, I have to say that I am being quite provoked. What really belongs to the area of the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs is frequently raised in the debate in order to paint a picture of the fact that we, from the red-green side of the Education Committee, do not take the issue of threats and violence at school very seriously. Not a single proposal has come from the representatives of the Alliance and the right when it comes to solving the root causes of the problem, which is why we have the situation. In addition, I am very provoked by the fact that the Swedish school is in total chaos. That is not true, and it is not a picture that teachers want us to give society in general. School is partly a reflection of society. Sweden was once one of the world's most equal countries. Today it doesn't look like that. Today we are seeing increasing mental illness. We see how the ideals of beauty affect young girls' mental health. We see how segregation spreads due to the increasing divides. We see growing racism, sexism and patriarchal structures. For this, it is not populist proposals such as school grades that will be the solution. To solve this, one must ensure that the principals can be the educational leaders they have trained to be. There must be clear rules of conduct when it comes to racism, patriarchal structures, sexism and homophobia. You have to make sure to build an equal school for all, not just for a few. And that requires a policy that does not reduce taxes at the expense of resources to school.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-146	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party doesn't think we should describe the school as chaos. If there have been 870 complaints, a doubling, to the Swedish Work Environment Agency, if one in four teachers are worried that they have been threatened with the notification of students and parents for taking measures and if 51 percent of our students in the ninth grade have been subjected to crime during the school day, then it is surely almost chaos we have to name it as.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-147	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I must point out that I do not agree at all with the picture painted by the fact that the school is in total chaos. Are there problems with threats and violence in the Swedish school? Yes, there is. What do you need to do to deal with it? Well, you go to the root causes instead of putting a Band-Aid on the wound. There has not been a single proposal from Kristina Axén Olin's party on how to solve these problems fundamentally. Instead, you come up with populist proposals that should look good on TV and articles.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-149	Mr President, I would like to It is not true that we have not made any concrete proposals. We have made hundreds of proposals. Among other things, a number of our motions where we have just had proposals have been voted down this week. The problem is that the Moderates do not rule in this country but that it is in fact the Social Democrats with the agreement of the Left Party, the Green Party and now the Center Party and Liberals who govern and are responsible for school politics. That is where you should wonder why there are no concrete proposals. We have put forward proposals for everything from student health and teacher education to order ratings and higher pay in extremities and all sorts of other things.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-150	Mr President, I would like to However much I can criticise the Social Democrats for some of their policies, I would nevertheless like to say that the Moderates have to admit that it was you who were involved in drafting the school law that prevails today. When it comes to this issue, I believe that equal societies and equal school systems are the best systems even when it comes to the issue of students' treatment of each other and of teachers in the Swedish school. If we get to an equal school that is for all of us, these problems will also be reduced. In the meantime, the judiciary will also of course do what it has to do according to the law.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-152	Mr President, I would like to It sounds exactly the same as always when Daniel Riazat is in the speaker's seat. It is class gaps, market adjustment and the like that that are the problem. But Daniel Riazat can't see what's going on. Teachers stop, you don't want to work as teachers, reports increase and violence and knives are in schools. Does Daniel Riazat and the Left Party really not see the problems with this? I do not hear a single concrete proposal from the Left Party more than to correct this market adjustment in the field of school as it is called in class struggle rhetoric. What else concretely does the Left Party want to implement?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-153	Mr President, I would like to It's pretty ludicrous when a representative of SD talks about order and order. When it comes to why teachers stop, it is mainly about the working environment. It is a matter of feeling that you do not have enough resources and that you do not have enough power to deploy the necessary support measures. When it comes to weapons and violence in school, it can't be up to me as a school politician to talk about changing arms laws. This is something for which the whole Parliament is responsible and for which we have also taken the initiative.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-155	Mr President, I would like to What Daniel Riazat has a duty to do as a school politician is to ensure that there are rules that remove from schools those students who carry knives and weapons, stay far away from school, do not disturb other students and do not expose teachers and others to violence. Is there anything we can say, Mr President, it is that Daniel Riazat and his left-wing party have been making a strong contribution for a long time to the dismantling of authority in this society. It has penetrated even into school.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-157	Mr President, I would like to I think many people understand what kind of rhetoric I would call that. When it comes to the issue of violence and threats at school, there is already legislation about no human being in our society being allowed to expose another person to violence and threats. If that legislation is not complied with, it is not only regulatory changes that will lead to resolving it, but we must ensure that the legislation is complied with as a parliament, Sweden's legislative body. I alone cannot be responsible for that, as was claimed here before.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-159	Mr President, I would like to Mr Riazat states that we do not have an increasing problem. It is a little strange that the newspapers then read that reports of threats and violence against teachers are increasing. Does the honourable Member Riazat mean that it is a false image given by, among other things, the Swedish Work Environment Authority? And is the trend that we have since 2012 regarding increased notifications fictitious?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-160	Mr President, I would like to I have not said at any time in my speeches that this problem does not exist or that it has not increased. What I've said is that I think it's wrong to paint a picture of the whole school being in total chaos, because nobody benefits from it – neither our society as such nor the school and the school system. I believe that this is a major problem, but also that we have to go back to the basic problem and solve it. It is about segregation, increasing divisions, sexism, racism and a number of other problems that we need to overcome.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-162	Mr President, I would like to Mr Riazat says that we should stick to the subject, but we put ourselves on the lookout of society as a whole. It would be interesting to hear in the last speech what Mr Riazat wants to do in school. Does the honourable Member want stricter rules, a greater contact with the parents and a fundamental discussion of values where we define responsibility for both the school and the family?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-163	Mr President, I would like to Ingemar Kihlström asked me what measures I want to see in school. I have already said that, for example, when it comes to principals being given the chance and time to be the educational leaders they are trained to be. I would like to see clearer rules of conduct on the issue of threats, violence, racism, sexism and homophobia. I would also like to ensure that laws are passed that scrap the present segregation of school elections and give teachers more power and resources to realize what they are there to do, namely to give all students the knowledge to which they are entitled.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-164	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party continues with such de facto interventions. It is not the Liberals who have found that violence and threats to teachers have increased or doubled. It is not the Liberals who have stated in the Swedish National Agency for Education's survey to students that there is more disorder, that there are serious problems with order and that they want clearer routines and teachers who directly tell when they do something wrong. What conclusions does Daniel Riazat draw from the need for clearer guidelines?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-166	Mr President, I would like to I conclude that we need clearer guidelines, but I also conclude that the Liberals are making populist proposals because they are doing rather poorly in public opinion at the moment. We are here to take responsibility for our entire society. We are here to make laws and do so with the greatest responsibility. It is not responsible to come up with proposals that do not lead to any improvements at all in the Swedish school and to paint the picture that the entire Swedish school is in total chaos.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-168	Mr President, I would like to I have not used the word chaos in my speeches, but it is the Left Party that likes such ideological slogans. We are paying attention to the specific problems. There is no respect for Sweden's teachers anymore. There's no respect from the parents anymore towards the school staff. That is why we have ended up in this situation, and that is why the pendulum has fallen over and teachers are afraid to intervene. Why doesn't the Left Party want to admit this problem?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-169	Mr President, I would like to Obviously, there is no respect in this House either when it comes to listening to their opponents when they speak. In this case, I have to say that I am on the teachers' side, and I am on the students' side. I also think that things need to change in the Swedish school. I think, for example, that teachers need to be increased, and I think that they need more powers and resources to be able to make the necessary efforts. I would also like, in all circumstances, whether it concerns school or the rest of society, for the judiciary to do its own thing so that it does not go this far.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-171	Mr President, I would like to In my previous speech, I indicated what we Christian Democrats see as the basis for tackling the problems: a clear foundation of values defined by rules of conduct followed by a clear link with the family. But more measures are needed. Several have been mentioned here. And we agree on making bets. But I see that there is a need for increased protection for teachers, similar to the idea found in the Blue Light investigation. Important social institutions should not have to risk being subjected to violence. We also need to coordinate society's resources even more. Cooperation between schools, social services and the police needs to be developed and streamlined. If there are obstacles to this coordination, we as politicians should make the necessary political decisions. In the current budget, we have an increased focus on health care. It is important to also expand student health and cut the queues to BUP. Because young people who do not feel well find themselves easily in confrontation. We also need to review an increased possibility of moving students who commit crimes more quickly. A safe upbringing brings safe children. We also need to support parenthood. It is also important to use the resources of the police. More police officers provide the conditions for dealing with the problems we have in society today. More and more people resort to violence, and the limit for the use of weapons is lowered. The perpetrators are younger. The police should be given the task of further informing and making contact to prevent, not just intervene when the crimes occur. To achieve this, we need a comprehensive policy for children and young people. We need a supportive family policy, a good school, an investment in young people's growing-up environment, a thorough crime prevention work and an offensive criminal policy. It is everyone's responsibility to create a calmer situation in school. Let's work together.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-179	Mr President, I would like to Liberals often say, quite rightly, that we put the school first. There is no more important profession in Sweden than the teaching profession. That is why we are inspired by school and education policy. That is what leads a good society and development in the future. That is why we are anxious for the situation in Swedish schools to improve. It is true that many students are happy in our schools. This is shown by the Swedish School Inspectorate's questionnaires. We are even seeing positive developments in school outcomes. You have to say that, too. But there are many unauthorized people leaving comprehensive school, and there are many who leave upper secondary school without basic qualifications to the university or a completed vocational education. It is the problems of order that are the major concerns of the Swedish school right now. It is and should be our headache. It is about school leaders who do not always support their teachers, a teaching staff who do not dare to intervene and who are sometimes opposed, sometimes by politicians, sometimes by principals or by our own school authorities such as the State School Inspectorate or the Children's and Student Ombudsman. It's not something we made up. We have been paying attention to this issue for decades. Over the last two months, I personally have raised the issue of study and security every day and asked for concrete measures. It's not just about more resources and more teaching assistants – although the other day we settled with the government on a proposal of half a billion. It is also about the problems of order and parental responsibility. It is the parents' and students' view of education, school and the role of teachers that are the problem. Mr President, I would like to I sincerely hope that this debate on threats and violence against teachers shows that we have a problem and that we have to solve it. It is basically a question of restoring the status of the teaching profession and respect for Sweden's teachers.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-185	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Roger Haddad for the initiative for this debate. I can see that we agree on most things, almost everything that has been said. I want to ask Roger Haddad a question. You had eight years of power over the school. At the same time, you worked strongly to uphold mass immigration policy. Is Roger Haddad willing to admit that mass immigration policy has had a strong negative impact on the order of the school?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-187	Mr President, I would like to I remember when Patrick Reslow and I were in the alliance group, when he was a representative of the Moderates and did not think there was a problem with the reinfeldt line. I suspect we agreed on those issues. At least you didn't protest, Patrick Reslow. Don't reduce school order problems. It does not matter which place you visit, if it is a free school or municipal school, in an alienation area or in the inner city. The order problems are everywhere. That should be at the heart of the problem.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-189	Mr President, I would like to I agree. That's right, isn't it? At the same time, we can go to the municipalities that have had a large flow of immigrants for a long time, and where we have major problems. Roger Haddad is welcome to come to me in Malmö and visit schools to see what it looks like. We can go to Gothenburg and Södertälje. There are also schools here in Stockholm that have major problems. The question remains: is Roger Haddad willing to admit that mass immigration policy has had a strong negative impact on maintaining order in our schools?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-192	Mr President, I would like to I think we have major integration problems. If there is any party that has lifted this up before the Swedish Democrats even entered the Swedish Parliament, the then People's Party is the Liberals. Unfortunately, we did not get support for many of our more stringent demands for new arrivals in terms of language tests for citizenship or order and order in reception. However, this serious debate on threats and violence against teachers must not be simplified. It doesn't matter who's attacking the teachers or the students. Whatever the case, it's supposed to lead to consistency.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-194	Mr President, I would like to We have debated threats and violence against Sweden's teachers and vice-chancellors for almost an hour and a half. This is a debate that should not really be necessary. But we stand here anyway, because the situation calls for it. We know that disorder is present. It's interference that turns into threats and violence. That is unacceptable. There shall be zero tolerance. Action needs to be taken. There should be security and study at school. That's why we're in agreement. The debate today has shown just that. A number of measures are needed. There's a need for more adults in school. We need to strengthen leadership and strengthen the students' conditions. A package of measures is needed. We can imagine, too, that the reasons why things look the way they do need to be looked for in many places. It's about the shattering in schools, in the classrooms and in the corridors, but it's just one of the places we need to look. We need to search the whole community. Mr President, I would like to I believe that there is growing mistrust of authority in society. The debate as a whole has taken on an increasingly rough tone, not least in social media. When even members of our own parish, Parliament, behave badly on Twitter, for example, it is clear that children and young people follow and take on the raw tone. It's another one of the many places we can look. Mr President, I would like to Let's keep looking. We find action--it's important-- and we need to do it together. I would therefore like to thank you for the debate.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-200	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party advocates peace and quiet and says that a palette of measures is needed. Then I wonder where that palette is. When are we going to see some concrete proposals on how to improve teacher education and how to improve pupil health? When should there really be a focus on the headmaster and school management, which are perhaps the most important people of all? When do we see those proposals? In the National Agency for Education's survey, 30 per cent of the pupils in comprehensive school say that there is no peace of mind in at least half of all classes.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-202	Mr President, I would like to Kristina Axén Olin calls for more measures. She has had two speeches and a number of lines but has not put forward any own proposals for action. I've mentioned a lot. We have contributed money so that 28 000 more adults work at school today. We continue in our amending budget by investing in teaching assistants. It's a measure. We're strengthening leadership. We strengthen the students' conditions. And a national plan for security and study is under way. These are just some of the measures that I have mentioned and that we will take.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-205	Mr President, I would like to Here, however, even what the Riksdag has decided is not carried out and which could influence order and give a better sense of peace of mind. I remind you of the 26 million that Parliament has decided on. They will raise the salaries of first teachers in the outermost regions by 10 000 per month. This has not been done because the government does not help the National Agency for Education to be able to pay out the money to the teachers. We have decided here on the order ratings and the order ratings. It remains to be seen whether you intend at all to implement what a majority here in Parliament has actually decided.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-208	Mr President, I would like to I mentioned a number of measures that we have taken. I do not know why we have not talked about these measures. They are very much about the footwork that is really needed. We don't need any more disciplinary action. It was very clear in the report that the Swedish National Agency for Education came up with as late as last autumn. This is not what the principals want. We need to bet on more adults in school. It's very clear. Order rating I think is a very bad idea, because it takes a lot of resources from the teachers. Instead, we want to add more student assistants so that teachers have more time.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-211	Mr President, I would like to If I am not mistaken, the Green Party sat on the ministerial table for four years and had the full opportunity to correct the shortcomings that existed, but that was not done. On the contrary, we in this House were told time and again that no new measures were needed. What was there was enough. Why is it now that the Green Party is suddenly interested in addressing these issues? Is it perhaps public opinion calling for other insights?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-213	Mr President, I would like to Patrick Reslow asks, among other things, what measures we have taken. We have mentioned a number of the measures we have taken. I have not said in any way that we are therefore satisfied. We will continue to deliver. Already in our amending budget, for example, we are adding 475 million to teachers' assistants. Further steps need to be taken. Student health is clearly one thing that we need to continue to work on.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-215	Mr President, I would like to I think that in a lot this symbolises the problem that exists with the government, which includes the Green Party. The pre-stations you make are weak. There is now a great risk that the problems will remain long after the Green Party has been forced to leave the Swedish parliament. That would be regrettable. We need action now, not then. The question remains: What measures does the Green Party now want to pursue in government?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-218	Mr President, I would like to I mentioned that we agree that the situation in schools is serious. We must continue to take action. When I say that we are taking action, you will not listen to what we say. We have more teachers in school, but we need to give teachers more time and space, for example. But you only want disciplinary measures that the teachers and principals do not ask for. It is footwork and long-termism that is required.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-220	Mr President, I would like to We will act against threats, violence and disorder in school and be clear when they occur. We will act to combat threats, violence and disorder through more resources, a student health that can be proactive, a leadership both in school and in the classroom that ensures security and studyo and through time. Teachers need time to prepare teaching and to carry out teaching. The teachers' working environment and the students' safety are interrelated. They are two sides of the same coin. Teachers' work environment and access to teachers – the desire to be a teacher and work as a teacher – are also connected. They are also two sides of the same coin. The safety of pupils and the development of their knowledge are also linked. They are two sides of the same coin. For everyone who wants to work for an equal school of knowledge, security, study and the teachers' work environment are very important. Thank you for this debate. It has been good to ensure that we have a great opportunity to jointly strengthen security and education in Sweden's schools.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-226	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked Minister Hans Dahlgren if he believes it is reasonable that companies can sue states outside the ordinary legal system and whether Sweden intends to follow the European Commission's recommendation to work towards the abolition of investment protection between EU countries, including the investment protection provided by the International Energy Treaty. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. With regard to the first question, I would like to point out that investment protection agreements are concluded between states to ensure that investors are not subjected, for example, to unfair or discriminatory treatment vis-à-vis their own investors. The agreements also contain a system for resolving disputes arising between investors and states, including through access to binding arbitration. Investment protection agreements are demanded by our investors and have proved to play an important role in cases of breaches of investment protection rules, including in developed countries. The case law of a large number of arbitration procedures has consistently demonstrated that states have far-reaching rights to legislate in order to protect general purposes such as health and the environment. At the same time, from the Swedish side, we have seen a need to modernise investment protection agreements in order to reflect the policy developments that have taken place in this area. Mr President, I would like to The EU has therefore pursued and implemented in the latest trade and investment protection agreements negotiated with Canada, Singapore and Vietnam important reforms that are in many ways globally innovative. Such a reform is precisely about the right to regulate, where the parties to these agreements have made it clear that states have the right to legislate in order to protect the environment, for example, although this would have a negative impact on investors' expectations of profit, for example. The EU has also been given a hearing in the agreements to abandon the system of ad hoc arbitration tribunals and instead to move to a court system with permanently paid judges and an appeal body in order to ensure greater legal certainty, transparency and efficiency. Through the EU, Sweden is also pushing for this reform approach to shape the process now under way to modernise the Energy Charter Treaty. On the second issue of investment protection between EU countries, the Member States agree to the extent that the judgment of the European Court of Justice in March 2018, the so-called Achmea judgment, should be translated into a denunciation of our intra-EU bilateral investment protection agreements. On the other hand, Sweden and a number of other Member States consider that it is in no way clear that the Achmea judgment should be interpreted in such a way that EU internal dispute resolution under the Energy Charter Treaty is also incompatible with EU law. This question is currently subject to judicial review. The government considers that it would be inappropriate to anticipate this test and is therefore not prepared to make any commitments regarding the internal application of the Energy Charter Treaty pending its outcome.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-234	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for the answer to my interpellation. I think this is an important discussion. This is perhaps particularly true because the issue of investor protection is a forgotten dimension in the political debate. Maybe it's not that strange. These are small clauses that enter into international trade agreements and other kinds of agreements. But investor clauses are increasingly used by companies to sue states. According to UN organ Unctad, more than 800 lawsuits have taken place in recent years against states, and the number of lawsuits is increasing. According to Unctad, the companies win in most cases, unlike what the Minister has said earlier in debates. Whatever the case, if a company can sue a state for billions of dollars, it will be a problem for a state to bring forward progressive legislation in the field of perhaps the environment, public health and the like. That is why it is very gratifying that last year the European Court of Justice decided that the investment agreements at least between EU countries should be repealed. It's an anomaly. It is strange and wrong that European companies can sue other European states outside the ordinary judicial system. These are proceedings that do not take place within the ordinary judicial system. This is done in special investor tribunals or, for example, here in Sweden at the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. It's one of the most frequently hired tribunals where corporations can sue states. It is strange that the government seems to think that it is all right for companies to get that sour cream file and to sue states in that way. I would like to ask Ann Linde: What is wrong with the ordinary judiciary? If a company feels badly treated, it can go to an ordinary court. Why should it be a special investor tribunal system for the companies? I am also not so sure that it is a system that is particularly requested by Swedish companies, for example. What I think is important for companies if they are to invest in another country is the level of education in that country, wage levels, that there is order and order in the labour market so that they know what applies when they employ and so on. It may be that there is a local market that wants to buy your products and so on. Having special investor protection is usually a very long way down on the business priority list. It is therefore strange that the Swedish Government's line is to affirm that the investment agreements should be removed between EU countries, but not when it comes to investor protection within the international energy treaty. It is the Energy Treaty that Vattenfall has twice leaned against when it has sued the German state for the decommissioning of nuclear power and for stricter requirements for emissions from coal power plants in Hamburg. Why should the international energy treaty's investor protection not also be included and removed?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-241	Madam President, I would like With regard to investment protection agreements, I would like to point out that it is essentially a question of giving investors from a country the right to be treated fairly and fairly and not discriminated against in relation to their own interests and investors. They shall receive appropriate financial compensation, for example, in the case of expropriation. Unlike what Jens Holm now says, investment protection agreements are something that is demanded by our investors and that has proven to play an important role. Although investment protection agreements are particularly important in countries with uncertain and unstable legal systems, violations of investor rights may also occur in developed countries. Jens Holm himself takes an example of this when the German Federal Constitutional Court concluded in 2016 that the German Government had the full right to phase out nuclear power. But to do this without offering reasonable compensation would have been a violation of constitutional property rights. This is something that is extremely important for the development of democratic countries. I would also like to take this opportunity to comment on Jens Holm's claim that investment moods would have developed into a threat to progressive legislation at national level. There is no empirical evidence for this. On the contrary, the case law of a large number of arbitrations shows that states have far-reaching rights to legislate in order to protect public purposes, such as health and the environment. This also applies to inclusive legislation such as the introduction of neutral cigarette packaging, as in the case of Philip Morris against Uruguay, which is often incorrectly used in the discussion. Arbitration courts have considered that it is part of the State's right to regulate. At the same time, from the Swedish side, we have seen a need to modernise investment protection agreements. That's where I want to give Jens Holm the right. There have been very many bad parts of what we want to modernise when we look at the political development of investment protection agreements. That is why the Canada, Singapore and Vietnam agreements have been successful in making important reforms to the Investment Protection Agreement. Such a reform is precisely about the right to regulate. There the parties have written in the agreements that they have the right to legislate in order to protect the environment, for example, even if it would have a negative impact on investors' expectations of future profits. I think that the EU is pushing this issue to begin to modernise also the Energy Charter Treaty.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-247	Madam President, I would like I have to ask the Minister a question. The Minister says that investor protection does not constitute any obstacle to progressive legislation. Let us take Canada as an example. Canada was one of the world's first industrialised countries to receive a very developed investor protection against itself in the form of the NAFTA agreement in 1994. Canada has probably become the world's most tuned industrial nation. It's tuned more than 35 times, I think, often by U.S. companies or Canadian companies that established themselves in the U.S. in order to sue Canada. When the state of Quebec banned the extraction of fossil gas, they immediately got a big lawsuit against them. There have been lawsuits against you when you have tried to limit oil extraction and because you want to protect more nature. Then you have also got lawsuits of many billions. Canada can legislate in this area. That is quite correct. But it has a very high price. No legislator wants to be forced to pay tens of billions in compensation to companies that feel that their profits have been compromised. Therefore, Ann Linde, investor protection is removed from the renegotiated NAFTA agreement. Canada has negotiated it off with the United States. I think there's a reason you've done it. You don't want to get these corporate relationships against you anymore. This also applies to Australia and New Zealand, Ann Linde is happy to correct me on this point. Is it not the case that in the new free trade agreements with the EU Australia and New Zealand do not want investor protection? Why is that? They may not want new lawsuits from tobacco companies hanging over them. The Mercosur countries of South America are another example. India and Indonesia are other examples of states that do not want investor protection. I think it is simply that you want to be able to trust your normal legal systems. You don't want any special cream files for companies. Madam President, I would like Why do Ann Linde and the Swedish Government want it? I don't understand that. Waterfalls are interesting. That case was just before the Constitutional Court in Germany. That is quite correct. I also think it may be reasonable for a national court to decide that a State should grant compensation. But why should Vattenfall proceed to a separate investor tribunal when this already falls under the ordinary legal system? It only shows that this is a special procedure, which is outside the ordinary judicial system. I think it is good that the EU is pushing for the agreements to be removed at least between EU countries. It's a good start. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister once again: why is the Swedish Government pushing for the removal of the investment agreements between the EU countries, but not the agreements within the framework of the international energy treaty? Or have I misunderstood the Swedish position in this case? To be honest, it seems that the Swedish Government is fully in line with Vattenfall's affairs. It wants to remove investor agreements between EU countries in all other areas, but not where Vattenfall has sued the German state in a special investor tribunal. Although this is a matter for judicial review, the Swedish State can record its views in the review. I would like to ask: has the Swedish State done so?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-256	Madam President, I would like Let me start with Jens Holm's comment on Canada. First of all, it has to be said that Canada's government is one of the most progressive in the world. I have full confidence in the Canadian Foreign Minister, as I also know, in the negotiations on the USMCA that have now been made. The reason for removing the investment agreement is, among other things, that Canada has been fully involved in the new arbitration procedure for investments. Canada and the EU have been pushing for this to be global and firm and to have permanent judges and appeal bodies. So you're not supposed to have it this specific. With regard to Jens Holm's question of investment protection between EU countries and its removal, the government is determined to remove the agreements and comply with what EU law requires with the Achmea court decision. We will terminate all our over 60 bilateral agreements. On the other hand, Sweden, like a number of other Member States, considers that it is not clear that the Achmea judgment should be interpreted in such a way that EU internal dispute resolution under the Energy Charter Treaty is incompatible with EU law. The Achmea judgment does not give an opinion on the Energy Charter Treaty. It is designed in a way that also differs on important points from bilateral investment protection agreements. Above all, however, the compatibility of the Energy Charter Treaty with EU law is currently subject to judicial review. There has been a so-called nullity and acquittal to Svea Court of Appeal. Therefore, the government feels it would be inappropriate to anticipate the trial. I and the government are not prepared to speak on this until we have a statement from the Court of Appeal. It is also worth pointing out that a large number of the arbitrators recently announced in intra-EU disputes with the Energy Charter Treaty as underlying agreements have been about the defendant state being sentenced to pay financial compensation to investors in the renewable energy sector. This is due to a breach of investors' legitimate expectations regarding the phasing out of renewable energy subsidies. I think this would be interesting for Jens Holm, because it shows that investment protection agreements can play an important role in protecting the renewable industry against breaches of the investment protection principle. Instead, if investment protection between EU countries under this agreement were to be lifted, as Jens Holm believes, these renewable energy investors would not have had the right to call for arbitration in order to obtain compensation for the financial damage they have suffered.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-262	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that there are, of course, examples of the latter – that companies have received compensation because the conditions for renewable energy have deteriorated. I would like to recall that there have been cases in Spain and Italy. But these countries are also, in fact, the rule of law, so even in these cases we can go to the ordinary judiciary. We do not need to build up separate investor protection for companies. It feels a bit like Ann Linde and the Swedish government are cargo man standing on the boat that is sinking. Australia, New Zealand, Mercosur, India, Indonesia and North America – more and more people realise that investor protection is an anomaly. There is something that does not belong between the rule of law. You abandon investor protection. But why Ann Linde and the Swedish government crampedly cling to this investor protection mast, I really do not understand. I would like to conclude by again asking my question. As it is now, the position of the Swedish Government is that investor protection between EU countries should be removed except for the international energy treaty. I would therefore like to ask Ann Linde whether this position can be changed on the basis of the Svea Court of Appeal process. And will the Swedish Government submit an opinion to the process in Svea Court of Appeal on investor protection within the framework of the international energy treaty?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-265	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I think it is reasonable when you want to make major investments that you also have the opportunity to be compensated if there are major changes. This could include expropriation, for example. This happened, for example, when Sweden decided to phase out nuclear power. The state had to pay out a large amount to Eon because they had invested in building the nuclear power plants. Then we changed policies, which we have the full right to do, and then we paid out to Eon. It is the same question that applies to Vattenfall today. You've changed your policy, which is perfectly all right according to everything. And of course the company has the right to claim compensation. It is not something the government interferes with, because it is a matter for the company. One should be able to use investment courts precisely to ensure that the country in which one has invested does not have an advantage, which is what many investors think will happen. If you invest in a country and the country then receives a claim for compensation, there is a risk that this country will give its own state more rights than you give the individual company. So that's what you're afraid to happen. Jens Holm claims that the investment protection agreements constitute a threat to progressive legislation. I will come back to this because I think it is important: there is no empirical evidence for this. On the contrary, case law has shown that it has very far-reaching rights to protect the environment and health. It has also been shown that investment protection agreements have protected the renewable sector.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-270	Madam President, I would like Johanna Rantsi has asked me what measures I intend to take to get more teachers to stay in the teaching profession and what measures I intend to take to ensure that more people are trained as teachers. I would like to start by saying that I very much agree with the interpeller that we need more educated teachers. As I have replied earlier in this House, the lack of teachers is one of the biggest challenges facing the school system. During the last term of office, there was a major expansion of teacher and pre-school education throughout the country, and in recent years we have been at historically high levels in terms of the number of students admitted. The academic year 2017 – 2018 started about 2,400 more students than in the academic year 2013 – 2014. The government has also invested in more ways into the teaching profession, including through several initiatives on the complementary educational education, the KPU. In recent years, the number of graduates from the KPU has increased, which is positive. At the same time, however, we have had an increase in the number of children and pupils in the Swedish school and preschool, which is the main reason why the proportion of qualified teachers is decreasing. Making more people want to be and remain teachers will therefore continue to be a high priority for the government. In the January agreement on which the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals have just agreed, there are several proposals for more teachers. Among other things, it is mentioned that the prerequisites for academics to become teachers should be facilitated. In addition, the length of supplementary educational education should be shortened and the pace of study increased. In addition, the possibilities of working at a school and studying to become a teacher in parallel will be improved. It is also very important that teachers remain in the teaching profession. Wages and opportunities to develop in the profession are two reasons for wanting to remain a teacher. With the teacher's salary boost introduced by the government in the last parliamentary term, 67 000 teachers have received increased salaries. The January agreement includes the introduction of a professional programme for teachers and principals. The Profession Programme shall provide a framework for the professional development of teachers and principals and strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession. I also share the opinion of the interpellier that teachers are teachers because they want to teach, and that there needs to be conditions for this. That's why the government has invested in more staff at school. Today, about 28,000 more people work in Swedish schools compared to 2014. The January agreement provides for resources to be allocated to employ more teachers' assistants. National guidelines will be developed on how teachers' assistants, socionomists and other professional groups can relieve teachers. The agreement also contains a series of measures to counter the lack of study and security described by the interpeller. Among other things, a national plan for learning and safety at school should be implemented and pupils who have threatened or subjected others to violence should be more easily switched off or relocated. Finally, I note that work to reduce the shortage of teachers, both in the short and long term, will need to continue, so that more people want to become and remain teachers.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-277	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer! Most teachers probably become teachers because they want to teach. I therefore welcome the proposals that allow teachers to spend more time on teaching. Teacher assistants are such an initiative that Anna Ekström highlights. They can relieve teachers of non-educational tasks and ensure that teachers spend more time on what they are competent in. We have a skills problem today. The lack of teachers is enormous. This is also highlighted in the answer. Teachers' qualifications in comprehensive school are now down to 70.5 per cent, and nearly 80 000 teachers will be missing within a couple of years. Unfortunately, there are many factors that discourage people from becoming teachers today and also from remaining in the profession. It's disorder, lack of security and study. Threats and violence are what we read about in the media and see in our schools. Anna Ekström believes that in recent years we have been at historically high levels in terms of the number of admitted students in teacher education. That's good, but it's not good enough. It is because the number of students who get through the education has decreased, and the drop-out from the teacher education is sky high. They worry me. In a study from the University of Gothenburg, almost booklets of students who have dropped out of teacher education indicate that they have done so for teacher education-related reasons. We need to review teacher training. We need better, high-quality teacher training. A further link shown by the study is a statistical relationship between drop-out and upper secondary school grades. Students admitted to teacher education with low upper secondary school grades drop out of education to a greater extent than others. Here's a problem. As Anna Ekström, focusing on the number of students admitted to teacher education does not solve the basic problem. Increasing the number of places on teacher training gives more students with lower merit points, which gives more drop-outs and lower quality. This contributes to increased costs and does not have the necessary effect. It is a waste of resources that could have been used to improve the working environment for the teachers we already have. For it is true that every other teacher has considered leaving the teaching profession. 38 000 trained teachers have already done this. Nine out of ten teachers feel that they do not have time for their regular duties during regular working hours. What is even more worrying is that we are seeing an increase in unemployment among teachers. This is because more teachers resign at their own request, and the reason for this is precisely a deterioration in the working environment. At the same time, there is a huge shortage of teachers. This is one of the major problems in Swedish school today. Action is too slow, and I do not feel that the government is doing enough. The development I have described is frightening, and action must deliver already now. This is the day-to-day life of teachers. It affects our students. How does Anna Ekström ensure that the measures described here give effect all the way into the classroom for students and teachers?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-289	Madam President, I would like Teacher is, I would say, our most important profession. As Johanna Rantsi says, we have an alarming shortage of teachers. It is a shortage problem that spills over in a great many areas. Without access to well-trained and experienced teachers, we also do not get enough prospective engineers, nurses, doctors, sheet metal workers and cooks – all the professions where we also have a great shortage today. The lack of teachers is thus at risk of exacerbating the lack of other well-educated professionals that exist in Sweden. Thus, teachers are, I believe, our most important profession. Everything we can do to ensure that more people want to become teachers, that the teachers we have remain and that teachers who have left the profession return are also worth doing. We are in complete agreement on this matter. We fully agree that if we are to solve this, it is not a simple measure that is required. Johanna Rantsi lists a number of measures that are largely concerned with teacher training. That is the responsibility of my colleague, Matilda Ernkrans, so I can only give an overview of this and may refer to Matilda Ernkrans when it comes to questions about teacher training. However, there is a lot to be said about teachers' working environment. When I went around talking to teachers a few years ago about what was needed to strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession, it was often the salary that was highlighted. When I meet teachers today, of course, there are many who have wishes and views on pay, but question number one is the working environment and the increased pressure, which of course is linked to the lack of teachers. Here it is important to do many things at the same time. In Matilda Ernkrans's area, work is under way to strengthen the conditions for entering teacher training. I went through it in my written answer. In my area, it is very important to ensure that the teachers we have will have, just Johanna Rantsi writes in the interpellation, the opportunity to engage in what they actually became teachers for, namely to teach. Today, we in the government have told us that, in cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals, we will go forward with a large package to strengthen access to teaching assistants. 475 million conor will be set aside in the spring amending budget which will be submitted to the House in a few days' time. I dare tell you this because the Liberals have already gone out and announced this. Of course, this will be an important reform. It will also be important how it is implemented, as teachers' assistants will relieve the teachers. This should not mean that teachers should be allowed to supervise the teachers' assistants, but rather that the teachers' assistants should actually relieve the teachers of what the teachers experience as most troublesome and most in the way of teaching. Madam President, I would like It is a lot about the social tasks that lie with teachers – contacts with different authorities and contacts with homes and the like. For a teacher, it is important to have documentation in your work. All academically trained groups work with different forms of documentation, but the documentation that the teachers are going to devote themselves to I want to be linked to exactly what the interpellier addresses in his question, namely the teaching. The emphasis on teaching assistants is important. The reason why I think it is important is that it is my firm conviction that we must do many things if we are to overcome the teacher shortage. Together, we must ensure that the teaching profession becomes the attractive profession that it actually once was. Unless teachers themselves perceive the profession as attractive, it doesn't matter what we do.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-299	Madam President, I would like Anna Ekström highlights the work environment as important. I can only agree with that. When I'm not in Parliament, I'm in school. I work at an amazing high school in Angered in Gothenburg. I work as a teacher. I see a lot of the beauty and beauty there is. But I also see what doesn't work. I see how teachers can't take it anymore. I never imagined being a teacher would be so emotionally engaging and demanding. Quite often I and my colleagues break down. That's a lot. As I said earlier, nine out of ten teachers feel that they do not have time for their duties. I can tell you that I have never laughed, or for that matter cried, so much in one place of work. It's emotionally engaging. You often feel inadequate. It creates resignation in the faculty when you don't have time to take a break, don't have time to go to the bathroom and, above all, don't have time to help their students. Many people get sick leave, and some choose to go down on time. We need to review teachers' use of time. We need to see what they're actually doing. We need to see everything that is done in addition to teaching. Social relations with students are of great importance, but teachers should not have to be administrators. There is much to do in these areas. Teachers in Sweden spend less time on teaching than in other countries. Several hours a day are spent on administration and care. At the same time, we know that teachers' competence is one of the factors that has the greatest impact on students' performance. We need to take better care of teachers' time. For those who want to go from another profession to the teaching profession, it needs to be easier to read a supplementary teacher education. We need to remove rigid rules and bureaucracy. We also need more career steps in the profession. I welcome the fact that we have introduced career services, such as first teacher services. We need to ensure that more competent teachers remain in teaching. There are too few career steps in school today. Many competent teachers disappear into other industries. We need to make sure they can advance without leaving the classrooms. Anna Ekström talks about efforts to strengthen the attractiveness of the profession and about the importance of having society's support in the back. But where are the concrete measures? It is not enough to talk about this. Action must be taken quickly. This has long been a problem, and the measures are too late. This must have an effect all the way into the classroom, for the sake of the teachers, but above all for the sake of the students. A colleague of mine told me that, as a new member, she was told that the profession consists of 70% toil and discomfort and 30% joy, but that 30% weighs up all the effort and tears. But with the conditions, Anna Ekström, we do not make the teaching profession more attractive. The government has failed to create attractiveness for the teaching profession. It has to go faster. The problems are acute. How will Anna Ekström make the teaching profession attractive again?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-309	Madam President, I would like Johanna Rantsi lists a number of shortcomings. I can say a little self-critically that we have not done enough work to strengthen the teaching profession in Sweden. I want to go as far as saying that there are more of us who should share that burden of debt. I don't want to acquit the government I operate in. Nor do I want to acquit former Social Democratic governments. Nor would I want to acquit the bourgeois government that we had for eight years. Here we have a shared responsibility. We also have a shared interest in finding solutions. I am convinced that if we are to strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession, we must have a collection behind the school and a collection behind the teaching profession. And those of us who act within the policy framework must make an effort to contribute to a stronger attractiveness of the teaching profession. Johanna Rantsi spoke about teachers' use of time. I believe that this is a key aspect of health and safety at work. I would like to mention a few brief examples of what has been done during the term of office that we have behind us. After all, I had the confidence to act as High School and Knowledge Lift Minister for two of the four years. In my area, I can cite one of many examples: we introduced a clear provision that the mentor does not have to be a teacher. We did this to ensure that teachers, where they are wanted, can focus fully on teaching. I also mentioned in my reply that Matilda Ernkrans, in his area of responsibility, under the January Agreement, will produce a complementary educational education for existing academics, which will be faster than today's. Johanna Rantsi raised an issue which, I believe, is absolutely crucial, namely the development of teachers. We talk a lot at school about the students' progression, but also a teacher develops during working life. If we compare teachers with other academicly trained professionals, we see that there is often a lack of clear professional development, a clear professional development, during working life. Those who do not become Vice-Chancellor have relatively little opportunity to take steps in their professional development and also rather little opportunity to develop. Here I can tell you that the professional programme with which the government will work very hard and which is included in the January agreement gives us great opportunities to strengthen teachers' professional development. For my part, I am convinced that we have much to learn from other countries. Countries that have sustained high levels of knowledge in the various knowledge measurements are often characterised by strong confidence and trust in teachers' professional practices and clear professional development. I could give examples. I would be happy to come back to that in my next speech if there is any interest in it. But let me just say that it is a professional programme that ensures that teachers know how to develop in the profession and that they have access to skills development that will enable them to be strengthened in their teaching role during the course of the teaching profession. They shall also be given opportunities to take on other tasks within the framework of the teaching profession. Let me give you an example: mentoring VFU students is typically one of those things that requires a little more experience than a completely new graduate teacher has and which also requires a certain level of competence development. I would also like to point out the opportunity that far too many principals do not take seriously enough. This is about the period of mentoring to which a newly graduated teacher is actually entitled at the beginning of his or her professional activities. In doing so, I note that a very large part of the responsibility for these issues lies with our principals. However, I intend to strengthen as much as possible the possibilities for the principals to do their job well.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-318	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Anna Ekström is talking about competence development. I do not think, however, that we should forget that this needs to be done on the basis of local needs. The need needs to come from the grass-roots level. I think we should be careful not to impal it too much from a political point of view. On the other hand, there is a need for increased government efforts, but we cannot have too much state subsidies aimed at schools. The municipalities face common challenges, but they also have very different ones. Local politicians are hand-fellow in many places. There's not enough resources. The lack of teachers has been the biggest problem here. It has contributed to a wage sliding that we see in many parts of the country. Wages have increased very quickly there. This means that there is a lack of resources in many municipalities. The increase in teachers' salaries is positive in many ways, but it also contributes to new problems. Municipalities in different parts of the country have different conditions. I am concerned that equivalence is not maintained in Swedish schools. The trend now indicates that students will not have the same conditions regardless of where they live in the country. The lack of teachers is not cured with more places in teacher education, but we need to improve the quality of teacher training and make the teaching profession attractive again. In particular, the Swedish National Agency for Education needs to continue to review teachers' time use and make suggestions on how more time can be freed up for planning, quality assurance and teaching. To solve the problem of skills supply, teachers must be allowed to be teachers. We seem to agree on that. You have to teach and spend more time with actual students.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-323	Madam President, I would like Johanna Rantsi, in her final speech, raises the lack of resources, and this is an issue that concerns me. We see in many municipalities a situation where resources are scarce while the student groups are increasing. Then it is very good that the government has a completely new state grant with support in the January agreement that strengthens equivalence and where the money goes where it is most needed. Johanna Rantsi also talks about equivalence. I would like to take this opportunity to urge Johanna Rantsi to be as self-critical and trying as I have tried to be in my posts here. We Social Democrats, if I may take a Social Democratic position even though I represent the government, have reconsidered our school policy and been self-critical. I call for the same self-criticism on the part of the Moderates. It is time to face up to the truth and realise that the strong market governance that the Swedish school has come to be subject to has not been good for equivalence. It is not a left-wing think tank that says this, but the OECD, our great international economic organisation. Having said that and if we put that disagreement, which is a clear disagreement between the two of us, behind us, I can say that we seem to agree on a great deal. From my point of view, an attractive teaching profession requires a good working environment for teachers. A good working environment for teachers is also a good and safe study environment for students. Security, study, the working environment of teachers and the attractiveness of the teaching profession are inextricably linked to the pupils' learning outcomes. For all those who want an equal school of knowledge, the attractiveness of the teaching profession is therefore crucial. Thank you for the debate.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-327	Madam President, I would like Johanna Rantsi has asked me what measures I intend to take as a minister to secure pupils' right to safety and to study at school. I would like to begin by emphasising the importance of ensuring that all girls and boys, as well as all staff, are safe in school. Violations, threats and violence against children, students or staff must never be accepted. As Johanna Rantsi also points out, a safe working environment is a prerequisite for children's and pupils' learning and development. A safe working environment also promotes the attractiveness of the teaching profession. Education in schools must be designed in accordance with the School Act to ensure that all pupils are provided with a school environment characterised by security and education. The school's work to achieve security and education includes disciplinary measures as well as educational leadership and measures to counteract insulting treatment. As with much else in school, both clear rules and systematic development work are needed to achieve the results we seek. In July 2019, changes to the curricula for primary and secondary schools, among other things, will enter into force, clarifying the Vice-Chancellor's special responsibility for safety and study. The responsibility of pupils to show respect for school staff and other pupils is also highlighted by these curriculum changes. I have recently answered several similar questions about safety and education at school. I am pleased that there are many of us who are committed to these issues. My comments remain clear: in accordance with the January agreement, the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party will jointly develop a national plan for school education and safety during their term of office. This work includes reviewing the possibilities for disciplinary action and how we can ensure a functioning regulatory framework for good work with safety and education at school. Students who have threatened or subjected others to violence should be able to switch off or relocate more easily. The disciplinary measures of the School Act should be used by teachers and principals. Teachers should feel that they have the support of the whole community in maintaining a safe school environment. Then both the principal and principal as well as the politics need to give the teachers that support.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-333	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anna Ekström, for your answer. The same subject has been debated earlier today in this House, and a number of interpellations have also been answered in the past. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight my perspective on the subject. The media continuously report increased threats and violence in schools, while lack of studies is a persistent problem. Teachers are forced to spend more and more time maintaining order in the classrooms, and the result is less focus on teaching. This is happening at the same time as the lack of teachers is becoming increasingly evident, something we have talked about in the past. We thus have fewer qualified teachers who spend less time teaching, which will have major consequences for the quality of education in Swedish schools and ultimately students' results. The number of notifications of threats and violence to the Swedish Work Environment Authority has doubled in just five years. Schools are forced to send their students home when you cannot guarantee security for them and the teachers. A later example of this is Lundenskolan in Gothenburg, which on 21 March this year had to send all students home in a full year after what the school's vice-chancellor called a threat situation. Lundenskolan is far from the only school. Last year we had at my own workplace in one school a number of incidents that allowed the school to be completely shut down to over 1,000 students because their security could not be guaranteed. Fires and rockets were fired in corridors, and there were threats and violence. It was a very special feeling. Imagine explaining to those students who are there of good will because they want to learn and because they care that they can't stay in school for security reasons! It's sad to take that call. No one has the right to deprive another student of their right to education. The fact that students cannot stay in school because of insecurity is alarming. Unfortunately, this is also happening today in the classrooms, where insufficient studies are not maintained. Anna Ekström changes her curriculum. It introduces a writing about the pupils' responsibility to show respect for the school staff and other students. At the same time, teachers testify that they refrain from acting in threatening situations because they do not feel supported by clear legislation. As a teacher, it is frustrating to have no support in maintaining studies in your own classroom. Does Anna Ekström really believe that a new writing in the curriculum can create security for our teachers and students when they do not feel supported by society and the law?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-340	Madam President, I would like No, of course, a single writing in a curriculum is not enough. But if this writing together with many other efforts can lead us to repeat it again and again for ourselves so that it is the teacher who decides in the classroom, that students should show respect for and respect for their peers and teachers and that students have a joint responsibility for their own learning and a responsibility to contribute to a good study environment at the school, then I think it has an effect. What else do we have our curricula for but to tell you what is the purpose of the school? I would also like to remind Johanna Rantsi that a key prerequisite for students' learning is actually that the students are co-responsible. I am concerned about the view of knowledge that spreads from time to time. You can imagine a customer perspective. Students feel they have the right to receive a certain grade. Students never have the right to receive a certain grade. Students have the right to receive so much support at school that they learn as much as they can. The student who makes a real effort should feel that the student also receives that support. But a school where students and sometimes parents put clear and hard demands on teachers, treating teachers as providers of grades rather than clear leaders in the important learning, is on the wrong track. I hope that the change in the curriculum that we have made, as proposed by the School Commission, and with strong support in international research on the importance of students' commitment to learn a lot, will lead us to see our school as a common educational institution and never confuse it with a position in the market – which one. I would also like to emphasise what I already mentioned in my reply, namely that threats and violence at school are never acceptable. Zero tolerance must prevail against threats and violence at school. Unfortunately, the student who threatens or is violent to his peers or teacher, and who must not take the consequences, receives the signal that this is something that society accepts. The students are going to the community after school. In society as a whole, threats and violence are not accepted. It should of course not be accepted in school either. Of course, students who use threats and violence in school should be told that they do not do so, not in society and not in school. We agree on the direction. I sometimes get a little perplexed about the debate about threats and violence at school. What do we want our teachers to feel? Do we want the teachers and principals to feel that this is an area where society joins, where our politicians say with one voice that they will help them? The teachers and principals will be given the tools they need. Or do we want the issue of threats and violence to be an arena for political battles and exchange of words? I want the first thing. The work is important, and we should make sure that together we help our teachers and principals as much as possible to maintain security and studyers – for the sake of the students.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-348	Madam President, I would like Students have the right to feel safe at school. The same applies to staff. Anna Ekström lifts up feel counter to do. I do not think that measures with supplements in the curriculum and repeating who is in charge in the classroom are enough. Better measures are needed than that. This does not reach all the way out into the classrooms. I'm sorry, but I'm there in the classroom, and those words aren't enough. Teachers are hand-trapped. I meet many teachers at my own workplace and in other municipalities, as a politician in parliament and as a municipal politician. There is a fear of registration in Swedish school today. We need to talk about these issues, but we need to take action and do things. It's going too slow, and we have to react now. One example that has been taken up in the media is Carina, who lifted a messy student out of the classroom. She was reported and acquitted, and yet she lost her job. I've experienced threats and violence. There has been physical violence, kicks, tables and chairs flying, and I have heard less pleasant words. It's sad. Most students want to be in school, and they do well. But it is those students who want to be in school and behave who are the losers when security and study cannot be maintained in school corridors and classrooms. Threats and violence should never be accepted. There we agree, Anna Ekström. Threats and violence must be reported and vigorously combated. What worries me, however, is that we still accept too much. The habit of being called ugly words, between students and between students and teachers, makes us raise the pain threshold. Let me explain what I mean. The first time you are met with an offensive word, you react, but the tenth time you do not react in the same way. Where do we put that limit in society? This applies not only to what is said at school, but to the whole climate of conversation in society. Being called unpleasant words, being threatened or being afraid of being exposed has gone too far. It has escalated in Swedish school. No teachers should feel threatened when they engage in the exercise of official authority. It is frightening that teachers today are threatened when they engage in the exercise of authority. It affects the rule of law throughout our society. There needs to be a tough tightening up of the school law, which clarifies the competences of teachers. Teachers feel they have obligations but have no rights because the law is far too unclear. Anna Ekström pointed out in an earlier debate today that she is prepared to review the school law. When are you prepared to review the school law and make these changes, Anna Ekström?
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-359	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by expressing my deepest respect for Johanna Rantsi and all other teachers who suffer threats, abuse and sometimes even physical abuse at school. I really want to express my support for those teachers, principals and students who in different ways ensure that such behaviour has consequences. I hope, like Johanna Rantsi, that the behaviour will not be accepted, that we should not get used to that behaviour. I can assure Johanna Rantsi that the students who get the signal that that behavior is somehow okay also become losers. It is behaviour that is not accepted in the rest of society. Then it should be even less accepted in school. I would also like to welcome what Johanna Rantsi says about the importance of a good climate for conversation and the importance of us politicians not only setting an example in other areas, but also thinking about the ways in which we express ourselves in the debate. The tone we use in social media risks, of course, if we do not think about it, spilling over into a much too coarse language even among society's other actors, including students. I can add that this is an issue that I hope Johanna Rantsi will contribute to discussing in the various parliamentary party groups. Johanna Rantsi addresses the need to change the school law. I have made it quite clear several times that we should look at the powers of principals and teachers. So far, I haven't met a single teacher who wants to act as a security guard or wants to act forcefully against students. But I have met many teachers who said that when a situation arises so that you as a teacher and adult have to take responsibility to maintain security and study, it can go quickly. It can be very difficult in the course of a few seconds to decide exactly how to act. It can be a uncertainty associated with what is okay, allowed or not allowed. I want it to be clear. I will also work to make it clearer and easier to manage for the principals the opportunities to turn off and relocate students who threaten or behave violently against other students or teachers. There are also a number of other proposals under way, such as suggestions for teacher assistants. It's a big financial venture. Furthermore, there are proposals for a mobile ban. We'll get back to that question. Johanna Rantsi wondered when these proposals would be presented. I will deal with this issue together with the Center Party and the Liberals in the government's joint work to comply with the January agreement. There are questions about the safety of students and students clearly enrolled. Last but not least, Johanna Rantsi points out that there is a fear of complaints. Yeah, I've met that fear, too. I would like to send the question back to Johanna Rantsi. Does Johanna Rantsi think that we should reduce the students' opportunities to report things that are wrong in school? I wonder, then, what happens to young girls and boys who want to report that they are exposed to problems of honour, perhaps even within the school framework, by other students who are subjected to sexual abuse or various forms of abusive expression? I call for an answer from Johanna Rantsi on how to ensure students' right to a safe study time if there is no possibility of reporting wrong behaviour.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-366	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is important that both students, teachers and guardians should be able to report. We're not going to take that away. It's really important. What I mean by the fear of registration is rather that I think teachers are afraid of being registered and that it discourages. We have seen an example where a teacher acted on what she thought was right in a threatening situation. She was reported and then acquitted but was still forced away from her job under different circumstances. So there is a fear among teachers, who do not dare to act according to the legislation we have. The customer perspective raised Anna Ekström in a previous post. I think it is of the utmost importance to be able to choose – to choose a school and to be able to opt out of a school that does not work. Unlike the Minister for Education, I believe that this is of great importance. Action is now needed. We cannot wait too long with investigations and other things. This is a problem that we see in school today. I am pleased that the Riksdag has decided on the order reviews. It is another way of providing tools to increase safety and education at school. Nor should we forget all the good things that happen in school. There is a fantastic work with fantastic students and above all fantastic teachers. It was mentioned in the debate here earlier today how teachers want to describe the situation in school. There's not a good answer to that. The situation in school is often very good, but there are a few students who destroy for others and take away their right to education. It is important, in order to answer Anna Ekström's question, that students can report. But we must also give teachers the right conditions to act on this.
i-1566c7ca6d2e741e-374	Madam President, I would like I can only say that, with regard to the question of the order reviews, I and Johanna Rantsi make totally different assessments. I do not want us to introduce a regulatory framework that forces teachers to devote very much valuable time – time that could have gone to teaching and to maintaining security and study – to writing order reviews, as the vast majority and the majority of students run the school perfectly. I think that's the wrong time. When we discuss order reviews, I would also like to remind you that it is not the school's job to raise the students. It's the parents' job to raise the students. This is something that I think we need to be very clear about in Swedish school. All the tasks involving teachers taking over parental responsibility, I think, are heading in the wrong direction. I would like to state clearly my intention to act in the fight against disorder, threats and violence at school. The safety and study of pupils is important for the results of knowledge but also for the teachers' work environment, which we discussed in the previous interpellation debate. That work I will – without spending too much time on it – do with care and at the time that legislative acts always require. I think that Swedish school has learned the hard way when you introduce lots of ill-considered and carelessly implemented decisions that are quickly implemented out at the schools. If it is something that Sweden's teachers are tired of, it is. I'm not gonna soak up. I will not spend too much time on this. But I will not put forward proposals that are not worked out, because these are issues that are important for Sweden's teachers and students. With those words I have to thank Johanna Rantsi for a nice interpellation. We agree on the objective but sometimes have slightly different views on the methods.
