i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-2	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the KU5 Follow-up to Parliament's application of the principle of subsidiarity. This is the first time that I myself have debated this annual report; on the other hand, I have been a part of the drafting process in the past. The committees are, of course, a decisive consultation body. I sat in the last parliamentary term in the Tax Committee and worked at times intensively on subsidiarity tests, sometimes with satisfactory points of view but sometimes also with frequent criticism. It is therefore gratifying to be part of Parliament's overall work on the examination of the principle of subsidiarity. For those who take part in the debate, including via television, the subject of the day may feel strange and perhaps somewhat unclear. Let me, therefore, first of all make a simpler background statement. According to the parliamentary order, the KU must follow the application in Parliament of the principle of subsidiarity and communicate its observations to the House. The follow-up is therefore twofold – it is the formal handling in Parliament of draft legislative acts, and a helicopter perspective for the Riksdag in terms of developing subsidiarity control and learning lessons from the accumulated experience. The Constitutional Committee has followed up on Parliament's use of the principle of subsidiarity in 2017. Parliament examines all draft legislative proposals that come from the EU on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. Subsidiarity testing means that the Riksdag assesses whether a proposal for action should be taken at EU level or by the Member States themselves. Subsidiarity testing therefore involves determining the level – at Union or national level – of the proposed measure, not whether or not it should be undertaken. The Parliament carried out 90 subsidiarity reviews in 2017. This was a decrease compared to 2016, when 101 proposals were reviewed. The Parliament submitted three reasoned opinions to the EU institutions in 2017. This was a sharp decrease compared to 2016, when 13 reasoned opinions were delivered. A reasoned opinion means that Parliament sends objections to the EU Commission and other EU institutions if it considers that a proposal violates the principle of subsidiarity. In 2017, no proposal received enough objections from the national parliaments of the EU countries to obtain a so-called yellow card. The fact that a proposal has a yellow card means that the European Commission must reconsider it. After the review, the Commission may decide to maintain, amend or withdraw its proposal. The KU believes that there is reason to consider how national parliaments in the EU countries can exchange information in order to improve the chances of achieving the yellow card threshold, something I will come back to a little later. The committee has received opinions from eight committees within the framework of this year's follow-up. The opinions contain valuable observations and comments for follow-up and are of crucial importance for comprehensive follow-up. It is therefore the comments of Parliament's committees that form the basis of this report. Of course, the criticisms and views differ from different policy areas and committees. For those who wish to know more, I refer to reading the report. However, let me make a few comments in general, and this is also a recurring conclusion from the committee. As the Constitutional Committee has said in the past, directives rather than regulations can typically give greater scope to the Member States. Several of the committees reiterate in this follow-up that the Commission is increasingly putting forward proposals for regulations instead of directives and that these developments are reducing the scope for adapting EU legislation to the constitutional conditions in the Member States. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has reviewed the proposals submitted to the national parliaments in 2017, which show that 59% of the proposals are draft regulations and 36% draft directives. At the same time, more than 40% of the proposals relate to amendments to existing regulations and directives. Overall, not too far-reaching conclusions can be drawn, but a trend can be discerned. There is every reason for the committee to continue to monitor developments. The exchange of information with other national parliaments is also an area highlighted by the committees and highlighted earlier by the KU in the annual report. In 2017, no proposal raised enough objections to achieve the yellow card threshold. Of the 713 proposals tested since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, only three have led to a yellow card. As has been mentioned, the Constitutional Committee has pointed out on several occasions the value of exchanging information with other national parliaments and that there is reason to consider how national parliaments can exchange information. The KU notes that most of the committees in their opinions point out that they have good experience of contacts with Parliament's representative in the EU institutions and that they benefit from the information that the representative can provide, for example on other parliaments' views on the compatibility of the proposals with the principle of subsidiarity. Several of the committees also reiterate in this follow-up that the benefits of IPEX are limited as there is rarely relevant information available during the preparation of a case and that the information is only available in the original language. The Constitutional Committee notes that there is still potential for improvement in terms of the information contained in IPEX. It should be included in connection with the decisions and in a language accessible to other national parliaments. When the committee met with Parliament's representative a short time ago, it stated that the criticism of IPEX is known and shared by most parliaments and that work is under way to develop the tool so that it becomes more effective and relevant to the national parliaments.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-18	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the question of the application of the principle of subsidiarity in Parliament is not something that fills the galleries with people, but that does not mean that it is unimportant. I think that the previous speaker gave an exemplary presentation of what this is really about. Allow me, therefore, to use my speaking time to do some reconnaissance and look at how we can work better, but also what other things we can do to make better use of the principle of subsidiarity at Union level. Of course, the trend of regulations being used to a greater extent than in the past must be kept under observation. This could create a change in the way it has been in the past, and a transfer of competence to the European Union could perhaps be seen. In these times of b rexit and other issues relating to the legitimacy of the European Union, it is all the more important for us to uphold the principle of subsidiarity. Things should be decided at the right level. That is why the tools described by the previous speaker are extremely important, although sometimes it may sound a bit bureaucratic and even boring, Mr President. But this is anything but boring, because it's very important. It matters when we decide where an issue should be decided and what conditions we, as a national Parliament, should have to take decisions on matters which are wholly or partly affected by decisions taken at European level. The national parliaments must create better conditions for establishing contacts, in order to be able to say together when going further than it was intended to be when transferring competences to the European Union. Having said that, Mr President, there are still things to do. There are many things that the European Union needs to tackle. But that does not mean that in each individual situation we should say no to everything. This is an important, responsible and delicate task which we, as a national Parliament, have taken very seriously. In this context, I would just like to note that the Swedish Parliament, the Parliament, has a much more systematic approach to dealing with the subsidiarity tests than many other national parliaments in the European Union. When we deal with such a report on the follow-up to our application of the principle of subsidiarity, this is important to remember. Even when we ask ourselves why so few yellow cards are issued, it is important to remember. If all national parliaments had had an equally systematic way of dealing with the subsidiarity tests, I am convinced that the reasoned opinions would have been many more. Here, as a national parliament, we have an important role vis-à-vis our colleagues in other countries in describing how we work. Sometimes we get questions or comments on the theme that we in Sweden object to a lot. Yes, Mr President, that is true. Over time, we have given more reasoned opinions than any other Parliament in the Union. I think it is precisely our systematised approach that is the reason for this. The few reasoned opinions which are, after all, given and which lead to the few yellow cards, but in reality not to any red cards so far, could become more and also more substantial and more effective if we had better cohesion. The various parliaments must work differently on this. Our solution, of course, cannot be applied in all countries, but I think we have a lot to contribute. That is why it was interesting to be able, on behalf of the Constitutional Committee, to go to Bregenz in Austria and attend a conference organised by the Austrian Presidency on the subject of subsidiarity. Unfortunately, Mr President, we can see that the Swedish delegation was one of the few national parliaments that attended the conference. This possibly underlines the importance we, as a national Parliament, attach to these issues: that things should be decided at the right level and by the right politicians with the right confidence from the electorate. It's extremely important. With this, I would like to give my support to the report.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-29	Mr President, I would like to According to the Riksdag Statute, the Constitutional Committee must monitor how the Riksdag applies the principle of subsidiarity and report annually to the House what has been observed. As in previous years, the committee is unanimous in its opinion, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the other Members for their constructive cooperation and for the fact that our views have been heard. I am the third person out on this matter, and it makes the possibility of revolutionary debauchery or surprising input is quite minimal. Nevertheless, I would like to say a few things that we Swedish democrats have noted. Basically, we are in favour of legislation being made at the lowest appropriate level. This is the very basis of our view of the sovereignty of the nation state. But this also means that there may be areas where cooperation with other Member States is well suited, not least if it benefits national security. The problem with the EU's subsidiarity principle and subsidiarity tests is that the system itself is designed to make it almost impossible to have effective objections to proposals being submitted. When the proposals come, it is almost too late to do something. Instead, we see that the EU is allowed to restrict national room for manoeuvre for each piece of legislation that comes into force. We are deeply opposed to this. In this year's follow-up, we note that several committees once again point out that the Commission prefers to submit proposals for regulations rather than proposals for directives. The meaning of this is that the room for manoeuvre to adapt EU legislation to the different constitutional conditions in each Member State is being reduced. We find it troubling. In its opinion, the Industry Committee has also called for an in-depth study on the extent to which legislative competence has been transferred from the Member States to the EU. This is of great interest to us, and we are in favour of such a study being carried out. We are also pleased that the other members of the committee share the same view. We would like to see such a survey started already this year. As regards the formal handling of the subsidiarity test, we are in favour of the position now being taken on delegated and implementing acts. Subsidiarity trials are not about the substance of the matter, but about where decisions should be taken appropriately. Then it is also important, we think, that we handle the process properly and are rigorous in our communication with the Commission. Several committees also point out that it is important for the EU institutions to respect the time limit for the verification of subsidiarity. We believe it is important that the information contained in the Commission's work programme, roadmaps and meeting plans should be designed in such a way as to facilitate cooperation with national parliaments. The Commission must set an example here. If you have a regulatory framework, it should be kept clear. We also note that some of the views expressed by the committees are exactly the same as they usually are. One such example is the IPEX database, which is still said to be of very limited use. The information is usually irrelevant, there are language difficulties, and not least the deadlines that run the same for all national parliaments. It may be difficult to enter the database and look at what the Hungarian Parliament has written in its language if you do not understand it. We maintain what we have been saying for years: this must develop and improve. We must point out more forcefully that IPEX, if it is to remain, must be more manageable so that it fulfils its purpose. Another point is that there is still a lack of contact with other national parliaments. This was also raised by the European Parliamentary Committee. It called for the dissemination of information to other national parliaments, not least at committee level. We hope that this can be developed during the term of office. In this context, it should also be said that, while criticising contacts with other national parliaments, it is in favour of the way in which our EU representative acts and carries out his work. Many people say that they are in constant contact with the EU representative and that he is also in contact with his counterparts from other national parliaments. So there is indirect cooperation between parliaments, but it is direct cooperation that we need to improve. In conclusion, with regard to the Commission's explanatory statement, we note some improvement, but in many cases the reasons are still far too brief, the committee feels. These are, moreover, comments that have been made over several years by several parliaments. The fact that the Commission has now announced that it intends to strengthen the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality is a good thing, but we are cautious in our hopes until we see concrete results on this issue. Having said that, we believe that the report can be added to the file.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-43	Mr President, I would like to The KU has an important role to play in the so-called 'control force'. And the power of control has a more important role to play in a difficult parliamentary situation, and it must have proved that we really have that autumn behind us. We therefore have an important task to ensure that the democratic system is properly managed. Perhaps most attention is paid to the Constitutional Committee for the review that we are doing in the spring of the government's performance of office after complaints by the members of parliament. But the not as attentive review as we usually do in the autumns, which KU10 is about, also plays a very important role in the control power. Here we examine how procedures and matters are handled, and here perhaps KU's role as a good accountant becomes even clearer. Of course, we point out and draw attention to the errors that we discover, but above all we provide guidance for the future on how matters should be handled. In this year's KU10, we have reviewed the composition of the government, the organisation of government work, the government protocols, certain administrative matters, referrals to the Law Council, the submission of proposals, the handling of documents and digital workspaces within working groups at the Government Office, the Government Office's procurement and EU consultations in the Riksdag. My committee colleagues Ida Karkiainen and Erik Ezelius will go through this more carefully, so I have the great privilege of giving some general views freely. As far as the legislative review is concerned, I can see that the Legislative Council has an extremely important role to play in maintaining the quality of legislation and preventing us from getting legislation that is contrary to the form of government or to other laws, which would result in a problematic situation. It is of great importance to maintain respect for the review of the law. We note that the report presented today has received some attention because we are a little harsh towards the government, regardless of its political location, in terms of the way in which the legislative reviews are handled. We want a tightening up on that point. As far as the proposal is concerned, there is a clear temptation for a government that is facing elections to present a cannonade of various proposals. This means that Parliament's treatment of the proposals during an election year can be very problematic. Here, for the future, we would urge all future governments to respect Parliament's work and to ensure that proposals are avoided at the end of a parliamentary term. Modern technology enables us to work differently from what our legislators before us have thought of. Innovation is what they call digital workspaces. It provides opportunities to cooperate digitally. You can pick up experts and work together on a digital workspace. This has created problems because people are easily picked up to work on the digital workspaces that are not part of the agency. That problem exists in several places. For the future, we want to be very clear about the appointment of experts and external staff involved in the work on digital workspaces at the agency in order for legislation to be maintained. Otherwise, it will be formally registered. There will be public documents and lots of such things as a result. These are some of the observations made by the KU.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-50	Mr President, I would like to I should like to start by apologising for speaking slightly longer than the speaking time I have given. Quite close to the debate, it has simply been decided that I should say a little more than was intended from the beginning. Mr President, I would like to We in the Constitutional Committee shall, according to the form of government, review the performance of the duties of the Ministers of State and the administration of government matters. At least once a year, we will explain what we have come up with. We divide this work into two parts: an autumn review and a spring review. Today's debate concerns the general autumn review. It is a review of certain general and administrative issues. In other words, this time we have not examined the individual duties of the ministers, but we have reviewed documents from the Government Office to see if the government has complied with laws and practices in its handling of various government matters. In the autumn following a general election, we usually examine and give an account of how the change of government itself has taken place, but since we have had a transitional government until last week, we have not been able to do so this time. That work has been moved forward, and we will come back to it later. We Moderates, like the Social Democrats, have divided the different parts of the autumn review between us, so many of us will be heard in this debate. The committee has reviewed government protocols from 2017. We have looked in particular at the sub-protocols belonging to the Ministry of Labour and to the Ministry of Industry. We have also reported in this report on the number of government cases for 2017. There is one important point that has been made in this work and which I would like to point out. This applies to the too short period of time that has all too often occurred from the time the government has taken a decision on an amended or a new law until the date of entry into force of the law. That time should be at least four weeks. In exceptional cases it may be two weeks. According to the form of government, laws and regulations must also be published and published as soon as possible following government decisions and after they have been printed. This is important in order for us as citizens to know which laws apply so that we can also comply with them. The committee has repeatedly pointed out – to all kinds of different government formations, to be said – that this is something that needs to be followed. Nevertheless, it has now emerged that a total of 35 regulations from the Ministry of Industry have only been published less than four weeks before their entry into force. The same applies to 26 regulations from the Ministry of Labour. In total, 16 regulations from these two departments have been published only less than two weeks before their entry into force. The committee therefore assumes that the necessary measures will be taken to improve this in the future. It can easily be said that, as in previous years, it will not be enough to do something similar to what has been done before, because then you will not get a different result either. There is therefore a need for something more to be done in this area in the future. In fact, it shouldn't be that difficult, especially since we have a solid and fairly long process of preparing laws, which means that you also have easier planning for things like this. Mr President, I would like to The committee has also examined the handling of documents and digital workspaces within certain working groups that have been formed and can be formed at the Government Office. In that review, there are a few things I would like to pay particular attention to and put my finger on. When creating a working group with people from other authorities within the Government Office, it is important to have a clear basis for this. There needs to be a decision stating what the group should do, what its mandate is and who is included in it. Otherwise, it will be very difficult to make the correct application of the principle of public access, because it may then be unclear whether a working group is internal or not, even though it contains people from different authorities. The big difference is that within internal working groups the different participants do not need to register documents that they exchange with each other. These documents are therefore not considered public documents, so this is very crucial. Another important observation we have made is that the Government Office sometimes seems to have made legal judgments that run counter to doctrine and practice in this area. This could have led to documents that should have become public. That is why we need to be able to explain in the future the legal assessment that has been made in each individual case so that we can also review and follow it up. Unfortunately, it has been difficult to do in this review. Swedish public administration in relation to many other countries is very well functioning and therefore retains legitimacy. This is partly due to transparency and to scrutiny to which the principle of public access contributes. In short, the principle of public access makes Swedish authorities better, which is why they should also be protected. I would therefore like to think that it would be particularly serious if the Government Office were to abandon the principle of public access or flinch it. The government governs the kingdom, and its office must, of course, lead by the best of examples. Unfortunately, there is room for improvement on this point. Unfortunately, the committee also has reason to point out, as many times before, that it is important to document meetings that are held within the Government Office with outsiders in all cases where something is made important for an ongoing matter. Otherwise it will be very difficult to review and decide afterwards, because we cannot know what has been said at the meetings if there is no documentation. That is precisely the point: if you do not do that, you cannot follow a matter, and then you have not complied with the principle of public access. We have also been able to note that in some parts of the Government Office, it has chosen to have public documents what it calls, rather than registered ones when it has them on a digital workspace. There isn't necessarily anything wrong in itself. You have the full right to choose between having documents arranged and having them registered. However, this requires two things: firstly, we must be consistent so that we do the same within the authorities and within the Government Offices. Secondly, it must be possible to ensure that documents that are organised and not registered are easily accessible to the public so that outsiders can have an overview of which documents are available. Otherwise, they can't ask them out. In committee, we wonder whether these two criteria are actually met but, of course, require that this is done and that this is something that is considered and taken into account on a daily basis when dealing with actions.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-68	Mr President, I would like to I do not intend to take up this House's time with details of each individual dossier in this year's report. It has already been done exemplaryly by others before me, and I suppose some will do so even after me. In addition, it is possible to read to it in the report. Instead, I intend to strike down here and there on matters as we encounter something particularly spectacular or remarkable. I can begin with the fact that we have a unanimous report. This year's KU10 lacks both specific opinions and reservations, which is of course pleasing. It is, however, less gratifying that this year the committee has had occasion to make some comments to the government on, for example, the government protocols and certain administrative matters, in which the committee has stated on several occasions in the past that the time between the announcement of a constitution and its entry into force should be at least four weeks and only in exceptional cases less than two weeks. This year's review shows that 35 and 26 regulations from the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Labour were announced less than four weeks before the entry into force and that 15 constitutions and 1 constitution were published less than two weeks before the entry into force. The committee now assumes that the government – in so far as it is in charge of the decision-making process – will take the necessary planning measures to keep the time between announcement and entry into force within the above-mentioned timeframes, including in the work on EU related constitutions. KU also annually reviews some or some categories of administrative matters. 2018 has included eleven cases concerning the application for land lease. In several cases, there have been lengthy processing times. In six of the cases, the duration of proceedings has been longer than two years. There have been no procedural measures, a long time has elapsed between communication and decision-making and the change of case handler in the same case, etc. The KU must once again stress that it is not acceptable to delay the handling of cases relating to the exercise of public authority against individuals due to a difficult staffing situation in the departments. This applies in particular to appeals. The committee would also like to stress the importance of progress on short-term proceedings. Mr President, I would like to The Government governs the country by, among other things, submitting proposals – proposals – to the Riksdag. KU has reviewed this proposal this year. The KU has gone through proposals for several election years back in time. The review shows that the Riksdag is dealing with a large and increasing number of proposals and that the vast majority of those treated the same spring as they were submitted have been submitted within a week before, on or after the stop date. This accumulation creates problems for Members of Parliament and for the work of the House. Accumulations on the scale that have been on and around stop dates for several of the years to which the review relates are deeply unsatisfactory. The review also draws attention to the extent to which the timing of the submission of proposals has been consistent with what has been stated in the so-called bill lists. The planning of parliamentary work is mainly based on the data in the bill lists, and it is therefore important, according to the committee, that what is reported in them is realistic and monitored as far as possible. It is important that information about delayed proposals that are collected monthly within the Government Office also comes to the attention of the Riksdag. Even in cases where the committees concerned have agreed to deal with some late proposals before the summer recess, such changes, according to the committee, have often had an impact on the overall situation in Parliament. The Government Office reports in the review various measures to improve the planning of the proposal work, including the development of an IT-based process support that is intended to contribute to quality-assured timetables where all elements of time are set. The KU now assumes that this will happen. Finally, the KU reiterates, with emphasis, the importance of the dissemination of the proposal and the limitation of post-proposition delivery to necessary cases. Mr. Alman! From what can possibly be seen as routine matters, I turn to something that requires a more delicate process, namely Council of Law referrals. The Law Council consists of current or former judges from the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. The Legislative Council shall review and express its views on legislative proposals upon request from the Government or a parliamentary committee. The KU has examined the government's referrals to the Swedish Law Council, possibly for reasons that have been suggested. For the most part, the Council's views and proposals have been accepted by the government. In those proposals where the government has not complied with the Law Council, the government has generally argued for its position. The committee is of the opinion that this is important for the quality of the legislative work. The review further shows that in legislative cases where substantial changes have been made due to the comments and proposals of the Swedish Law Council, the Government has only exceptionally referred the revised legislative proposals back to the Swedish Law Council. The committee recalls that there may be reason to consider whether the Council's views should be collected on revised legislative proposals. In just under 15 per cent of the proposals where the Law Council has had views and proposals, all or part of the legislative proposals have been rejected or seriously questioned. This proportion has varied slightly during the period studied, and there has been a slight increase in subsequent national meetings. The committee stresses that, in general, it is important that the central role of the Legislative Council in legislative work is not eroded, and we take seriously an increase in the number of proposals with legislative proposals in which the Legislative Council rejected or seriously questioned the legislative proposals or parts of them. However, it can be noted that there have been relatively few proposals with legislative proposals that were rejected or seriously challenged by the Law Council, and in more than half of the cases the Government has chosen to comply mainly or in part with the Council's views and proposals. It is understandable that the government is focusing on quality in legislative work, but that being said, I would like to say that individual legislative proposals can also have major and far-reaching consequences. One example is the so-called High School Act, which received well-deserved criticism of the Law Council and was finally tried in court. This, Mr President, seems to me to be the most urgent points of this year's report. I finish with something about the common digital workspaces. I understand that our representatives in the Constitutional Committee have worked a great deal on the issue of precisely such forms of work and the publicity of documents. The KU stresses the importance of organising such work spaces so that the correct application of the principle of public access can be made. With this reminder, we now assume that the issue can rest for the time being and that no more ambiguities and grey areas will emerge in the future. With this I thank you for the 2018 work. I now look forward to the reports and challenges brought about by the general work and the spring review.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-86	Mr President, I would like to As several Members have already explained, we are therefore dealing with what is commonly called the autumn review of the KU, i.e. the review of the administration of government matters – or, in short, procedures and working methods in the Government Office. This is actually what it is about: to see how the government treats matters and that it does so in a way that is consistent with the demands made. Of course, it is not possible for the KU to follow up everything, but it becomes impact here and there in the system. Often we look at things that have been noticed in connection with something else when we have reviewed the ministry of the ministers. I will comment on three of the areas that the committee has examined. I shall begin with the proposal, which has already been mentioned. The committee has pointed out several times before that it is difficult for Parliament to carry out its work if the government makes very many legislative proposals over a short period of time. Nevertheless, the number of proposals submitted in the spring, to be dealt with before the summer break and often to come into force as a new law on 1 July, has increased during the last term of office. This poses major problems for the whole process. The committee offices will deal with many proposals in a short time, and there will be problems for the parties – especially the smaller ones – who can get a large amount of proposals to read in a very short time. You should sit down and assess if it is something you should exercise about and in that case what exercise should be submitted during a period where you consider 40 proposals in parallel. It's not a reasonable order. There will also be many proposals after the so-called stop date in the spring, which the government wants to be processed before the summer break. The fact that both the Riksdag and the Government have reasonable opportunities to do their work is important; it is about the whole legislative process being able to work. It must be possible for the government to spread the proposals better over the year. Of course, there may be a need to leave proposals late, and there may also be a need to leave proposals that need to be dealt with very quickly. We know this, and precisely because we know it, it is important that what can be planned should not be lumped together. We will always get things that come up and have to be handled quickly. Therefore, what can actually be put into planes should also be put into planes – and the plan should be followed. It is not okay that the government's lack of planning means that the parliament cannot carry out its work reasonably. I turn to the question of so-called digital workspaces, which many have already talked about. It is primarily about the handling of documents and record keeping, and one can well sum up the committee's conclusion that it does not matter if the working group uses a digital workspace or changes paper and documents in other ways – it is nevertheless the case that documents that are considered to be public should be handled in such a way that the public can find them. Management should also be consistent. One issue that the committee has looked at is whether external authorities have had access to digital workspaces held by working groups in the Government Office, and we have not seen that that is the way it is. However, as far as the working groups' assessment of correspondence is concerned, we have noted that there are things which should be public documents but which are not. They have not been judged as such. Several working groups have not considered responses received from public authorities, with comments on drafts sent, to be public documents. If it is to be possible to follow the handling of the cases and subsequently review how the cases have been prepared, comments from the authorities must be found in the handling inside the Government Office. It is precisely the possibility of following the views of the authorities and of being able to control the preparation of matters that we in the committee have pointed out many times. This year we see that the problem can also exist in relation to the so-called EU Councils. So there is something called EU advice. It is a fairly new phenomenon, where the government meets different people and representatives of organisations and authorities to acquire additional knowledge and get input and views. It is great that the government wants to deepen and broaden its knowledge, and it has been said that this should be a complement to the normal consultation procedure. But then it is very important that we also remember to document the views that come in, so that it is actually possible – not least for us in the KU – to follow afterwards how a case has been prepared and what comments have been received during the course of the matter.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-97	Mr President, I would like to We are not presenting the KU10 report to each other – we have been working on it all autumn – but this is for our colleagues and party colleagues in the other committees and for the public who are following it online, who are reading it about shorter or longer time or who are currently following it on live television. It may seem quite technical and uninteresting, but I would say that this is far from correct. The KU has worked on this for a long time; it started early this summer when the office on our mission began to work on this review. I would therefore like to add it to the file and publicly express my thanks to the Registry for all the work that has taken place since this summer and until today. Without you, we would not have been able to do this work. It is a work that is repeated year after year and decade after decade, so that we can follow developments at, for example, the Government Office. The basis on which the Constitutional Committee carries out this review goes back to the form of government, Chapter 13. Section 1. This is one of our constitutions, which we call the Constitution and which has given its name to the Constitutional Committee. It states that the Constitutional Committee shall review the performance of the duties of the Ministers of State and the handling of government matters. It is not something we choose to do, but it is something that the form of government imposes on us. This shall be done at least once a year. We have an autumn review when we look at the administrative, horizontal and institutional issues as well as a review in the spring when we look at the duties of individual ministers. So this is the autumn review. We do some general, administratively oriented audits and report here – of course in a very brief way – what we have seen that needs to be changed. We have looked at the composition of the government and the organisation of government work. We have looked at government protocols from 2017, in particular protocols from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Labour. We have examined certain administrative matters – within the Ministry of Industry, it has intended applications for land leases that have been appealed to the Government and that have been handled by the Ministry of Industry. Here, the processing times in several cases have been too long, as we also point out. That's not acceptable. We have reviewed the proposal and seen that the vast majority of the proposals that are treated the same spring have been submitted within a week before, on or after the so-called stop date. It is not reasonable; we cannot have it. The accumulation on the scale that has been on and around stop dates for several of the years under review is deeply unsatisfactory. As you have heard from one after another of the Members who have been in the speaker's seat and have presented us with complete agreement. The KU works with the review in such a way that we strive for total unity. In some cases there has been some specific opinion. There has been some reservation in connection with audits, as most recently from the last parliamentary term. On the whole, however, we are essentially in complete agreement, and we will continue to manage and refine that heritage. The handling of documents and digital workspaces has been reported earlier by other members. We cannot, as we thought when we started, say that there is a basis for the assessment that external authorities have had access to digital workspaces that exist in working groups in the Government Office. There is no such basis. We have seen that the work of such working groups is regarded as internal work within the Government Office and that documents exchanged between the members of the working group are not considered public documents. That is why the KU states that it is important that there is a clear basis for considering the working group as internal and therefore part of the Government Office, not least in order to enable the correct application of the principle of public access. We also point out that there should be relevant decisions or appointments that clarify the composition of an internal working group that includes persons from authorities other than the Government Office. Furthermore, we have looked at the Government Office's procurement. The review reveals shortcomings in the documentation. Oral offers have been obtained, but they have not been documented. Therefore, KU inculcates the importance of compliance with the documentation requirements of the Procurement Act. We have also looked at the EU's advice. The KU considers that the process of developing Swedish positions on EU issues in a way that, as far as possible, corresponds to the statutory requirements of the government form of preparation is essential. The EU Councils are not doing this on their own. It is therefore important that they are presented as part of – but not as a whole – the preparation, as the Constitution requires. The most important thing we have dealt with – if I should make a weighting of this – is the question of referrals to the Law Council. That is why I will deal with this last time. The review has shown that in just under two thirds of the cases, the Law Council has submitted comments and proposals for referrals from the Government. For the most part, these views and proposals have actually been accepted by the government – so far everything is fine. In those proposals where the government has not followed the Law Council, the government has generally argued for its position, which is good, but it has not always sent a new referral to the Law Council. The review further shows that the Government has only exceptionally referred the revised legislative proposals to the Legislative Council in legislative matters where substantial changes have been made as a result of the comments and proposals of the Legislative Council. Why is this important to point out? On the one hand, each government wants to get its policies and proposals through to the Riksdag as quickly, painless and straightforward as possible – it is understandable. On the other hand, the legal texts and preparatory work on laws must be of such quality that our courts and law enforcement authorities can work with them, otherwise there will be problems in the next stage. For this reason, the committee writes as follows:- The committee recalls that sometimes in legislative matters where the Government has made substantial changes to a legislative proposal as a result of the comments of the Legislative Council, there may be reason to consider whether the views of the Legislative Council should also be sought on the revised legislative proposal. ..................................................... That is what we have said today. That is what we agree on – a recommendation. You could go on with this thought. Personally, as a Christian Democrat, I think that this is an interesting and important idea in order to achieve a better quality. How to move forward will tell the future. I believe that this is the most important of the observations we have made. We can therefore add the KU10 Review of the Ministry's duties and the handling of government matters to the documents. We do not vote on it but leave it to the House.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-117	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to start by expressing my thanks for a very thorough examination and a thorough examination, particularly to all the staff of the Office. Mr President, I would like to The goal set by the Swedish Parliament is very ambitious: our goal is for Sweden to be the best in the world to use the possibilities of digitalisation. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to With my speech, I would like to draw attention to precisely the part dealing with the handling of documents and digital workspaces, which a number of speakers have already touched upon, because it is precisely this part that is perhaps one of the essences of our Swedish governance. In the cases that Parliament has set itself, there is one issue that the government seems to have somewhat neglected when it comes to its internal work – one can interpret it that way. Not anywhere in the government's ambitious digitalisation strategy is the principle of publicity mentioned. These two parts belong together, and that is what I want to point out. The principle of public access has existed in Sweden since 1766 and, as I said, is governed by the Constitution. Chapter 2 of the Freedom of the Press Regulation. Paragraph 1 states that every Swedish citizen must have the right to access public documents in order to promote a free exchange of views and comprehensive information. This is a fundamental pillar of Swedish democracy. The term ‘public document' means any document, printed or electronic, which is stored with an authority and which has been received from outside or drawn up within the authority. A document is stored if the Authority has access to the information technically or practically. A document is drawn up by being dispatched to someone outside the authority, and outside the authority, independent branches of activity within the same authority are also included. If the document is not to be processed, it will become general if it remains in the case when it has been completed. A document which is not processed and which does not belong to a case will become public once it has been completed. There are certain specific rules concerning, for example, notes in a diarium or some form of continuous chronological list of public documents, although the list has not been finalised. Documents are drafts if they are created while an authority prepares a decision on a case and does not, as a rule, become general. If such material is archived or sent to another authority, it will immediately become a public document. Why, Mr President, do I stand and burp this rather technical and a little messy reasoning? Because this is a cornerstone of what makes Government Sweden open, transparent and understandable to every Swedish citizen – what is stated in the Constitution's 2nd chapter. Section 1 of the Freedom of the Press Regulation. This is what it is all about. It is important for an open and transparent society, and it is important, Mr President, for our democracy. In the review of the handling of documents and digital workspaces within certain working groups in the Government Office, the committee notes that what has emerged does not provide the basis for the assessment that external authorities have had access to digital workspaces that exist in working groups in the Government Office. But working groups with different compositions within the Government Office use these workspaces. These are, on the one hand, working groups which sometimes consist of only officials from one or more departments and, on the other hand, working groups which also include representatives of one or more external authorities or other stakeholders. The work of these working groups is regarded by the Government as an internal work within the Government Office, and documents exchanged between the members of the working groups are not considered public documents. It is here, Mr President, that doubts arise. Here, at least theoretically, we can consider whether the 2nd chapter of the Freedom of the Press Regulation is not to be considered. actually kicks in and becomes a reality. It is important, in the Committee's view, that there should be a clear basis for considering the working group as just internal and therefore part of the Government Office, not least in order to enable the correct application of the principle of public access. The committee considers it appropriate to stress that there should be consistently relevant decisions or suchlike to clarify the composition of a working group comprising persons from authorities other than the Government Office. This is where the doubts arise. The committee notes, and it is important to point out, that it is actually the same thing to press a button and send digital documents between them as shoveling paper between them. Accuracy is of the utmost importance in the whole construction of the Freedom of the Press Regulation. The committee also draws attention to the fact that the replies received from the authorities to the Government Office with comments on sent-out intermediate products have not been considered as public documents. The committee points to the interpretation that has been made in doctrine and practice and assumes that, in each case, careful consideration is made from the point of view of freedom of the press in this regard, but we cannot find it happening. This is precisely what I would like to point out. It is the committee's view that these considerations should continue to be carried out by the Government Office in each individual case. It is an important part of our democracy that this is done properly. Of course, I pay tribute to the possibilities of digitalisation and think that we should continue to develop the digital ways of working to minimise paper use. But then we must behave in terms of freedom of expression, the principle of public access and freedom of the press.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-129	Mr President, I would like to As my colleagues have mentioned before, this is an annual review of the state administration on the basis of specific themes that we, together in the committee, are determined to examine. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank our office, which has worked so well to produce this basis, so that we have been able to make the political assessment of this. There are many interesting elements in our annual report concerning the examination of the duties of the Ministers of State and the handling of government affairs. I will focus in particular on three parts: the government protocols, referrals to the Law Council and the proposal's resignation. After all, the Law Council is an advisory body that examines the legislative proposals presented by the Government. The review of the law council is incredibly important and a central part of maintaining the quality of our legislative work. In about 15 percent of the proposals in which the Swedish Law Council had views and proposals, all or part of the legislative proposals have been rejected or questioned. This proportion has varied slightly during the period studied, and there has been a slight increase in subsequent national meetings. But we should remember that in the vast majority of cases the Law Council does not have fundamental objections to the proposals put forward by the government. Of course, the Council's opinions weigh heavily, even if it is only an advisory body. Sometimes, however, the government makes a different assessment than the Law Council, which has taken place regardless of the color of the government. What, then, can be the reason why the government does not always do what the Law Council thinks? In particular, there may be different assessments of the need for reform or the consequences of a legislative proposal. However, it is important that the Government always justifies in its proposal why the proposal does not follow the Council's views. The committee would like to continue to stress the importance of this. The justifications must be clearly stated. From the committee's side, we send that when the government makes changes to a bill, it should be carefully considered if the Law Council is not to be involved once more to review the changes that have been made. It is done in some cases but not in all. We also note that the government in its response to us writes that they are constantly working to improve the quality of the legislative process, and this is, of course, something that the committee welcomes. Mr President, I would like to As far as government protocols are concerned, we have looked at protocols and memos within the Ministry of Enterprise and Labour. Why we examine these comes from Chapter 8. Paragraph 19 of the Government Act, which states that a determined law must be issued by the Government as soon as possible. The term ‘issue' means the government decision by which the Constitution takes its final form. Furthermore, laws and regulations must be made public as soon as possible. It is important to distinguish between issuing and proclaiming: Announcement means the day the constitution comes out of the pressure. As my colleagues have previously mentioned, it is claimed that the time between the announcement and the entry into force of the law shall be at least four weeks and only in exceptional cases less than two weeks. As has been explained in the past, a number of regulations from the Ministry of Industry and Labour have not followed this system. This applies, among other things, to regulations relating to EU links. However, the Commission notes that the constitutions have not contained any provisions imposing charges on individuals and assumes that the government, in so far as it has jurisdiction over the decision-making process, will take the necessary measures to keep time. This is incredibly important to us. As far as the proposal is concerned, this review is central to us members of Parliament and to the work of the Riksdag. We note that the government, no matter which one, has had an accumulation of proposals at a stop date. This causes an uneven workload for us in Parliament but also in the government, and that is of course not good. We note that the government feels the same and is working on, among other things, introducing an IT-based process support. We from the KU will follow this with great interest. The Constitutional Committee should be a good auditor who gives constructive criticism and is forward-looking, and it is our hope that the conclusions of this review will be taken into account and thus lead to a better and more effective government administration.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-139	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to talk today about the Law Council and the bill delivery. I should like to begin by apologising for the fact that I will probably suspend my registered speaking time. Mr President, I would like to For a long time in Sweden, certain legislative proposals have been subject to special scrutiny before being submitted to Parliament. This examination took a firmer form in the form of the 1809 government and was then placed in the Supreme Court. In connection with the establishment of the Regeringsrätten, now called the Supreme Administrative Court, in 1909 the review was transferred to a special body, namely the Law Council, which was to consist of members from both the then Supreme Administrative Court and the Supreme Court. Since the 1809 form of government, the regulation of what we today call the Law Council has varied. Sometimes the review of the Law Council has been compulsory, and sometimes it has been optional, that is to say voluntary. The regulation currently in force for the Legislative Council entered into force on 1 January 2011. The scope of the Legislative Council's review is determined by a concrete list in the form of government of the types of laws that are covered. The review is now again mandatory for the areas listed, unless the review of the Law Council would be irrelevant because of the nature of the issue or delay the treatment of the legislative issue so significantly that it arises. Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has repeatedly examined the government's referrals to the Law Council. The last time was autumn 2013. The current review has looked at four national meetings from two different governments – two national meetings from the alliance government and two national meetings from the former S-MP government. The review has raised a number of issues, and I would like to mention some of them here. One of the issues that the Constitutional Committee has looked at is the nature of the views expressed by the Legislative Council, if they have expressed their views. These may include points of view, such as the legal and technical nature of the proposals, comments on their relation to the constitutions and the legal order in general, and comments on whether the proposals have been designed in such a way that the laws can be adopted in the light of the objectives set out. With regard to the latter point, sometimes the limit of what is an inappropriate proposal and what is a questionable but politically motivated solution can be difficult to draw. At the same time, it is important that the Law Council does not make any political judgments. Another issue examined by the Constitutional Committee is the extent to which the Legislative Council rejected or seriously questioned the implementation of the Government's legislative proposals or parts thereof. We have not examined the individual legislative referrals, but a well-known example in this area has been the so-called upper secondary amnesty. In that referral, the Legislative Council stated that the limit has been reached on what is acceptable in terms of how legislation can be drafted, and they rejected the proposal. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has looked at whether this type of view has increased. And there has been a slight increase. At the first Parliamentary Session that was reviewed, the proportion of rejected or otherwise contested legislative proposals was 11 per cent, at the second Parliamentary Session it was 13 per cent, at the third Parliamentary Session it was 15 per cent and at the fourth and last Parliamentary Session of the Constitutional Committee it was 18 per cent. There has thus been a slight increase in the views of the Law Council where they reject or seriously question the government's legislative proposals. Firstly, the Constitutional Committee would like to emphasise in general terms that it is urgent that the central role of the Legislative Council in the legislative work should not be eroded. Secondly, the Constitutional Committee takes seriously an increase in the number of proposals in which the Legislative Council rejected or seriously questioned the legislative proposals. In conclusion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would like to stress that legislation of a sufficiently high quality is a prerequisite for ensuring predictability and thus legal certainty for individuals. It is primarily the Government that takes the initiative and is responsible for preparing proposals for new legislation. The government therefore has a significant responsibility in maintaining good quality legislation. In the committee's view, the Council's review plays a particular role in meeting the interests of legal certainty and the need for consistency, consistency and clarity. In addition, the Council's views and proposals, although the rules of the Legislative Council review do not cover all legislative matters, can give a good picture of the quality of the Government's legislative proposals. The review carried out by the Constitutional Committee of the Government's legislative referrals is therefore an important follow-up to the quality of our legislative texts, for which we Members are ultimately responsible when they are voted through. Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has also examined the proposal, namely the time when the government submits proposals to the Riksdag. The purpose of the review has been to investigate whether the proposal is made in a way that allows the Riksdag to plan and carry out its work effectively. According to the Riksdag Act, the Riksdag decides on a proposal from the Speaker when proposals must be submitted at the latest during the current Parliamentary Session. The deadline for submitting nominations is usually set at around 20 March, but nothing prevents the Riksdag from changing its decision on the nomination period, for example in connection with a prolonged government crisis. The Parliamentary Order enables the Government to exceed the fixed nomination period if there are exceptional reasons. What is particularly important is neither exemplified nor stated, but when the government makes use of this exemption rule, according to the Proposition Manual, they must state the particular reasons and justify it. We can see in our review that the number of proposals that have been submitted after the stop time has increased. To name a few examples, there were 11 after the stop time in 2002, and in 2018 it was 73. Mr President, I would like to The committee considers that there is a great deal of dissatisfaction on the scale and around the stopping date for several of the years under review. Looking at the overall picture of the increasing number of proposals that have been submitted after the end of the deadline and yet been dealt with before the summer recess, the committee wonders to what extent there have indeed been such exceptional reasons and thus the need for rapid treatment, as the parliamentary order states. In cases where, according to the P roposition manual, the government has to account for exceptional reasons to exceed the stopping time, this has not been done. The committee would therefore like to recall its regular statement that, where appropriate, the Government should state in the bill the particular reasons which the Government considered to be the basis for leaving a proposal after the standstill period. That is why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs wishes to emphasise the importance of spreading the proposal. This is important for the parliament to be able to carry out its role effectively as the main representative of the people.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-155	Mr President, I would like to I would like to comment on a couple of parts of the report in the debate on the examination of the duties of government ministers and the handling of government matters. First of all, I would like to mention Section 6 on the handling of documents and digital workspaces within certain working groups in the Government Office, which several speakers have already touched upon. The origins of the review come from spring 2018, when the Constitutional Committee examined, among other things, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' handling of documents in connection with the Security Council campaign. In conclusion, the committee took note of what had emerged from the review of the principle of public access and the existence of inter-agency working groups within the Government Office, and it was found that these issues should be given further attention in the future. The review has found that the use of digital workspaces is not an isolated phenomenon but can be located in several parts of the Government Office. What has emerged also does not provide evidence for the assessment that third-party authorities have had access to digital workspaces held by the working groups in the Government Office. As my party colleague Hans Ekström mentioned earlier, new technology also creates new opportunities for new forms of collaboration, which of course should be seen as welcome for effective and effective work within the framework of policy work. On the other hand, it is of the utmost importance that new working methods are not in conflict with the acquis but that they are examined and tested from a constitutional perspective. The criticism that is being made concerns decisions that clarify the composition of the internal working group, which includes persons from authorities other than the Government Office, the handling of so-called intermediate products, documentation obligations and more. Once again, effective management should of course be encouraged to develop working methods. And technology development offers great opportunities here, but never at the expense of the principle of public access or other elements of our constitutions. Finally, the committee has also examined the use of so-called EU Councils by the government, as Mia Sydow Mölleby also mentioned in her speech. The advice has come into being as a new working method to leverage expertise on substantive issues within civil society and from other societal actors and aims to provide the government with a broader basis for its assessments. However, the committee points to the importance that the use of EU advice does not lead to non-implementation of the usual forms of preparation, such as referrals. In the Committee's view, to the extent that what emerges from the EU Councils is the basis for further preparation of matters, it is equally important to document what emerges from the EU Councils as it is to document what emerges from other forms of preparation. It is important for traceability and transparency, so that the Constitutional Committee and others can examine a matter and its preparation.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-162	Mr President, I would like to The Autumn Review 2018 has many similarities with previous years' reviews in terms of results. However, before taking any examples, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the committee for good and constructive discussions. However, I would like to extend my most sincere thanks to the Constitutional Committee's office and officials of a professional, diligent and auditive undertaking. Mr President, I would like to Being the last speaker on a matter may, as someone said earlier, mean a lot of repetition. I'm probably not going to deliver any world-shattering breakthroughs in this autumn's review, but I'm going to give it a try. Mr President, I would like to I would like to focus particularly on three dossiers and start with certain administrative matters. This year's examination of administrative cases concerns appeals against applications for land leases. The cases have been handled in the Ministry of Enterprise. Like many previous audits, this review shows that the duration of proceedings is far too long. It is not legally secure and acceptable when individual citizens suffer because the staffing situation is not satisfactory in the relevant authority. This applies in particular to land cases dealing with green industries, which need rapid decisions in order to develop their activities. These are activities that often struggle hard with profitability and therefore should not suffer from inadequate government work. Mr President, I would like to The committee would like to stress once again the important work of shortening processing times, including for individuals who may suffer financially and with personal suffering. However, it is also necessary to shorten the processing times so that the administrative balances do not become too large and create duplication of work. These are results that the committee has pointed out several times before. That is why the committee hopes that this will now become a reality. Mr President, I would like to I shall then refer to the Government's procurements. The main aim of procurement legislation is to ensure that procurement is conducted on a commercial basis, so that public authorities make the best use of public funds. This benefits from competition in the market. Previous reviews of government procurements have revealed recurrent shortcomings in documentation. The committee has pointed out this and the problem that it poses for outsiders to be able to examine the procedure but also to demonstrate the reliability of how public funds are handled. Mr President, I would like to The committee would therefore like to point out that the autumn review reveals similar shortcomings in the documentation and wishes to emphasise the importance of compliance with the documentation requirements of the Procurement Act. The documentation shall justify the decision and the reasons for the choice of a particular procurement procedure. The committee also stresses that public documents in procurement matters are registered in accordance with the Publicity and Confidentiality Act. The documentation shall also lead to increased transparency in the use of public funds. The committee would like to stress the importance of following the practice of reporting direct procurement over a price base to the central purchasing function. The Procurement Act requires the Authority to decide on guidelines for direct procurement. This is something that the committee would also like to recall, as it has failed at some point. Mr President, I would like to It is important that the committee's criticism should guide government procurements, as people's public funds should never be used in a careless or careless way. Contracts must not be arbitrarily handled because of any personal sensations within the department concerned, but should always be carried out in a quality-proof manner with good documentation enabling the procedure to be reviewed afterwards. This will increase transparency and confidence in public procurement. Finally, I will say a few words about the use of the EU's advice. An EU Council should primarily be used to deepen and broaden the government's knowledge and perspectives on substantive issues. They are also an important source of greater insight into and improvement of the quality of government support. The committee stresses, however, that it is important that EU Councils should not replace ordinary consultation procedures or lead to non-implementation of the usual forms of preparation. Instead, the EU Councils will help to develop positions on EU issues that respond to the required preparation requirements laid down in the government form. Mr President, I would like to The committee would also like to point out here the importance of setting good and thorough documentation requirements in order to make it easier to carry out a subsequent check and review. It is also important to distinguish and document what emerges from the advice and what has emerged from other forms of preparation. Finally, the committee would like to point out that the memos taken at EU Councils and forwarded to the EU institutions should make it clear that they do not express a Swedish position.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-173	Mr President, I would like to The Ombudsman for Justice is an important institution in Sweden. The JO, as it is also called, examines that the authorities work according to the laws and rules that govern their work. This applies, in particular, to laws concerning the rights and obligations of individuals in relation to the general public. JO office is part of the constitutional protection of the individual's fundamental rights and freedoms. It is our guarantee, that all citizens, that the state and the public do not abuse in the exercise of their authority and that all people are treated properly. It is an important part of our democracy – a kind of people's guardian. Every year the JO submits an official report – the lunta I have in hand – where they report reports that have come in and reviews as they have done. We in committee have heard the observations of the Parliamentary Ombudsmen both at an open session and at a closed session. On behalf of the committee, we would like to take this opportunity to thank the Ombudsman for the work he has done and one, once again, a solid report on the state of affairs. Mr President, I would like to There are those who might think this is a dry story. It is not; both I and my colleagues can testify to that. In fact, the official report reveals stories where the principles of the rule of law have broken in one way or another. I am not going to go into individual cases, but just horizontally mention a few things. It is about how people in detention have not received proper medical supervision and, in the worst cases, also died as a result. It is a matter of not giving out public documents on time. It is a question of searching for the identity of the person requesting public documents and thus restricting the right to remain anonymous. It is a matter of the courts not having tried a conflict of interest. These are restrictions on visits by family members whose relatives are cared for in various hospital establishments. These are shortcomings of the Prison Service in terms of inmates in prisons with accompanying children and pregnant prisoners. It is a matter of shortcomings in the Swedish Enforcement Authority's management of funds. It is a question of restrictions on freedom of expression. It's about authorities that don't have order in their record keeping. These are shortcomings of the Police Authority with regard to the principle of proportionality, i.e. the use of reasonable coercive measures proportionate to, for example, the age of the person in charge. These are shortcomings in documentation, the handling of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the handling of the Migration Agency. It is about the handling of LSS cases and wrong family home placements. It is a matter of social services not taking into account the children's perspective. It is about wrongful detentions and unlawful camera surveillance – and so on. These were just a few areas, so you understand that there are many cases in this lunta. Many of the cases described in the official report have also been the subject of media coverage and reporting that we have of course followed in the Riksdag. Mr President, I would like to I therefore do not think it unreasonable that everyone who works in the public sphere should at least look at the official report. We would really like to emphasise the importance of those who work in the public sphere, in authorities and institutions, constantly working on questions of treatment and fundamental human rights. JO also has an important function in seeing shortcomings in laws and regulations. During the financial year, nine requests for legislative changes have been made to the Government Office. It has also been flagged for a total of 48 decisions that the Government Office needs to draw attention to. Mr President, I would like to It is important to note that the JO is an extraordinary supervisory authority. It is therefore important that regular supervisory authorities conduct their supervision well. We note in committee that the JO points out that the handling of complaints and the possibility of complaining to the individual has been severely restricted. This is important for us to follow, because we naturally want regular supervision to work properly and for people in the regular authorities to make complaint handling work well. This is something we intend to follow. The JO points out, in particular, that the ability of individuals to obtain an independent assessment in the field of health has deteriorated significantly. This, too, is an area that we shall follow with great interest. Mr President, I would like to The committee has also initiated a broader review of the JO office since it has been over 30 years since an investigation was carried out. There are challenges that we need to address, including planned boundaries and resource allocation. Mr President, I would like to The JO office was established in the revolution year 1809, when it was stipulated in the new constitution that the Riksdag should appoint a man of law and excellent integrity known as its representative to supervise that judges and officials lived according to the laws. The Swedes had had experience of both autocracy and party rule but did not want to regain either. We don't want that now either. Let us therefore protect and care for the Ombudsman as an institution for many, many more years! I request that the statement be added to the file.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-187	Mr President, I would like to Humanity in the place on earth that we call Sweden has chosen to coordinate by forming the society we have and the state that leads the society we have. Through our democracy, we give very large powers to the state and its institutions and also to municipalities and county councils – very far-reaching powers. We can be deprived of our freedom. We put our education in the hands of the public. We put our health in the hands of the public. It is therefore very far-reaching powers and a very heavy responsibility that we place on the public side. It is therefore crucial for the legitimacy of the system that we have institutions with the task of ensuring that this is done in a fair, secure and legally secure manner where our rights and freedoms are protected. The individual, weak individual, must have his or her rights intact against the much stronger state. And it is not just about the security of the individual in the individual case; it is about the security of all those who have not been involved in an individual case and about confidence in the public. In these times of alternative facts and perceptions that may not always be based on knowledge, confidence in the general is important to safeguard. That is why we in Sweden can be proud that we have the office of Justice Ombudsman that we have and that we have such a proud history in this regard. The office and work of the Ombudsmen of Justice are important from a further perspective, for example as feedback to the authorities we have. As the previous speaker has said, it is important to take the time to familiarise yourself with the Ombudsman's descriptions of the cases they have gone through and what comments they have to offer. I would like to draw the attention of the House a little extra attention to a kind of dossier which I think is particularly important. It's a matter of detention. In Sweden we have received criticism both from international institutions and from the Ombudsman for Justice for how we handle detentions and detention periods. This applies in particular to the arrest of minors. This is something that I think we need to continue to discuss in a broad way, cross-blocking. What's right, and what's right? This is a very far-reaching authority that we in Swedish society have handed over to the Police Authority, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary and the Criminal Service to handle in different ways. It is important that the individual's position, rights and, above all, dignity be safeguarded in this context. The Ombudsmen of Justice criticise, and rightly so, authorities which take far too long in their proceedings. With regard to this, it is important to have your back free as an ombudsman of justice, and I therefore find it particularly satisfying to see that the processing times of our Ombudsmen's cases have been reduced and that they meet the set cases for processing times that they have set for themselves. It will be a little hollow, so to speak, to criticise an authority for slow processing time if the handling of the case where criticism is given has taken a very long time. The structure of the activities of the Ombudsmen shall be developed. It is a two-hundred-year operation that we have to manage. It is therefore important to make sure that it is relevant to the present day all the time. It was 30 years ago, and a united committee says it is time to do another review to see what we can do better in an already well-developed and good business. How can the position of the individual, the weak individual against the state be protected in an even clearer way, and how can we, as a society, benefit from the knowledge and understanding that the office of the Ombudsmen also teaches us? Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal to add the report to the document.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-195	Mr President, I would like to In the official report of the Ombudsmen, we see an increase in the flow of cases, and it is primarily the examination of complaints that uses most of the JO's processing resources. It also states that fewer cases of initiative and inspection were closed in the supervisory departments than in the previous year. It is further argued that although more cases were settled than in previous years, the balance increased due to the inflow of cases and reached 1 397 at the end of the year. This is an increase that will probably continue in the light of social developments. It is stated in the official report that in order to be able to face the large flow of cases in recent years, the JO has developed its procedures and working methods. This is very positive. In order to respond further to the challenges of the future in which the importance of compliance with the principles of Swedish administrative law and the rule of law is respected, we are pleased that all members of the committee now share our view that there should be a review of the JO office. We would like to stress the importance of this announced review now actually taking place, especially when the previous review took place more than 30 years ago. We insist that such a review should take place in a parliamentary committee. An important issue for such a committee is, in addition to carrying out a general review, to look at how the Riksdag's role as head of the JO functions and can be developed. We also wish to see an increase in the ambition of the Riksdag to encourage the Parliamentary Ombudsmen to increase the number of inspections, as they are currently decreasing due to the fact that the examination of complaints is increasingly taking advantage of the resources of the Parliamentary Ombudsmen. The Swedish Democrats have therefore allocated funds for such inspections in their budget for 2018 and 2019. I have also taken on this brick that I hold in my hand, and it is gratifying that it is so easy to read and gives a good insight into what is happening in Sweden. I am stuck with some points that I think are important to raise. It is of the utmost importance that the RACs at our courts understand that Swedish laws are to be complied with. The judge, whom all the judges must swear, initially reads: Promise and affirm on my honour and conscience, that I will and will do according to my best understanding and conscience in all judgments, not less to the poor than to the rich, and will judge according to the law of Sweden and make statutes. ..................................................... In the mediated case of Solna law mentioned in the JO's report, this was not followed, but the design of the grounds was completely alien to the Swedish judicial system. In the judgment, we could read that the plaintiff came from a bad family, that it is not uncommon for women to lie about threats and violence and that the woman should first address the problems with the man's family. It was the reasons that are completely foreign to the Swedish judicial system. The Councilman has received criticism that a draft judgment was not reviewed with the RACs before the judgment was delivered. We share the view of the JO that this should be a routine procedure so that the Councilman can point out to the RACs that the grounds of judgment are contrary to Swedish law and what consequences this may have. Another important observation is the lengthy processing times at the country's building boards. As a former municipal politician on the building board, I recognize myself in this. Country should be built by law, but it is also very important for society and the individual that the handling is done with the urgency provided for in the Administrative Act. With regard to the disclosure of public documents, it is important that representatives of public authorities have knowledge of the content of their own procedures so that citizens can quickly access them and without disclosure of classified information. In the area of social security, it is noted that the number of notifications has increased for the third consecutive year. Long processing times at Försäkringskassan are an increasing problem, and it is good that this will be returned to in a future supervisory case. With regard to LVM, the Act on the Care of Addicts, there was serious criticism that several social welfare boards had failed to initiate an investigation to clarify whether an addict needed forced treatment. The law on the care of addicts is often the last straw that desperate relatives have to hope for, and it is important that municipalities' social welfare boards do not wait to use this. We also note that there is an initiative case in progress regarding the municipalities' processing times when it comes to being granted LSS. We hope that this will lead to a change for the already hard-tested users and their relatives. Once again, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has received criticism for slowness in the disclosure of public documents, and we must hope that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' proposal for action from 2018 will finally produce results.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-210	Mr President, I would like to As a new member of the Constitutional Committee, I was given early praise for the official report of the Ombudsman. I admit that I felt a little skeptical from the beginning, but I realize that I now have to join the chorus of tribute. Since childhood I have had great confidence and confidence in our authorities, that Sweden is legally secure and that the social safety net that exists will catch me if one day I will need it. Some may think that a 791 - page official report from the JO with review reports that take the temperature of the Swedish Government and the shortcomings that existed would make such a person like me a bit gloomy. But this is actually very interesting, easy-to-read and good reading s if shows the big point of JO's business. When authorities in any way do not work as expected, you can make a JO notification to review and let the JO review how things work. The main purpose of the activities of the JO is to promote legal certainty. The starting point for the activities of the JO is the individual's interest in being the subject of lawful and otherwise correct treatment by the authorities. It is excellent that the Ombudsmen raise this kind of issue, and we in committee assume that the government and the authorities will keep tabs on the things that do not work and will come back and take action. There are a few points I would like to highlight in particular in the KU11 report. It is clear that the staff of certain authorities, in particular the police, detention centres, the Prison Service and the Kronofojden – authorities with high powers vis-à-vis individuals – have, in many cases, treated people in an unworthy way. That is totally unacceptable. Mr President, I would like to I want to read an excerpt from s. 13 in the report and which has particularly touched on me. These are some of the shortcomings that exist today. In terms of care and treatment of affected persons, Cecilia Renfors notes that during the year she had several cases related to events where an inmate died during her stay at a police arrest. In her opinion, they show that there is an urgent need for reform. At the same time, she points out that it has not been established in any of the cases that the deficiencies have been directly linked to the death of the inmates. In this context, Cecilia Renfors highlights four cases. In two of the cases, she criticised the Police Authority for shortcomings in supervision where prisoners died in connection with their stay in the brig. She believes that these cases highlight the shortcomings that exist today in dealing with very intoxicated people and the difficulties that exist in ensuring the necessary medical supervision in police arrests. According to Cecilia Renfors, people who are taken care of for intoxication should not be kept in police residue but instead come under medical supervision. Against this background, she submitted the two decisions to the Government Office on the basis of Section 4 of the instruction. In another case, the Police Authority received serious criticism for the lack of control over the availability of medicine for a person to be taken to a home. the person died during the transport during his/her stay at a police arrest; According to Cecilia Renfors, the case shows that there are shortcomings in the procedures for protecting and transmitting information that should apply when the police are responsible for the transport of people with drug abuse. In the fourth case, the Police Authority was criticised for failing to deal with a woman who was taken care of for intoxication, including by not allowing her to be examined by a doctor, get a blanket or use a toilet. ..................................................... It is a huge failure that people who are deemed unable to take care of themselves at the moment and are thus subject to detention and other coercive measures die when they are to be under the protection of society. Respect for the dignity, civil rights and integrity of the individual should always be a matter of course – even then. Finally, I would like to highlight the important work that the Parliamentary Ombudsmen do through their inspections when they specifically examine various activities where there is the greatest risk of people being exposed without knowing how abuses are reported. Thank you once again to the Parliamentary Ombudsmen for the important work and the audits that you are carrying out. I support the committee's proposal to add the KU11 to the document.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-220	Mr President, I would like to Just before the summer recess, we debated in this House the Government's proposal A strengthened minority policy. In it the government announced its intention to come back with further proposals in this area. It has now done so in the form of a new beginning letter for a strengthened minority policy, which is the subject of this debate. It may be worthwhile for listeners to note that we intend to return with a wider and broader debate in the area of minority policy in the spring when the Constitutional Committee presents its report on minority policy and reviews all minority political motions. Mr President, I would like to Sunday is the Holocaust Memorial Day. It is 74 years since the liberation of the Auschwitz concentration camp. Memory Day is there as a strong reminder of what happens when nationalism spreads and limits what a country is to a people, a culture and an identity. That is precisely the beginning of genocide: exclusion, categorisation and oppression. Our country, too, has oppressed indigenous peoples and minorities. Our history includes both racial biology and forced assimilation. And to this day minorities are being oppressed around the world. They are expelled from their homes, colonized and murdered. Having a strong minority policy is therefore a basis for a strong and prosperous democracy. V i notes that this is addressed in the letter. Mr President, I would like to I think I never thought much of Finland as another country when I was a child, even though I was born and raised in Haparanda, the city in the middle of the Bothnian Arc and right on the national border with Finland. Half of me come from Finland, and almost all my family master Finnish or meänkieli. At home on the farm we always talked about our neighbors, not only those who lived next door but also our neighbors on the other side of the Torne River. They were neighbors with whom we once shared farms and relatives when the river did not form a national border. But as I grew older, the border became clearer, especially because I have never mastered Finnish when we didn't speak it at home. Swedish is also not very strong in Tornio. But it was most obvious when it was time for international hockey between Sweden and Finland. That's when things got hot. I remember when I was in high school and a TV channel came to Marielundsskolan where I went to do a story about native language. They put ten students in a row, eight of which stood together and two were on the edge. The eight who stood together had Finnish as their native language or could speak Finnish. I and another one stood on the edge and represented the share that did not know Finnish. Haparanda is a special city that way. Those who do not understand Finnish are in the minority, and those who understand and speak Finnish are in the majority. You can imagine what enormous rootlessness it has created in me to not know Finnish and to be outside. I didn't think I'd feel that way when I got older. Why am I talking about this? Because Finnish and meänkieli together with Sami, Roma and Yiddish are minority languages in Sweden. Since 1 January 2010, there has also been a law on national minorities and minority languages. It is in languages that minority politics and culture live. It is the literature, the fairy tales, the songs, the sayings and the stories that tell us about our history. The survival of languages is therefore also a matter of survival for minorities. The letter highlights a number of points aimed at further strengthening minority policy, including language. We want to develop an action programme to preserve the languages and review the need for more language centres, which we know to be highly sought after. Other proposals are aimed at clarifying governance and government structures and ensuring better coordination, follow-up and development. They are also about reviewing health care for minority groups and the need for knowledge about the health situation of national minorities. Skills provision is also addressed in the letter as an important part of minority-language staff in both health care and school. We also need to improve our own history. The Government therefore considers that the knowledge and visibility of national minorities need to be increased in society. Minority policy is also a question of solidarity. We in this generation must ensure that we take responsibility so that we do not jeopardise the ability of future generations to speak the language of their ancestors. Human rights are not something we can take for granted without something that we need to work actively with in every generation. The aim of minority policy must therefore be to make those roots grow again, so that fewer people feel rootless. That is why we welcome a fresh start to a strengthened minority policy. Mr President, I would like to I want to end by telling you a funny story. The governor and former MP Ragnar Lassinantti were to check into a hotel in Malmö. Growing up in Tornedalen and with the native language meänkieli, Lassinantti, like me and many other tornoes, was used to getting questions about where you come from and comments about whether you are not Finnish or belong to Finland when you travel around Sweden. Many comment on the accent. There at the hotel commented receptionist Ragnar Lassinanttis place of residence, which was Pello, as those who remember him know. The receptionist asked if he came from Finland, whereupon Ragnar Lassinantti quickly replicated:- Unlike Malmö, Pello has always been Swedish. ..................................................... I request that the letter be added to the file.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-237	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by asking for the Parliament's approval to add the letter to the file. Madam President, I would like The objective of minority policy is to protect national minorities, to strengthen their ability to influence and to support historical minority languages to keep them alive. The overall objective has been broken down into three strands: discrimination and vulnerability, influence and participation, language and cultural identity. In the letter proposed by the Constitutional Committee to be added to the document, the government reports a current state of affairs description of minority policy. The Government notes that there has been a positive development at an overall level but that there are large differences in the level of activity between municipalities, county councils and administrative areas. There are also differences in the level of activity between the three sub-areas in which minority policy is broken down. The Government stresses, among other things, the need for long-term work for the language and culture of national minorities and the importance of increasing the knowledge and visibility of national minorities in society. Madam President, I would like Sweden has five national minorities: Jews, Roma, Swedish Finns, Sami and tornadoes. For these groups, minority policy is more than just fine words in letters and investigations. For them, minority policy is serious. I would like to pay particular attention to the situation of one of our minority groups, namely the situation of the Jews in Sweden in general and in Malmö in particular. As a resident in Skåne, I am painfully aware of how bad things are at present in Social Democratically controlled Malmö. A striking example of the seriousness of the situation occurred in spring 2010 when the Jewish human rights organisation Simon Wiesenthal Center warned Jews from going to Malmö. It is a travel warning that still applies to Sweden's third largest city. Kim Bodnia, better known as Martin Rohde in the series Bron, dropped out of the series. One of the reasons was that Malmö is an uncertain city for Jews. "It's not safe as a Jew there," he said to the Israeli online newspaper Walla. Madam President, I would like The list can be made long. On December 9, 2017, several threatening rams were shouted against Jews during a demonstration.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-245	If I were to line up all crimes with anti-Semitic motives, I would far exceed my speaking time. Let me therefore sum it up by saying that the Jews' situation in Malmö is a political disgrace to Sweden. There are no words that can sufficiently express what political and human defeat it is that we allow there to be a city in Sweden where one of our minorities can barely live and live and even less openly express their religious affiliation without being confronted with hatred and threats. The Jewish congregation in Malmö has existed since the late 1800s. The congregation is a natural part of the city but is now threatened by a rapidly growing anti-Semitism. It is a problem that far too many for far too long have taken far too lightly. Madam President, I would like I have no criticism in substance of the document that we are now debating. It is full of good intentions that we Moderates are behind. But I want to be clear on one point. The Jewish minority in Malmö does not need more government-produced documents with fine words. If that had been the solution to the problem, the problem would have been solved a long time ago. What is now needed is action. The security of the religious communities needs to be increased, more police officers need to be seen on Malmö's streets and the penalties for the perpetrators of violence need to be tightened up. A free and open society requires a functioning rule of law. It is when the rule of law is undermined that minorities suffer. That is exactly what has happened in Malmö.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-249	Madam President, I would like The government's letter New start for a strengthened minority policy gives an overview of the current situation of minority policy and the work that remains to strengthen and safeguard the rights of national minorities. The Swedish state's treatment of national minorities is not a proud story. Sweden's minority policy has historically been based on the state's conclusions on the needs of indigenous peoples and national minorities. Policies have been designed without involvement, and the drafting of current legislation is all too often no exception. The letter contains many beautiful words. The importance of participation, self-determination and influence is mentioned as well as the need for a holistic approach to strengthened minority policies and for an increase in knowledge to take place. It is noted that better cooperation is needed as well as a more systematic approach, better follow-up, strengthened coordination and equal conditions for participation in consultations. It is also noted that there are large differences between municipalities and county councils within and outside the administrative areas. In short, many challenges remain. I do not dispute any of this, but I look forward to and hope for more concrete proposals in the future in order to ensure a strengthened minority policy also in practice and action. I also note that the special status of Sami as an indigenous person is not taken into account anywhere in the letter. I and the Left Party believe that a review should be carried out in which the Sami special position as an indigenous peoples is the starting point. It was therefore positive that the Minister of State Stefan Löfven, in the declaration of government, called the Sami people as a Sami people. Madam President, I would like There are a number of more concrete proposals in the letter, for example concerning increased organisational support. We are very much in favour of this. Madam President, I would like Two days ago, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven stood in this pulpit and read out the declaration of government. After just over four months, Sweden has a government again. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to send a message to the newly appointed Minister for Culture, Amanda Lind, who is responsible for minority policy. Ratify ILO 169, the Convention on Indigenous Peoples! It is high time, and it would show that the fine words spoken in debates about indigenous peoples and their protection are matched by active action. This is precisely what is needed in the future – more active action and less fine words – if you are serious about wanting a fresh start for a strengthened minority policy. With this agreement, I support the committee's proposal.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-257	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by asking for the proposal that the letter KU13 be added to the file. I would like to start by thanking Ida Karkiainen for a story and a description of what participation and exclusion are about in the light of minority politics. I would also like to express my thanks to Louise Meijer's very passionate defence of human rights in not least Malmö, which gives a darker picture of what happens when a society is unable to take care of a vulnerable part of the population. Madam President, I would like Sweden has always been a country with ethnic diversity and many languages. Those belonging to a national minority have the right to their language and the right to be involved in their culture. Prejudice against Jews, Roma, Sami and other minorities must be fought vigorously every day, and more than in fine words – even in action. As the previous speaker pointed out, Sami and Finnish have been spoken in Sweden for as long as the Swedish language, in some parts longer. The Roma and Jewish groups have been here for centuries. Until today, however, national minorities have been made invisible. Minority policy is about strengthening the individual's right to use his/her language, live his/her life and be involved in his/her culture and in Swedish society under his/her conditions. Madam President, I would like The transfer of minority languages to the next generation requires better access to preschools in minority languages, as well as mother tongue support and teaching. New forms of teaching in minority languages therefore need to be developed and the possibility of bilingual teaching facilitated. For example, Finnish or other minority languages could become an optional subject in modern languages in the places where both languages are spoken. I think Ida's story points to the value this would have given in her childhood if it had been possible. Why, then, am I pointing this out? Because this is what minority policy is all about, Madam President. Now that we are debating the letter, I take this opportunity to point out what we want to go forward. Another important aspect of minority policy is the so-called administrative areas of Sami, Finnish and Meänkieli. In these areas, individuals have a greater right of access to pre-school and care for the elderly in their minority languages and to use their own language in contact with authorities, municipalities, county councils and regions. Liberals have made sure that the administrative areas today cover a much larger part of Sweden. We also want them to continue to expand. Minority languages are also particularly important in the care of the elderly. Sami, Swedish finns, tornadoes, Roma and Jews have developed their cultures on Swedish soil for a very long time, in some cases that have said much longer than the majority population. I and we Liberals want this to be made even more visible by the fact that national minorities and minority languages are also mentioned in the Constitution. This would ensure that changes to minority policy would be preceded by considerable reflection and care. This is important. In the letter, the government gives a picture of minority policy. The Government stresses, among other things, the need for long-term work for the language and culture of national minorities and the importance of increasing knowledge and visibility of national minorities in society. Liberals welcome the presentation and the important work described. We assume that it will continue to move forward and intensify in order to further clarify the importance of a strong minority policy and make these groups more visible.
i-f4d2f0911f39eaa4-266	Madam President, I would like We have the letter in front of us. It is therefore an overview of the current situation in minority policy. In the letter, the government notes that more needs to be done to ensure compliance with the rights of national minorities. I am one of those who agree with this. The governance of the authorities needs to be developed. Better follow-up needs to be done, as well as long-term and developed work to support language and culture. The health situation of the minority population and how healthcare responds to it also need to be given a clearer focus. The visibility and knowledge of national minorities must be increased in society. I therefore welcome the fact that the Government states in the letter that it intends to set up an investigation into the continuation of the administrative structure for coordination, development and follow-up. I also welcome the announcement by the government of an action programme for the preservation of national minority languages and an investigation into the establishment and organisation of a language centre. As several others have mentioned, the Prime Minister stated in the Government Declaration that indigenous peoples' self-determination and influence should be strengthened. That's good. An independent human rights institution shall be established. The Prime Minister also mentioned in the Government Declaration that work on the national plan against racism should continue and that xenophobic hate crimes against minorities should be vigorously combated. As several previous speakers have pointed out, the words must be translated into practical action. The letter gives examples of some of the measures that the government intends to take, and this is necessary. On behalf of the Green Party, I look forward to us now during our term of office getting a consultation order on the Sami influence, for us to have a Sami Truth Commission and for work on the Nordic Sami Convention to continue. I would also like to take this opportunity to mention that the Green Party has invited a Sami political seminar to be held tomorrow for Members of Parliament. I hope that as many members of the KU as possible and other interested Members will have the opportunity to participate. This work is important for all minorities. Tomorrow we will focus on the Sami. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the committee's report to add the letter to the file.
