i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-0	Madam President, I would like At the end of last week, EU leaders met in Brussels. The meeting began on Thursday afternoon with the question which then marked the meeting, namely the discussions on Britain's withdrawal from the EU. Discussions went on well into the evening. Prior to the meeting, Prime Minister Theresa May had applied for the withdrawal date to be postponed until 30 June, instead of the previous date of 29 March. At the same time, she asked for the EU to approve the so-called Strasbourg agreement, which makes it clear, among other things, that the EU's intention is not to make the so-called Irish reserve solution permanent and states how to deal with a dispute about the interpretation of the reserve solution. The President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, stated in the run-up to the meeting that the EU should approve the extension, but only on condition that the withdrawal agreement was first approved by the British House of Commons. The discussions at the European Council began with Prime Minister May presenting his views on the situation. We then went on to discuss, within the circle of the 27 other Member States, how the EU would react to the British application. Although we broadly agreed on the EU's line, there were a lot of political and legal issues to be considered. First of all, the European Council fully supports the withdrawal agreement approved by both the European Council and the British Government. The agreement is the best possible for both the British and the EU. The EU has been courteous in seeking to facilitate British approval, including through the drafting of the so-called Strasbourg Agreement, which the European Council has now also approved. With regard to the extension of the negotiating period, there was basically a willingness to respond to Prime Minister Mays's request, but with some adjustments in view of the European elections. We therefore agreed on an extension to 22 May, provided that the British Parliament approves the withdrawal agreement. The date is set, given that Prime Minister May has made it clear that Britain will not organise elections to the European Parliament. As each Member State is obliged to organise such elections, the UK must leave the EU before the European elections, which are held between 23 and 26 May. Otherwise, the EU would risk a situation in which the composition of the European Parliament does not comply with the rules of the Treaty. Should the House of Commons vote down the withdrawal agreement a third time, the UK Government is expected to return to the European Council by 12 April with an indication of the way forward. This agreement was reached in the European Council after it had been anchored with the British side. While there may be frustration over the prolonged process, we also have reason to be satisfied with this result. The risk of the UK leaving the EU without an agreement already on Friday is avoided, and a little more time is given to find a solution if the withdrawal agreement is again voted down. Now the issue lies entirely in the hands of Britain. While we will continue to do what we can to achieve an orderly exit, contingency planning and preparations for an uncontracted Brexit are intensified. The government and the authorities have prepared carefully for such a scenario and are prepared to face the consequences. Of course, we still hope that such a situation can be avoided. Madam President, I would like The Friday began with the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the EEA Agreement, with the participation of the Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein Prime Ministers. The remaining items were then discussed on the agenda. We had a preparatory discussion for the EU-China Summit, which is due to take place on 9 April. China's issues are increasingly being discussed both in Sweden and in other Member States. It is therefore a good thing that the Heads of State or Government of the European Union have now had the opportunity to discuss how we can best work together towards China. I stressed the importance of the EU's common and broad approach, covering both free trade, peace and security issues and human rights. In this connection, I also raised the issue of Gui Minhai. Madam President, I would like The discussion on China is also closely linked to the issues of jobs, growth and competitiveness, which were also on the agenda. It is gratifying that the input I had made about the internal market, along with 16 like-minded colleagues, was clearly reflected in the conclusions. The joint initiative concerns the transition to a low-carbon economy, trade in services, better implementation and adaptation to digital developments. At the same time, we can see that there are partly different views on issues of state aid and competition. Some see these rules as obstacles to companies' ability to grow and compete globally. On the contrary, we believe that the rules are needed to ensure the functioning of the internal market, which is crucial for the competitiveness of industry and all companies. The government will therefore continue to keep these issues high on the agenda and contribute to the direction of further work. Madam President, I would like Another priority area is, of course, climate issues. In the run-up to the meeting, we had, together with a group of like-minded people, pushed for an ambitious direction. The result we had is a good start, and we will continue to push for the most ambitious outcome possible when the European Council comes back to the issue of climate at its June meeting. The European Council also followed up the work being done to combat misinformation. This is particularly relevant in the run-up to the spring European elections. The government supports the measures taken to strengthen the EU's handling of misinformation and supports the continued priority of the issue. Finally, the European Council noted that five years have passed since Russia began its illegal annexation of Crimea in March. It is important that the EU makes a clear note of this and continues to mark against the Russian action in Ukraine. Madam President, I would like This was the report back from the meeting.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-15	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. It has been a long journey with many discussions and negotiations for the Prime Minister, where Brexit has been the focus. I understand that this was also the case this time. After almost every report, we've been standing here talking about Brexit. In December, we did not want to speculate about what would happen. Of course, we agree that the British should not crash out of Europe, because that would be the worst thing for the British themselves, for us Swedish citizens, for our companies and for Europe. After last night's development, of course, I and everyone else have some concerns. However, I am pleased that we in Sweden have agreed that we want an orderly exit. I hear the government says it's ready for a hard Brexit. I believe that, and I am convinced that the Prime Minister has done what he has been able to do to ensure that it is as arranged as possible. Another issue that was discussed, apart from Brexit, is climate change. It is an issue of such scope and nature that we do not have the time and the money not to make the efforts that actually make the most difference. It is important that Sweden and the European Union not only pursue a policy that reduces emissions quickly, but also show others that it is possible to reconcile the transition with continued economic development and enhanced competitiveness. As I mentioned in the EU Council when the Prime Minister was there last week, the IPCC report of last year states that there are different scenarios, and in all, nuclear power is highlighted as a crucial energy source for reducing dependence on coal. The Swedish position that we decided on with the Minister for the Environment a few months ago also raised this issue. I heard the Prime Minister's reply last week, but I wonder if it was any other country or Member States that raised nuclear energy as an important element in achieving the climate targets.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-21	Madam President, I would like I also think it feels very good that we have a consensus on how we handle Brexit. It is an incredibly complicated process, and the future will be very complicated. Even if there is an orderly exit, there is a lot to be handled. If there were to be a disorderly and unsettled withdrawal, we would have a very difficult situation. But we are trying in every way to invite for an orderly exit. It is good that we in Sweden agree on this. I can say that the whole of the EU-27 Group agrees to try, but there are, of course, limits. Now the ball is on Britain's lap. As far as climate is concerned, the different types of energy were not specifically discussed. I will not say that nobody mentioned nuclear power or other types of energy, but it is not such a discussion that we are in. The discussion has been more at the level of the conclusions. There is a certain shared view between those who want to go very far – Sweden is part of that group and wants to make sure that we handle this quickly and resolutely – and those who say that we have too big problems ahead of us and want to be a little more careful in how we express ourselves. I think it was good that it was clearly written as the proposal was, that it is one and a half degrees that we are aiming for. That is the more ambitious part of the Paris Agreement, and I think that is quite right. Then, of course, we shall make sure that Europe is at the forefront of its implementation. We managed to bring forward the discussion on this at the European Council. As I said in my speech, the issue will now be raised again in June. The purpose of this is for us to find a common approach to the fact that the Secretary-General has its major meeting in September in New York on climate issues.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-25	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister. I cannot help but continue to wonder about nuclear power. The conclusions mention jobs, growth and competitiveness, that the long-term vision of the EU's industrial future should continue to be pursued. I find it difficult to see how sustainability issues and energy supply cannot be raised without involving climate issues and nuclear energy. This brings me to another issue in view of what the Prime Minister raised for the June meeting this year. The conclusions state that the work should be intensified, and the Prime Minister has now said so. What does the government intend to do to intensify efforts to come up with a strategy for the June 2019 meeting?
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-27	Madam President, I would like As far as the first is concerned, it is exactly correct that is said. Industrial development and transition, I mean, have every opportunity to go hand in hand. We're in the front. Therefore, I think it is good that Sweden has not been pushing these issues for a long time, because that means that we can now be at the forefront and say that it is possible to combine good economic development with reducing emissions. In fact, our CO2 tax, in particular, is an example. Several countries are now beginning to say that they also want to introduce a carbon tax. On the other hand, with regard to specific types of energy, the order is that the EU does not decide how the different countries should make their energy mix, but they decide for themselves. I think it is good, because we in Sweden have a broad agreement on how to deal with this. What we are going to come back to in June is precisely this type of question: how can we at the same time reduce emissions, ensure that we are competitive, have good economic development and do so with freedom for people?
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-29	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. The question of China has been raised at this meeting. How we in the European Union are to deal with future relations with that country will probably be one of our greatest foreign policy challenges. However, we are very pleased that the summit with China is about to take place and this issue is becoming the focus. However, Mr Reuters recently reported that the Commission will soon announce that no European legislation will be proposed to deal with the risk of Chinese espionage in European infrastructure. Instead, the Commission refers to the new cybersecurity act, which, unfortunately, is probably not enough to deal with the problem. If this is true, the Swedish Democrats regard it as very regrettable. Moreover, it is in the nature of the issue that in cyber security, the Union will not be stronger than its parts. It is a chain that is not stronger than its weakest link. In our view, there is reason to assume that all EU countries themselves will not be able to deal with this issue properly. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether he considers it appropriate for the EU to drop this puck and hand over responsibility to the Member States.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-34	Madam President, I would like We agree that we must work together to counter this type of activity, if I say so. It is good that the Swedish Democrats now also see the benefits of the EU and no longer want a withdrawal. This can then be addressed both at EU and national level. I mean, it should also be dealt with at national level. The precise path chosen by the Commission can be discussed, but we agree that we need to become much better at detecting and countering cyber threats to us. It is beyond doubt, and we will also ensure that it is done both at European and national level. We will have to come back to what this means at European level, but there is no doubt that everyone has an interest in ensuring that we are as safe as possible from this perspective too.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-37	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister very much for his reply. In view of the fact that the EU is not willing to take responsibility in this matter, the responsibility falls on the Member States. Can we feel confident here in the Swedish Parliament that this government will set rules that will ensure that equipment from companies that can be assumed to be connected to, for example, Chinese intelligence will not become part of the Swedish 5G network?
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-39	Madam President, I would like Now the Swedish 5G network was not up for discussion at the European Council. This is still a debriefing from the European Council. However, I can still say to Ludvig Aspling that the government is working very systematically on all kinds of security issues, including this one. This means that we are also strengthening the legislation in a number of areas. We are strengthening the tools to discover what we need to do, but it is perhaps another debate.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-40	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the report, Prime Minister. In the run-up to the meeting on Friday, there was a situation in the British Parliament, and there was another situation when you had the summit. Now it's a new situation. It is constantly changing, and it is difficult to speculate on what is happening and what is to become of it. In the re-report, the Prime Minister describes that the threat of a severe crash out now on Friday is averted. But it feels at the same time as if it is uncertain and doubtful if it is averted overall, on the contrary. It's a little delayed. What was the outcome of the discussions at the European Council? What can you influence, or what can you do to make them handle the ball right? It's just like the Prime Minister says: they have the ball. But for everyone it is valuable if it can be a good conclusion. Is there anything going on behind the scenes? That's one part. The second part is linked to the climate. I had a question when you were with us on the EU board last Wednesday. It was linked to this by pushing for net zero emissions. The Prime Minister described that Sweden has pushed this issue but that it has not been given a hearing to bring this forward, by 2050, in the documents. Which countries are going against it? Is there any plan for how Sweden can act between these summits to move forward positions and get more people to be on the track, so that we can eventually get a consensus on these issues as well?
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-44	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Qarlsson, for the questions! First, it's Brexit. As described, this is very difficult to know, because it is such an incredible tension on the issue in Britain, which is natural. The question is difficult. Last today we heard perhaps the most obvious Brexitists say that either it is an agreement and exit or it is not a Brexit. We know that a clear majority in the House of Commons does not want an unsettled withdrawal, but in some way they want to get an agreement. And if it is these two parameters and a majority does not want it without agreement, it must be something else. But it is actually very difficult to speculate on this. It is quite correct that it is not decided just because we have avoided the decision this Friday. It could still be like this. Britain has the ball. One way to show this is the date, April 12. It is set because the UK itself has said that it must at the latest then tell whether it wants to organise an election to the European Parliament, quite simply. Until then, we have to consider: What is the other way? That includes an opportunity to actually say: then we will organise an EU parliamentary election, and then we will remain here for a long time. It is a way for us to show that we are prepared to be pragmatic. As far as the climate is concerned, we have tried to do this before the meeting, and other like-minds expressed the same thing during the meeting. But it's stopping. There is no agreement on this particular issue. It is above all the Visegrád countries that are opposed. They don't want to put this up. I still think it is a good thing that we have expressed the 1.5-degree target. I think it would be better if we continue to raise more of the issues in the Council and not in the European Council, because then we have more opportunities to have majority decisions.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-48	Madam President, I would like It's interesting to see what they're landing in. One positive consequence, if you can put it that way, of this with Brexit is that it becomes clear to Sweden but also to all other countries what it actually means to be involved and not to be involved. That is one of the things that can still be put on the plus list in this discussion, although I think we could have been without it. However, if they give information before 12 April, the whole of the European Union will therefore be prepared to allow them to hold elections to the European Parliament. There is a readiness for that being possible. On 12 April it is the date when the message must be given back home, but also to the EU, I guess. I'll come back to the climate issue. What are those obstacles? That you have large coal mines and the like, I understand. But is there anything we can do to strengthen development?
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-51	Madam President, I would like First, it's Brexit. Yes, there's an alert. If the United Kingdom is a member on 23 May, when the elections begin, EU elections must be held. And Britain itself has said that it must decide on this by 12 April at the latest in order to have time for its process. That is why it is there on 12 April. They have that possibility, but then it means that they want an extension of some kind. Then we have said that we are ready, precisely because we want to find all kinds of ways, so that there will not be a disorderly exit. But the ball is now with Britain. Then there are obstacles to net zero emissions. They say: We have so much to do. We're not gonna make it. It's too expensive and so on. Here we must try to help each other and get as many ideas as possible to reduce emissions, because it is still one and a half degrees that apply.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-54	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report from the European Council. The conclusions are, as is often the case, a mixture of different things. Perhaps it is not really a kiosk roller, but it is quite general wording. This is particularly true in the climate area, where there is talk of compliance with the Paris Agreement, while there is no indication that the EU is about to do so. There is a need for a significant tightening up of policy. We would have liked it to have been made clear that the EU's own subsidies to fossil industry and to other climate-damaging activities would cease and that the European Investment Bank would be reoriented to stop lending to fossil investment and to lend to a green investment bank. This is something that the countries need in their transition. We would also have liked the EU's own activities to have been reviewed in such a way that they do not contribute to such emissions. But perhaps there is an opportunity to bring it up later. As far as China is concerned, we appreciate that the Prime Minister highlights the case of Gui Minhai. It is important to insist on doing so. We hope that it also means that his case will be highlighted in the context of the forthcoming summit, so as to put the EU's strength behind those words. Then I come to the question of Brexit. It is not so reassuring to see the actions of the British Government. It's a bit like seeing a car get into a curve at too high speed and get cord. You don't know how this is going to end. The problem is that it affects very many people's everyday lives, not least all the thousands of British people who may live and work and have their families in Sweden. They are concerned about what this means for their opportunities to live and work here under regulated conditions. I would just like to make sure that the Prime Minister is sure that the preparations that exist mean that British people living in Sweden can be reassured that this will be resolved even if there is no withdrawal agreement.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-59	Madam President, I would like First of all, the conclusions. They may never be regarded as kiosk rollers, but it is probably because the European Council's task is to indicate a direction in a number of areas. Nevertheless, I think it is very clear that it is precisely one and a half degrees that apply, not two degrees. That's the tougher angle of the Paris Agreement. I think it is absolutely right that we have got it there. We would have liked to have net zero emissions but, as I explained earlier, we did not get it. Then there is the continuation of this. It is important to see that whole. It is not just the European Council that will discuss this issue. It is also going to the Council. What are the conclusions of both the ECB and its own activities? Let us push for as offensive a stance as possible. Then we have more opportunity to get it through the Council than in the European Council. This must not be seen as an end point; it is a phase. Now it is important to push it forward so that we can have as broad an impact as possible, so that we can actually deliver one and a half degrees. Then there is China. Yes, I brought up Gui Minhai. I agree with the principle we have had in the past: that it is a matter of doing this in the best possible way for the person concerned in any given case. But there is no doubt that the EU institution, as well as individual EU Member States, has helped Sweden in this particular case, and it will continue. Then it's Brexit. Yes, the government is making a number of different preparations. This applies not least, of course, to the citizens. One of the most important things has been that the Swedish citizens who exist in the UK – that's about 100 000 – should not suddenly be put on a bare hill in a great uncertainty. The same applies, of course, to British citizens in Sweden. We are preparing for both of those options so that it will be as good and as safe as possible.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-63	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I very much appreciate the ambition to ensure that the individual Swedes in the UK or the British in Sweden do not suffer from the British Government's inability to resolve this. I think it is also important for the future relationship between the UK and Sweden. On the climate issue, it is good that the 1.5-degree target is there. That is absolutely important. But there is a problem in both the EU and Sweden, and that is that we know that, even if we write it there, that is not where we are going. We are not going there in Europe, and we are not going there in Sweden. To achieve this, much more decisive action is needed than today, and that is where the problems start. Then we cannot have a European investment bank lending billions to fossil investment. Sweden cannot expand Arlanda Airport, and we cannot build a fossil gas terminal in Gothenburg. It is therefore action that is needed, and here I mean that Sweden should take the lead and demand these fundamental changes that I actually think we can manage.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-66	Madam President, I would like Sweden is at the forefront. Sweden is probably the country that has in fact acted most clearly and most – together with like-minded people, should be said – and which in the EU circle is considered to be one of the countries or perhaps the country that lies primarily in climate policy. We'll be proud of that. So it is not something that we should do, but something that we already do, and that is where we should remain. I share the view that the discussion of what we are doing more concretely must continue. However, the choice of precise tools will not be a discussion for the European Council, but will be decided by someone else. It is right and important that the European Council has nevertheless given this direction. As I said, it is not always easy to get all countries on this type of question, but now we have it written. Let's use it and make it as offensively as possible. We will continue to deliver good climate policy.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-68	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. Many important issues were discussed at the summit, but perhaps the issue of Britain's withdrawal was the most important one. One important country for Sweden is about to leave the European Union, which I regret. At the same time, withdrawal must take place in such a correct and smooth way that problems do not arise. There we have already taken some decisions in the short term that will at least reduce the damage if the UK crashes out of the EU, even if no one actually knows, and in practice knows how it will go for people and businesses. After all, the Prime Minister attended the summit and took the decision to postpone the withdrawal from the Union without having to deliberate with the EU Council. No date was specified in the EU Board for the length of the Prime Minister's mandate. My question is therefore: what mandate does the Prime Minister consider to be for further extension of the agreement with the British? There may well be such a question. At the meeting, employment, growth and competitiveness were discussed. Several good Council conclusions were adopted on free trade, business conditions, skills development and social issues. However, as the Prime Minister is well aware, we Christian Democrats are concerned that the EU is beginning to legislate in areas of national competence, such as taxes and social security. I also have another question: I wonder if the feminist government, with the Prime Minister at the head, was trying to get some wording on the role of women in the labour market for increased growth in the EU.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-73	Madam President, I would like The first question of postponing withdrawal therefore applies after what is now decided and at the next meeting, if I understand Mrs Pethrus's right. We will, of course, come back to the European Council, but I have been very confident that we agree that it is important to get an orderly exit. If this were to include an extension, I have not felt any doubt whatsoever that it is actually part of this. Not at any price-- there's a framework for this-- but we're now deciding in this. It is also very clear that the decision is now in the UK: What do you want? Would it be the case that the UK wants to find a solution that does not mean a quick exit or a withdrawal without an agreement, but wants to extend and see the possibilities, the EU Board may say if it does not think we should do so? But I have so far understood nothing but that we agree to try to find a way to an orderly exit. We will, of course, come back to the European Council for the next meeting. That is how I have seen it, and I believe that the decision we have taken is within the mandate given by the European Council. We want to try to find a way, and then it means – including this one on 12 April – that if then the British want to, we should be positive about trying to arrange it in some way. As far as employment and the role of women in the labour market are concerned, it is something that the feminist government has expressed so many times. There is no doubt that both the European Union and the world know how we view this. It was not up here specifically, but we have no other view than, for example, that women's employment rates need to increase. We know that then we also add a lot of bnp.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-77	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Of course, we also want an orderly exit. I just wonder how long the mandate will last if Britain would like to have extended perhaps a year or so. Then surely the EU Council should be involved, so that the mandate of the Prime Minister is not too long. That's a little bit of what I meant. I just want to put Olle in the gate. The Paris Agreement and the climate were also at the summit, and both the UN IPCC report and the Commission's own climate plan state that it must be both renewable and nuclear. How does the European Council intend to proceed with the Commission's report on a cleaner environment and climate objectives? Should we not mention nuclear energy alongside renewable energy in the Commission's report and work with the European Council?
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-79	Madam President, I would like If Britain returns before 12 April and says that they want to remain, that is one thing. If you come back before 12 April and say that this withdrawal agreement cannot be approved, but we want to find another solution, then I think we should help to find that solution. Then it is also a new meeting of the European Council, and for that I will of course, as always, also consult with the European Council. On the climate issue, I do not know exactly what the Commission will write, but it is important that we have a common ambition in terms of both climate policy and energy policy. However, the types of energy that each Member State intends to use in its energy mix are determined by each Member State. I think it's a good order. We have a long-term, broad energy agreement in Sweden. Let's stick to it, and I think this is going well.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-81	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your report. I would like to have a nuclear and climate debate, but perhaps we can leave that to another occasion. Brexit is a sad child who has been following us for quite some time, and as it looks now, the hard crash is apparently averted. On the other hand, if you can play a little on the positive error, I would like to ask: is there any room for manoeuvre at all if it turns out that you do not want to continue with this withdrawal? Is there room for discussion if the UK wishes to remain? That would have been the very best solution as a friend of Sweden, a friend of Europe and a friend of Britain as I see it. I also thank the Prime Minister for raising the debate on China and human rights. As Jonas Sjöstedt mentioned, the Liberals also hope that this summit will specifically address the despicable situation of Minhais Gui. Nor should we forget the minorities that are constantly being sent to re-education camps, as it is so beautifully called – rather gulag or the like in my ears. I would like to know whether the Prime Minister intends to raise these issues of human rights at the forthcoming meeting. As far as jobs, growth and competitiveness are concerned, the Prime Minister himself said, and this is something that we are aware of before, that some see competition as a problem. There is a risk that some countries, for example in the light of what the United States is doing, will continue the negative discussion or doubts about free competition and start to engage in a lot of tariffs and trade barriers. How are the discussions going? Can you still feel that it is free trade that is actually the shining star when we talk about Europe, or is it creeping in more and more nationalistic tones and, if so, from which countries?
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-85	Madam President, I would like Let me first say something about Brexit. If the UK were to change its mind and express its wish to suspend the Article 50 procedure, the European Council would have to take a position on it. If I'm going to take a guess, I find it hard to see that we would consider it a good idea to interrupt the process. My guess is we'd try to find a positive answer. That's how it has to be done. I find it difficult to see that Britain would suddenly suspend the procedure. But anything can happen, so let's keep it open. At least that's the position of the Swedish government. I can express that the government would try to find a positive answer. Then there was the question of China and minorities. For this reason, the government has pushed that cooperation is about more than free trade, industry and innovation. On the one hand, peace and security issues are important in cooperation, and on the other hand, human rights issues are important. They are there as one of three parts, and that is why we have pushed them. It must not just be a matter of trade and business – they are, in themselves, important – but there is a much deeper dimension that we should stand up for. Then I turn to the issue of customs and trade barriers. That's a split question. We must not be naive. There are gigantic Chinese state-supported companies operating on completely different terms from European companies. I think the screening process to be introduced is correct, but we have been careful to point out – and we have broad support for it – that we ourselves should not act in the same way as China and create large monopolists in different sectors. We shall ensure that what works well with the free internal market, including competition, is protected.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-88	Madam President, I would like It seems that we are on the same shoulder in these matters. The risk of misinformation in the run-up to the elections was also a point raised at the meeting. It is thought that this issue coincides with the fifth anniversary of Russia's annexation of part of Ukraine. It is also good to hear that Russia is demanding excuses from the United States, saying that Russia does not interfere in the internal affairs of other countries. We can ask the Ukrainian or Georgian if they would agree. Is there a consensus in the EU on the importance of acting together with coordinated activities in relation to, for example, information sharing to counter the kind of disinformation that we are certainly exposed to? What does that discussion look like?
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-91	Madam President, I would like Well, there is a strong consensus about the need to do something, and of course it should be done at national level. But it does not work less than that we have real cooperation, not least with regard to the exchange of information. This also applies to the early warning system and so on. There are several good activities in Helsinki and Estonia. We also strengthen our own cybersecurity. There is a good overall view that we need to work together and do what we can in terms of skills, technology and resources to ensure that the disinformation campaigns are kept away a. Finally, it is our own democracy that is at stake. It must have legitimacy and the confidence of the people. We must do everything we can to maintain democracy.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-93	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. This is not the first time we have talked about Brexit in this House and probably not the last time either. But I have to say that it feels like all the options are suddenly on the table again after the decision in the House of Commons. I cannot help but feel a certain optimism, because suddenly it is not completely incredible that one could find a way forward for the people to say yes to a softer Brexit or to actually stop. I was going to keep the optimism, but maybe it's a little too marked by what you want. It still feels like there is such a possibility. I assume that our Swedish line, which is widely based, will continue to be easier to work as closely with the UK as possible. At the same time, however, there must be a difference between being a member of the European Union and not being a member of the European Union. What does the Prime Minister think about the willingness of other Member States to find another orderly solution? I'm not talking about an extension. I'm talking about a soft Brexit. Is it also feasible for the EU to get such a solution through?
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-97	Madam President, I would like It's good to be an optimist. As long as the possibilities exist, and as long as the issue is not resolved, why not? You have to be careful with speculation, but sure. We have always said that no matter how this ends – and I have said this on several occasions directly to Theresa May in bilaterals and in the European Council – if there is a withdrawal, we still want as much cooperation as possible. There is an opportunity for that. This could be research and innovation. I believe that security issues are of the essence that we should still ensure strong cooperation between the European Union and the United Kingdom. There are several such areas where there is every reason for us to have good cooperation. This applies to the EU and the United Kingdom, as well as Sweden and the United Kingdom. There's a deal. Other Member States have chosen to find a different solution. I will not speak for anyone else, but we have landed in trying to find the best solution possible. If the United Kingdom requests, which at the moment does not seem likely, an interruption to the Article 50 procedure, we will have to discuss it. It is up to the European Council. However, no one has said that there would be no question of us discussing the matter. No one has ever said that. If there is still a withdrawal, I am of the opinion that we should try to find the best solution possible. We're going to have as good a relationship as possible even after an exit.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-101	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Sweden and the Prime Minister for their efforts to achieve an ambitious climate policy at European level. The reports we have received on the difference between the 1, 5-degree target and the 2°C target and their consequences would really be enough for everyone to take on the climate responsibility they have to take. Unfortunately, however, it does not seem quite so. Nevertheless, one hears that climate responsibility is being put against jobs and equality. Nevertheless, the solutions to jobs, equality and climate change can be linked. When the EU is to develop a new industrial policy, is it possible for Sweden to push the perspective that issues can reinforce each other and see the new industrial policy as an opportunity?
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-105	Madam President, I would like I fully share Åsa Westlund's view that we should see it this way, namely as an opportunity. It's going to take a lot to change... that's it. But then we'll have a really sustainable future. If we put these questions against each other, that is to say that it is impossible to have economic development or to pursue equality issues if we tackle climate issues, the situation becomes impossible. That's not true. We have shown that it is possible to have good economic development and reduce emissions. Do we need to do even more to get an economic upturn? It is not the case, however, that developments are moving in the direction we would like. But that is not a reason to say that it is not possible to do so, but it is even more necessary. In addition, there should be equality on these issues, so that individual citizens feel that they are doing this work together, that it is a social issue, that we are helping each other. The individual should not receive the full bill. Then we can do this. We must be able to tell our children and grandchildren that we understood what was happening and that we were doing the right thing.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-109	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. I would like to begin by commenting on parts of the internal market and to welcome the focus on the future importance of the services sector for the European economy that Sweden has and which is also included in the Council conclusions. When we turn to a fossil-free economy, it is clear to me and the Green Party that much of the drive in economic development must take place precisely in the services sector. I would like to hear the Prime Minister say a few words about what we in Sweden see in front of us. What does it mean to develop the service sector? Are there any specific reforms in this area? The Prime Minister stressed the importance of referring in the conclusions to one and a half degrees and no longer two degrees. It may seem that this is not so important and that it is perhaps a detail. But it's far from a detail. When the UN Panel on Climate Change presented the reports that showed us the consequences of one and a half degrees, it became clear that we must do everything possible to avoid a scenario where we go over one and a half degrees. It is extremely important that this is what is written. I would like to hear the Prime Minister develop if there is a consensus among the Member States that the latest scientific reports should be the basis for developing climate policy.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-111	Madam President, I would like As far as the internal market and the services sector are concerned, that is quite right. It is also apparent in Sweden that the services sector is taking a greater share of the economy. It's natural for a number of reasons. It is important to develop in itself. This can range from facilitating business start-ups in different EU countries – there are still some obstacles – to pure business deals, which can be made more difficult by different things. That's why it's a pervasive theme to ensure that we implement and implement the regulations that we have in order for it to work. Nevertheless, I think that around the table there is a consensus that the internal market is a great asset for us in this area too. Nevertheless, in a little different Member States we have some visible and less visible obstacles which prevent this from happening. In addition, the services sector and the goods-producing sector are increasingly coming together. Maybe that's a big enough point. They belong together now. Before, they could be separated in a completely different way. Now that is not the case, because there is so much service being built into the production of goods. I can take car production as an example. If we cannot do this for the services sector, it will also affect the goods-producing sector. It makes this even more important. I feel, as I said, that we have a consensus about pushing in that direction. This with the climate and one and a half degrees is already well formulated by Karolina Skog. As far as consensus is concerned, some countries are more difficult for this. To say that this is established by, for example, the climate panel and that we should therefore do so and there is still resistance to it. But it makes it all the more important that we find a way to help each other so that they do not think they are isolated and given to their fate. We'll have to keep helping each other.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-114	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for that answer. The Prime Minister mentioned that the Council decided to take the next step on the climate issue as early as June with reference to the Secretary-General's important summit on climate change. Should we interpret this as a signal that the heads of state are prepared to form a work that will enable the EU to take a leading role in this work and in the meeting that the Secretary-General plans to hold?
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-116	Madam President, I would like I dare not promise exactly what all countries will say, but we were clear here: now that the Secretary-General is organising such an important summit, we must not get there without agreement. It was thanks to the work of the European Union that the meeting in Katowice finally went well, and it is probably so important that we do this again and have that vision. Just the fact that we all agreed that it is June that should apply – not later in the year, as we said earlier – is a good start. Then we will certainly get to work and argue to get as good writing as possible by June. It's still there. But the Swedish Government's view is that the EU should continue to have a leading role. We have shown that it has been successful in the past, and we will do it again.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-117	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What the West has done in 150 years in terms of technological development and civilization development, China has done in 45 years. China takes its place. You take the place financially. You take your place politically. You take place culturally. To some extent, it also takes place militarily. It is an act that has accelerated in recent years, while China's foreign policy has become increasingly aggressive. We see Chinese investments on a weekly basis in strategically important sectors. It started 20 years ago by investing in raw materials, mainly in Africa. The move has been made to invest in high-tech products in Western countries, not least in European countries. It also invests in infrastructure. These are investments that affect jobs, growth and competitiveness – just as the Prime Minister mentioned – both in China and in the countries where the investments take place. But it is a development that also has another side. We have talked about this in Parliament, including in the EU Council. There are worrying signs of human rights continuing to be violated in China. In 2016, the EU established a China strategy. Some things have happened only in those years. At the time of the preparatory work for that work, China did not really have the attitude it has today. We have moderately highlighted this in the EU Council. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: how are the discussions in the European Council on an updated and developed EU strategy on China going?
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-120	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct that China is developing faster than the Western world has done in the past, but it is also, of course, a matter of speeding up technology development. However, there is no doubt that China must now be regarded as a great power, no longer as a developing country as before. Now it's a completely different scene. It invests around the world, as was pointed out here, also in Sweden. We also have positive experiences in Sweden. Under Ford's ownership Volvo was not as well-managed as it is now, if I dare to put it that way. Now a huge European research facility for Volvo is being added thanks to Geely's ownership. We also have positive experiences. It is for this reason that the EU wants to introduce the screening mechanism; it should look at investments from a slightly different perspective. It is also for this reason that Sweden wants to do so. But it is not aimed specifically at China as a country, but we need to think with a safety perspective overall now. What kind of investment is good? Maybe some are less good. Is it good that we have foreign ownership in what faces more against security? As far as the European Union is concerned, we agree. I must leave it unsaid if anything has been said about a new China strategy. However, the issue of China was specifically raised for discussion in the run-up to the summit. The common position with China has direct links to the issues of competitiveness, entrepreneurship and investment. As I said, it is also about peace, security and human rights. There is therefore a broader view – it is not just about industry and competitiveness.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-123	Madam President, I would like I mentioned four dimensions in which domination is sought: political, economic, military and cultural. They are now woven into each other in a way that we have not seen before. After all, the fact that newly produced vessels in the Chinese merchant fleet should also be able to be militaryly classified raises completely new questions about what will happen in the oceans, not least linked to the fact that they also want to own ports in other countries. What are the ports to be used for? Here it will be a combination of trade, military and power that we have not seen before. That is why we believe that an update of the EU strategy is needed. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: Which countries does the Prime Minister think is closest to Sweden in terms of China and how we should handle the developments we see now?
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-126	Madam President, I would like That's a lot. There are several of us who are like-minded in terms of competitiveness and how we should act to deal with this competition without doing so that we ourselves reduce our competitiveness. Many of the 16 – 17 countries with which we have taken joint initiatives with regard to the internal market have the same vision as we do with China. This applies, for example, to the Nordic countries and Holland. I was myself and met the Dutch Prime Minister, Mark Rutte, last Wednesday, and we discussed China, of course. There are therefore several countries that have a common understanding in this area. I think we all see that we need a balance and an analysis here. We should not be naive, but neither should we strangle the opportunities offered by an exchange with China. There may be a need for a new strategy.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-147	Madam President, I would like Pia Steensland has asked me what measures I will take to ensure that the bill ensures that all the time it takes to perform the breath and probe operation – not only those parts that are considered to be of a sufficiently private and integrity-sensitive nature – will be considered as fundamental needs. The issue concerns, in particular, the changes in assistance following a judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court in 2009. The memo on breathing and probe feeding, which was referred to on 21 February, responds to the announcement made by the Riksdag to the Government in December 2018. The proposal in the memorandum to introduce two new basic needs in the LSS for personal assistance is urgent because it first meets the situation of those who need assistance for breathing. The proposal in the memorandum on probe feeding is a legal clarification, since probe feeding is today equated with the basic need for meals. Of course, we will closely monitor how the new law is implemented and what effects this will have on those who need assistance.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-149	Madam President, I would like It is difficult to take in, but the severe cuts in assistance that have taken place under the leadership of the Social Democrats and the Green Party have gone so far that breathing and probing are no longer considered to be fundamental needs. For us Christian Democrats, it goes without saying that this needs to be addressed urgently – everything else is inhumane. The fact that the government has not pulled the emergency brake and stopped the dismantling of the LSS a long time ago is very remarkable. Reports from the National Board of Health and Welfare and other authorities showed already in 2017 that people with extensive disabilities do not receive the help they need and are entitled to according to LSS. This applies not only to breathing and probe feeding, but also to other basic needs. I believe that it is then the government's duty to act quickly and forcefully in order to correct the case law that is contrary not only to the intention of the LSS but also to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which Sweden has, of course, signed. But nothing happens, and every day the S – MP government allows people's lives and families to be torn apart. In the KD – the M-budget we focus on the most urgent. Thanks to the fact that our budget received support in the Riksdag in December, a call was made to the government to change the law urgently so that breathing and probe feeding should be basic needs. It was a first necessary and vital step to restore the intention of the LSS, and it is a good thing that a change of law is now under way. But the answer from the Minister for Social Affairs not only makes me worried, but genuinely surprised and really frustrated. Madam President, I would like The memorandum presented by the government is called Need for help with breathing and probe feeding – not Need for help with breathing. In the impact description in the memorandum, it can be read that not a single person is expected to regain the right to assistance for probe feeding when the new law comes into force. Reference is made to the 2018 ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court, which has already established that gavage should be considered as meal intake and thus constitutes a basic need. The problem is – and I am convinced that the Minister of Social Affairs is aware of this – that the Social Insurance Office interprets the judgment in question in such a way that it is only the time it takes to relax and on the probe that counts as basic needs. The time it takes to bring the nutrition into the body does not count, as that effort is not considered to be of a sufficiently personal nature. It is because of this interpretation that we have been forced to change the law. Several lawyers in the disability movement have warned that the restrictive interpretation that the Social Insurance Office is making today will be permanent if the law will be designed as described in the memo. We Christian Democrats therefore take their warning very seriously. Madam President, I would like I was absolutely convinced that the government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, included in the January Agreement, would act on these warnings. However, the Minister for Social Affairs says today that this loophole will not be closed. In practice, this means that none of the many people who need assistance to get nutrition through a tube on the stomach will be helped when the new law is in place. This is remarkable and totally unacceptable. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs is therefore: is it really the view of the Minister for Social Affairs to take no steps whatsoever to strengthen the law in order to prevent the Social Insurance Agency from continuing with the restrictive interpretation that is being made today with regard to the feeding of seed?
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-160	Madam President, I would like I say thank you again to Pia Steensland for the question. We stood here before Christmas and discussed it. I do not think we have much of a debate. We are of course very much in agreement, although I think that in her speech Pia Steensland tried to give a picture that does not really match the reality, that there would have been substantial cuts, that no action has been taken and that the proposals for a change in breathing and gavage that the government is now presenting will not involve any changes. I don't think it's really inviting at the other end and trying to describe reality as it is. I think that Pia Steensland is as aware as anyone who follows the question of LSS and personal assistance that we already in 2009, ten years ago, received a judgment that has since come to affect the granting of assistance. This is what has generated a lot– I won't say worries because it's a far too vague word – consequences in many different ways for people who need assistance. The reason why the LSS investigation that has worked was that we saw together that there were major shortcomings. Now this interpellation is specifically about breathing and probe feeding, so I'm going to stick to it. However, let me remind you that only in 2018 was the decision made to include waiting times and preparedness in the assistance, and the two-year trials were removed. It is not a question of limiting resources, but the case law has changed. I think Pia Steensland and I, when we met here before Christmas, talked about the fact that there was a verdict in April 2018. Previous judgments have played a major role and have had a decisive influence on the continued application of the law. It was thought, of course, that this judgment would also do, but in a more positive direction. This was not the case, which is why the advice on breathing and gavage has been produced. I would like to emphasise that if we had not had the situation to which the Christian Democrats, among other things, contributed, a transitional government for over four months, we could have made proposals earlier. But, as you know, a transitional government cannot present political proposals, but we had to wait. However, I can say that this is one of the very first parts of the so-called January agreement that we deliver – an important part of the January agreement. I would really like to use my last minute of this speech to say that I am very pleased that in the January agreement we have some specific issues relating to personal assistance and which include breathing and probe feeding. We are now delivering it through the Department Letter. But it is also about self-care and narrow parental responsibility. We also intend to take initiatives in the area of headship later in our term of office. It shows that the issue is very urgent. I would like to emphasise in particular that the issue is very important not least for the Liberals as part of the January Agreement, if not for all of us. I do not think we should exaggerate and try to paint differences that do not exist on this issue. We really need to take action, and it is clear that we are putting forward the proposal on breathing and feeding because we want it to make it easier for families living in a situation where children have such a need that breathing and feeding must also be covered by personal assistance.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-167	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. Of course it was a judgment from 2009 that caused a lot of trouble. But the fact remains that it was in 2016, when the government's regulatory letter came to significantly break the cost trend, that the Social Insurance Agency began to interpret the judgment so much more restrictively. That's why we're here today. From having had a steady rise in the number of people included, there has been a dip since 2016, and 1,700 people have fallen out. I am concerned that no more action is taken than a reference to this judgment in the memo. That's why I've put this interpellation. We Christian Democrats will, of course, act when the bill comes to the Social Committee to ensure that the whole effort, including for probe feeding, is counted as basic needs. Although the government parties and the cooperation parties the Centre Party and the Liberals will not support the initiative, which I hope they will, we believe we will have a majority in committee. Having said that, I don't think the people who need help with probe feeding, and who listen to this, should have to feel worried. I hear what you're saying and I hope you'll make changes to the bill. Madam President, I would like We have an emergency situation in LSS. We Christian Democrats are therefore not satisfied with saving breathing and feeding. I am contacted almost daily by people who describe how the basic needs are hacked up into smaller and smaller parts, because the Social Insurance Agency makes a stricter assessment and interpretation of what is of a very personal nature, despite the fact that the person's disability has not changed since the previous assessment. To illustrate how inhuman it is today when a person's life is broken down in minutes and seconds, I want to read some of a decision from the Social Insurance Agency. It is a decision that concerns a person who needs the help of an assistant to be fed by mouth. This is what the decision says: The Social Insurance Agency does not accept waiting times to chew and swallow as a basic need for a meal because it is not an active effort. Let it sink in! To chew and swallow is not considered to be basic needs today! Madam President, I would like When the situation is this acute, we believe that we must do everything in our power to bring about rapid legislative changes. We Christian Democrats will therefore, in the context of the discussion in committee of the bill on breathing and feeding, urge that all basic needs in their entirety be considered to be of a very personal nature and thus be eligible for assistance. It is a change that could help many of the 1,700 people to be covered by the law again. I would like to talk more about how we are going to develop this. We have to let go of the prestige of this issue, because it is so incredibly important. But I still have to go back a little bit to this with the probe feed. An announcement to the government regarding the KD and M budget reads as follows: The government should return as soon as possible to the Riksdag with legislative proposals that clarify that breathing and probe feeding should be basic needs according to the Act on Support and Service to Certain Disabled People, LSS.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-177	Madam President, I would like The answer is yes to the last question and to what the interpellation is really about, namely the product and the legislative referral that we have produced and which will be a bill to Parliament on breathing and feeding. We are, of course, putting forward the proposal in order to provide the necessary support. It should make clear what I think we think across all party boundaries should be quite obvious but that has not been so. We believe that this clarification should ensure that breathing and gavage become basic needs. Otherwise, I would not be standing by to give that answer in this House today. That does not mean that this is the only thing and the last thing we do, but this debate is about more issues than that. That is why I emphasise once again that we will come back to the issue of self-care and the narrowing of parental responsibility. If we are to talk about LSS in the case of children and young people, especially small children, it is the issue of parental responsibility that makes it quite clear that the assessments can differ and make a mess of things. There is a reason why in the January agreement we have chosen to focus on some very clear elements that we are quite convinced of will have a clear effect and will adjust several of the elements that have been experienced as problems. When it comes to self-care and the tapered parental responsibility, it is clear that we are coming back. It's in the January agreement, and the investigation is scheduled for a date. I would really like to emphasise that the LSS issue is comprehensive. It is not as simple as that the breath and probe feed product will solve the whole, but we will continue to have discussions in other parts. But we present this product, because we believe it will clarify to Försäkringskassan how we politically, not least the Riksdag, view the right to personal assistance for breathing and probe feeding. I note that Pia Steensland has proposals to be tabled in committee. It's not something I've been touched by before. Perhaps part of the purpose of this interpellation debate is to make that clear. Since I do not know about this and do not really understand it, it is not something I can comment on, but I hope that the product that we in the government have developed together with the Center Party and the Liberals and who are well prepared to go through so that the people affected will have a change this summer.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-182	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs. The reason for this interpellation debate is that, when we make a legislative proposal, it is important that it closes the problem that exists today, namely that the Social Insurance Agency makes interpretations that run counter to the intention of LSS. When it came to probe feeding, many breathed out when the verdict came and thought that it was now clear, that everything was quiet and that they would get help with probe feeding, but the problem is that the Social Insurance Agency again interpreted it so that it is only relaxation and relaxation of the probe that should count, not the time it takes to bring in the nutrition. The reason I asked the interpellation was that the only thing that says about probe feeding in the memorandum is that they refer to the 2018 judgment and say that it already says there that probe feeding is equated with meal and basic needs. There is no further clarification that it should be the whole that counts. This is what is so important when the law changes – that this will happen. I hope that the government will change the bill when it comes, so as to clarify it. If it is not done, not a single person will be saved by the law, and that is also what the impact assessment says. It does not mention a single person with a probe that will be captured, but it is only those with breathing who are involved – that they should get into the la gene. It's an estimated 30 people. That's why I'm standing here, and that's why I'm pushing. We must change the law in such a way that the Social Insurance Agency interprets it correctly.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-186	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland! I mean it, because I think it is valuable that we stand here and have a discussion. I always listen to what different parts of the movement say. I've really tried to meet them in the year I've been responsible. It is not more than that, but there has also been some progress in terms of waiting times, preparedness and two-year re-examination. We continue to make changes to ensure that the legislation we have is to give the right to the person who needs support. As far as breathing and probe feeding are concerned, we want the best possible legislation, but the opinion of the government, Liberals and Centers is that the product – the bill – that we will be presenting and that the committee will have to deal with quite quickly in the spring so that it can be implemented this summer in response to the shortcomings that exist. We always listen to objections and proposals for improvement, but we need to change laws in a way that makes it possible to implement them as quickly as possible. Like Pia Steensland and other political representatives in this House, we believe that this is a matter of urgency.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-190	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me what measures the government intends to take to enable Sweden to compete with the rest of Europe in terms of growth. At first, I can see that the European Commission estimates that Sweden's economy over the last four years has grown by 12%, compared with 9% for the EU as a whole. Compared to the last ten, fifteen or twenty years, Swedish growth has been, on average, about 1 percentage point higher than the EU as a whole. Compared to economies similar to Sweden, the difference is in many cases greater. The fact that Sweden's growth rate is slowing down right now is to be seen primarily in the light of the fact that Sweden is probably in a later stage of the economic cycle, after many years of strong growth. During the 2014 – 2018 term we had twice as high bnp-per-capita growth as in the years with the previous government. Sweden has not only maintained good growth compared to other countries. Sweden also has the highest employment rate in the EU. In addition, over the last four years it has risen significantly. During the last term of office, employment increased by over 300 000 people. The government continues to make substantial investments to further increase employment and growth. These include measures in the areas of infrastructure, research, innovation, education and the common welfare. Actions within the framework of the Research and Innovation Bill help to strengthen the conditions for Sweden to maintain international competitiveness. The knowledge boost enables people to strengthen their position in the labour market. Start-up jobs, efforts to accelerate the entry of newcomers into the labour market and investment in improved knowledge at school also create the conditions for more inclusive growth. Last parliamentary term, historic efforts were made on welfare. Over the next four years, resources will be strengthened by a further five billion annually.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-196	Madam President, I would like Sweden has basically a strong economy for a long time. The foundation was laid several decades ago when the large parties agreed on surplus targets, expenditure ceilings and other important measures. During the eight years of the Alliance's government, public debt declined despite a deep financial crisis and reduced tax pressure. Debt has continued to decline during the current boom. So far, I fully agree with the Minister for Finance – the Swedish economy is hardly in crisis. When, on the other hand, the Minister of Finance proudly notes that the bnp developed stronger during today's boom than during the global financial crisis, I think she is taking the debate to a rather low level. It is the same when she and other Social Democrats boast that unemployment has fallen and the employment rate has increased. If unemployment had not fallen during a strong boom following an extremely deep financial crisis, it would have been extremely remarkable. Moreover, the development is the same or even stronger throughout Europe. We Moderates often point out that you must be able to have several thoughts in your head at the same time. Sweden is currently doing quite well, has a decent economic development and a decent labour market, but both the national economy and the labour market could have been much better with the right policies. Regrettably, the government has squandered the opportunity to make major and important reforms for the future during the boom to equip us for worse times. And there are a number of major and important social problems that have not been taken seriously. Unfortunately, it is also a fact that in many areas we are falling behind the rest of the European Union. It is not enough for our labour market to be strengthened if developments in the outside world have been even better. It is not enough that growth has been decent if it has been significantly stronger in other countries. We're falling behind. If Sweden does not keep up with developments in the outside world, we will slowly lose competitiveness, and the currency will continue to weaken, making us all a little poorer every day. Madam President, I would like Each government must be judged on how to succeed in relation to the conditions. To be able to withstand the negative consequences of a crisis better than most other countries is a far greater achievement is to have a weaker positive development than others in a boom. When the current government took office in 2014, it was promised that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. Sweden was then in the twelfth place. Today we have slipped down to position 19. It is understandable that the government is now abandoning the target. We now also see that Sweden's GDP growth per capita is among the lowest in the EU. Just counting total growth becomes misleading. After all, growth is divided into the number of inhabitants. As the population has increased so much as a result of migration, for example, growth per inhabitant is becoming increasingly important to measure. And there Sweden lags behind hard. At the same time, the Swedish krona has weakened very dramatically in recent years, which means that import prices increase and our Swedish krona loses in purchasing power. Internationally, the Swedish people have become poorer. Sweden is in many respects well placed for growth and even stronger employment. Overall, the population is well educated and quickly embraces new technologies. Industry is innovative with extensive research and development activities. We should be the best in the class in terms of growth per capita and employment. Instead, we are skimming compared to other EU countries. Madam President, I would like During the Alliance, Sweden succeeded better than the rest of the world in terms of both the labour market and growth. Today, we are doing worse than most comparable countries. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance why this has happened during the time she has been Minister of Finance.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-206	Madam President, I would like As for the fact that it is difficult to say that Sweden is doing so much worse than other countries, I said in my reply that Swedish growth has been higher than the average in the EU over the last four years. Looking at per capita growth, it has been higher in the last four years than in, for example, Denmark, Germany, Austria, the United Kingdom, France and Belgium. The Swedish success is not only due to the fact that we have had a strong economy for a few years. Looking over a longer perspective, we now have the highest employment rate in 25 years. The share of people living from different benefits and benefits – i.e. transfer systems – is the lowest since 1981. And the public debt is the lowest since 1977. This is, therefore, not just about the fact that we have had high growth for a few years, but about working actively to get more people into the labour market. This is a policy that the government will of course continue to pursue in the coming years. It is about continuing to strengthen welfare, because it is important for people to be able to work. It is about continuing to strengthen our infrastructure – railways and roads. It's about continuing to build homes. The Moderates want to remove existing investment aid. On the contrary, we think it is important to build housing. It is also about continuing to expand the knowledge boost, so that more people have the opportunity to take the jobs that are emerging. It is an area in which the Moderates have shown that they are not interested in spending money. Moderate policies with deteriorating housing conditions, with deteriorating conditions for companies to find the right skills and reduced opportunities for labour market training are hardly the way forward when most companies say that the problems they have are finding people with the right skills. And people with the right skills should have the opportunity to move to where the jobs are. This policy would pose a risk and be bad for growth and productivity.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-208	Madam President, I would like I think we can agree that the government debt is low. Otherwise, however, I do not think we agree on much. Once again, we are talking about two different things. We are talking about growth, and we are talking about growth per capita. That's two different things. We can also agree that overall Swedish growth has been quite good. When you break it down per capita, it is true that we are better than a number of other countries. But we are at the bottom of the EU – we have been doing that for quite a long time – and I think that is quite serious. I note that the boom is helping to conceal Sweden's underlying problems. Thanks to a strong global and European economy, it is almost impossible to fail to get positive figures. Tax revenues are increasing and unemployment is falling. This has been the case for almost every boom in Swedish history. But I would like to point out that Sweden is actually lagging behind. It does not help that Sweden succeeds quite well if others succeed even better. At this point one might imagine that a government would put all its energy into getting more people to work, getting more hours worked and making clear efforts to get more new arrivals to work. However, what meets us is new leave reforms combined with threats of increased taxes. Friår och familjevecka is not what Sweden needs right now. Instead, we need more people to work more. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Finance in concrete terms: how can free years and family weeks help us to boost Swedish growth per capita?
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-212	Madam President, I would like The fact that Moderates are against opportunities for ordinary people to be able to work a long career is not news. The Moderates have voted against almost every opportunity for ordinary people to get some extra leave during the summer or to be able to take parental leave with their children. This does not, of course, apply to the custody allowance, which is a specific support, not for people to be able to work but for women to be at home. Both the family week and the free year would give people the opportunity to work a very long working life. Family week in particular is an opportunity for families with children to put together the puzzle of life. Summer holidays are much longer than vacations. Not least for single parents, this will mean a great deal to both being a good parent and being able to do their job. This is therefore about reforms in order for people to be able to work a very long working life. It is a question of investing in a wide range of areas. As I said in my last speech, it is about the need to train staff. The staff must be able to move to where the jobs are. You have to be able to commute. We need to invest more in infrastructure in the coming years. And we must make sure to face the fact that there are increasing numbers of older people in Sweden. Women my age must be able to work full-time and not have to go down part-time to care for their parents and other older families. It will be an important reform in order to maintain labour supply in the coming years. New arrivals coming to work is a central issue for the government. There are several proposals in the January agreement that will strengthen the opportunities for newcomers to get to work. Labour market policy has proved to be an effective instrument here. I can only note here that the Moderates proposed very dramatic cuts precisely in terms of the opportunities for newcomers to get the education that will enable them to take a job. For example, we saw in the news a while ago a woman in Närke who trained as an excavator, who is a shortage profession, and then got out to work. She has thus fled Syria to Sweden, trained as an excavator and is soon in work. It is this kind of opportunity that the Moderates and Christian Democrats, with the support of the Swedish Democrats, cut down on in connection with the napkin budget that they presented in the Riksdag. We from the government will of course work to ensure that there are good opportunities for newcomers to get into work through labour market policies, labour market training and start-up jobs.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-217	Madam President, I would like Growth is crucial for long-term welfare to be able to get more money. Any policy that discourages growth also counteracts a strong prosperity. We need to work more and not less. The Minister of Finance says that three family days would mean a great deal in summer when it's a school break. There are still frits that you have access to. I therefore find it very difficult to see that this would be the crucial issue. We know that the free year was very unfair. Only certain professional groups and certain persons could take part in it. Others have had no opportunity whatsoever to do so. It is an extremely unfair and very expensive reform. I repeat that the government bears a heavy responsibility for not having used the boom to push through the important reforms that could equip Sweden for the future. A passive policy has been pursued, relying on the effects of the boom. At the same time we are talking about spending this and so much money on various things and are upset that the Moderates and Christian Democrats withdrew some of these so-called initiatives. We did it because they didn't have any effect. It was throwing money into the lake. The money did not have the effect that the government promised. Then it is time to withdraw these bets and spend the money on something better. That is exactly what we thought with our budget. Now the government wants to return to the bad efforts made in the past. That can't be the way forward. The Minister of Finance never really answered my first question, which is why I repeat it. During the time of the Alliance, Sweden succeeded better than the rest of the world, both in terms of labour market and growth. Today, Sweden is doing worse than many comparable countries. Why has this happened during the time that Magdalena Andersson has been Minister of Finance? Of course, I don't blame her personally. But what is it that the government has missed, because Sweden has succeeded worse than other countries?
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-221	Madam President, I would like Let us note once again that during the last parliamentary term Sweden has experienced higher growth than other EU countries. We have the highest employment rate measured in Sweden in 25 years, we have the highest employment rate in the EU and we have the highest employment rate ever measured in any EU country. We have the lowest proportion of people living on transfers of grants since 1981, and we have the lowest public debt since 1977. Making this appear to be a failure may require a greater piece of art than is possible from the Parliament's pulpit. On the other hand, I fully share the view that it is extremely important that we continue to work on reforms in order for more people to get to work. But the Moderates have shown in their budget bill what they want. It is very clear what moderate politics is: lowering taxes, mostly for those who earn the most. This should then be paid with cuts, for example when it comes to new arrivals being able to get that education that makes you come to work. It's classic moderate politics. Looking at the distribution policy conducted during the last parliamentary term, it is clear that we made sure that those who are a bit tougher are also the ones who are allowed to take a greater share of the common financial resources. If you look at the distribution in the Moderate Budget Movement, it is very clear that it is high income earners who benefit. It is classical moderate politics, but that is not what Sweden needs. We need to invest so that more people get into work and new arrivals receive the necessary training. We will build the homes that allow young people to leave home and people to move to where the jobs are. We need to build the infrastructure that enables us to cope with the transport of both goods and people. Together with research, this is what enables Swedish productivity and growth to be strengthened.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-226	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me whether I am prepared to initiate a rapid review of the consequences of the Cash Register Act for market and market dealers and whether I intend to promote the preservation of market and market trade such as entrepreneurship. She has also asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that market and market fairs can also operate on reasonable terms and how I view the Tax Agency's original proposal on flat-rate taxation for companies operating in the marketplace. Let me first state that I support the measure of the bourgeois government and of my predecessor, the moderate Minister for Finance, to extend the cash register legislation to market and market markets. There is no indication that this industry is less affected by black income than the rest of the industry or that the need for control would be less for this industry. During my time as Minister of Finance, the minimum reserve requirement has been extended to include traders operating in Sweden without having a permanent establishment in the country. A key element for maintaining both market and market trade and other entrepreneurship is that competition within and between different industries takes place on equal terms. The Tax Agency therefore has an important task, not only to collect the tax needed for society to function, but also to ensure that all entrepreneurship is carried out on fair terms and that serious entrepreneurship is protected. The ideas on flat-rate taxation have been put forward in various contexts. Such proposals have in common that they do not result in the taxation of real income and therefore benefit those who have higher income than the standard reflect at the expense of those who have lower actual income. The system itself is thus a departure from the principle of tax affluence. In some cases, it may nevertheless be considered appropriate to introduce such a tax; for example, a possibility of tonnage taxation was introduced for the shipping industry in 2017. Nor do I want to rule out that there may be other situations where flat-rate taxation may be an option. It is, of course, important that companies, including market and market outlets, have good and predictable conditions to operate from outside.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-231	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to start by saying that I share the Minister's view that entrepreneurship should take place on fair terms and that serious entrepreneurship should be protected. Torture and market trade are serious entrepreneurship, which must be protected and which must operate on reasonable terms. The reason I put this interpellation is a number of meetings with entrepreneurs in this industry that testify to the fact that they are not always treated fairly. There was nothing wrong with the intentions behind the Cash Register Act. In practice, however, it does not work as intended. When the law was introduced, there was information that it was possible to buy cash registers at a reasonable price that worked in all weathers. It turned out to be untrue. Even today, such devices are not approved for outdoor use and when the humidity is above 60%. Guarantees and insurance simply do not work when using these devices in bad weather. And markets and marketplaces are, as we know, mostly outdoors. We live in a country where there is no sunshine 365 days a year. Every time it rains or is too cold in a market, serious traders risk breaking the law. When we debate fair terms for entrepreneurs, I would like to highlight another issue that is perceived as extremely unfair by the market and market outlets, namely the anonymous controls by the Tax Agency. The IRS comes and carries out checks without making themselves known. The controlled trader receives one or two months later a letter with a penalty order without being able to explain or discuss whether or why an error has occurred. As one of the tax authorities' controllers has explained: We cannot introduce ourselves and say that we are controllers, because then you will finally recognize us! I hope that the Minister does not share this view of humanity, where entrepreneurs are treated as potential criminals. In my view, the purpose of the control – and with controls at all – is that traders should not make mistakes and, above all, not repeat the same errors twice. It should be far more fair and honest to point out on the ground what error has been committed instead of sending a letter the month after the check. Another problem is when an employee makes mistakes, for example forgets to ask if the customer wants a receipt. Then it is the entrepreneur, the market vendor, who will pay the fine. Usually, the employees are young people, aged 16 to 20. This approach, that the fine should be paid by the owner, overrides an important legal process. But it also discourages these traders from hiring young people, which is regrettable.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-238	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Tax Agency has been given the opportunity to carry out unannounced checks. The assessment is that it is an effective tool. When you listen to Boriana Åberg you can get the impression that there should only be preventive checks. In that case, it means that you should only be advertised checks. I have previously considered that there has been quite broad political support for the fact that there are points to having just unannounced controls. It is based on the fact that the trader does not know that the person who comes to the market and is there is precisely from the Swedish Tax Agency. In general, ministers do not usually have such detailed views on how an authority controls its activities. My view is that this has also been the case in the past, moderate, finance ministers. If Boriana Åberg has many views on how the Swedish Tax Agency practically handles the controls, she may be able to get better answers if she asks the Swedish Tax Agency the next time they come to the Tax Committee. But I'll answer as best I can. The Swedish Tax Agency believes that it is important that traders should not know in advance that it is the Swedish Tax Agency that is coming. Normally, it is already under control that it is the Swedish Tax Agency that does the control. However, in some cases it is not considered appropriate to do so. If anonymous checks are carried out, it is included in the Swedish Tax Agency's instructions that they should contact the controlled person in close connection with the completion of the checks. This is the information I have received from the Swedish Tax Agency. The question then is whether you can require cash registers in rain and cold. Here it is important to point out that there are possibilities for the Swedish Tax Agency not to charge a check-out fee if it is technically impossible for some reason to have a check-in register. For example, there have been cases of pastures where there has been neither electricity nor coverage. So it's possible. At the same time, there are cash registers that can also be installed in tablets, and tablets can handle many different weather conditions. But if there is weather that makes this impossible, then there is the possibility for the Tax Agency not to charge a fee. Of course, it is important that we follow these developments and ensure that there are good conditions. However, in order for there to be good conditions for all serious market and market dealers, it is important, I believe, that there is an opportunity to check whether some do not operate on fair terms so that those who do so have the opportunity to compete.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-243	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for that answer too, Minister. I would just like to make it clear that I am not against unannounced controls; I am against not making oneself known after finding faults. Of the hundreds of controls that are done, only a few show that people are doing wrong, so it is no use that you always introduce yourself and talk to everyone. If, however, you discover wrong, you should go forward and say: You did it and that wrong. Here's your ticket. I understand that this does not fall under the immediate responsibility of the Minister. I just wanted to point out to the Minister, who so nicely said in her reply that she is in favour of fair terms, that there are details that can be made even more fair. I hope there's some way to fix it. I'd like to come back to my interpellation. I asked the question whether the Minister intended to promote the preservation of the market and the marketplace. I did not feel that I received an answer in either the first or the second round. I and many others think that market and market trade is an important part of Swedish cultural heritage. Many rural areas live up to the fact that there is a market from time to time. One example is the market in Jokkmokk, which attracts many stakeholders from all over the country. It's reflected in TV reporting, news and so on. It would be very unfortunate if the markets in the north, and also in Skåne that I come from and where the markets are also very important, disappeared. There are statistics that show that there are fewer and fewer market dealers, or cracks as they are sometimes called. It is particularly difficult for sports associations to attract people to their events. As a result, these associations receive less income, less money to spend on young people's activities, which in turn reduces or threatens to reduce the supply of youth activities and various sports. I therefore hope that the Minister will in some way want to review this law, which does not work as the intentions were.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-249	Madam President, I would like I thank Boriana Åberg for addressing these examples of how control works in different markets. It is, of course, important for me as a minister to hear various testimonies about how the authorities' activities are managed, both from the authorities and from members of parliament, and also when I meet the Torg and Marketers, an organisation that you run into in different contexts. It is important and very welcome. I fully share Boriana Åberg's view that the market vendors or shoppers are an important part of Sweden and the Swedish cultural heritage. This is also something that matters a lot to youth and sports associations. Also for some areas this is important to put the district on the map and drag tourists, perhaps not only when it is market but also other parts of the year. It is therefore, of course, important that there are good and reasonable conditions for those who engage in market and market trade. The Cash Register Act was precisely a way of protecting the serious traders in the field, a way of trying to strengthen the conditions for this industry. The extension that was made so that the minimum reserve requirement also applies to traders operating in Sweden without having a permanent establishment is also something that increases the competitiveness of Swedish market participants. These were two measures precisely to strengthen the opportunities for competition for all serious people that we have around the country.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-252	Madam President, I would like I would ask the Minister to clarify his answer on the proposal on flat-rate taxation. This should be looked at a little more closely, I think, especially because it was the original proposal from the Swedish Tax Agency. The Minister says in his reply that flat-rate taxation benefits those with high incomes and disadvantages those with low incomes. I'm sure there's a chance to discuss it. It is certainly also possible to find a reliable method to make this possible flat-rate taxation fair, for example, based on the number of meters rented by a particular trader, the number of employees or the number of company cars, so that it does not hit unfairly. Since the trade organisation itself is cautiously in favour of the proposal, it should not be so difficult to realise that it might be a better solution while waiting for cash registers to work in all weather conditions. I would like the Minister to develop his response on flat-rate taxation.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-255	Madam President, I would like There are clearly both advantages and disadvantages of flat-rate taxation. One advantage is that it will be easy. It becomes easier for companies, and it can also be easier for people who are not so used to running businesses to step in and become entrepreneurs. On the other hand, one disadvantage is that for those who step in, taxation risks being higher in relation to the costs than for those who have been entrepreneurs for a while. When you build up a business, you usually have some costs that you have to deduct before you start paying tax on the profits. This makes it easier for new companies to enter the industry. Before making a profit, you don't have to pay any tax. If, on the other hand, a flat rate is applied, it may be more difficult for new companies to enter the market because they will then have to pay tax regardless of whether they have made a profit or not. Of course, you can have a flat-rate tax on, for example, the number of vehicles, but this will make it easier for those who have owned their vehicles for a long time. They have more opportunity to pay taxes than anyone who has just bought a vehicle and may have large debts, interest and mortgages on the vehicle. There can therefore be a problem with new ones entering the market if you have flat-rate taxation. But, as I said, there may be reasons for certain sectors to look at flat-rate taxation, and so has the government. I would like to thank Boriana Åberg for raising this issue. It is important that we have a living marketplace and market trade in Sweden and not least that we have one that means that all those who do the right thing and pay taxes just as you should not be eliminated by others who do not. That's exactly why we have these cash registers.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-259	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me when the government will initiate an evaluation of the chemical tax, what directives such an evaluation will have and whether the evaluation, in addition to environmental aspects, will also study, for example, the effects on employment in Sweden. First of all, I would like to point out that the main purpose of the chemical tax is to reduce the supply of dangerous substances to people's home environment and thus protect human health. Boriana Åberg points out that an evaluation of the chemicals tax, made by the Swedish Trade Investigation Institute, shows that the introduction of the tax has led to increased administrative work and fewer jobs in the electronics industry as a result of increased private imports and foreign trade. Commercial Investigative Institute's assumptions differ from the assumptions made by the government public investigation that submitted the proposal on the tax on chemicals in certain electronics. It considered that foreign e-commerce would increase by 0.4 percentage points as a result of the tax. Regeri ngen makes no other assessment than the investigation, and the Swedish Trade Investigation Institute has not presented any evidence that alters that assessment. Tax revenues from the chemical tax amounted to approximately SEK 1.4 billion in 2018. The estimate of tax revenues made by the Chemical Tax Survey of SEK 2.4 billion was adjusted for the government's introduction of the tax, mainly due to a partially modified design of the tax. However, revenues were also overestimated in the Government proposal. This is explained by the lack of input data as well as difficulties in estimating the tax revenues of this brand new tax, which meant that a number of assumptions had to be made. Parliament has announced to the government that the chemical tax should be evaluated. The question is being prepared in the Government Office. It is still too early to comment on when such an evaluation can take place and how best to design it.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-264	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I find it outrageous that the government is planning to increase the chemical tax without evaluating its effects. In this way, the Government defies the Riksdag's announcement of an evaluation and also the reminder of that announcement. Last week there was a letter from the government stating that it is too early to evaluate the chemical tax. But how can you proceed with an increase when you think it is too early to evaluate and when you do not know what the results of the tax are? Yet you want to do it. I would like to remind you that before the tax was introduced, the criticism was massive from all bodies – business, of course, but also the Tax Agency and customs. I don't think it was possible to find anyone who was in favour of this treasure. The evaluation carried out by the Swedish Trade Investigation Institute states that the tax does not fulfil its purpose or have any positive effect at all. On the contrary, it has many negative effects. I will tell you about them in my next speech. The Minister says in his reply that the purpose of the tax was to reduce the hazardous substances in our homes and workplaces. It's a legitimate purpose. Unfortunately, there is no evidence whatsoever that this is the case. The fact is that there is no evidence whatsoever that flame retardants found in our electronic products or appliances can be spread in the home environment just because they are there. If the environmental impact is sought, the result was exactly the opposite. People buy their electronic goods and appliances online instead. You buy foreign products that do not always correspond to the Swedish security classifications. There will be considerably more transport, as manufacturers have their stocks abroad. In addition, it obviously damages Swedish trade. I would like to say that this is symbolic policy of the worst kind. This is a penalty tax on Swedish trade. If we are going to go back to talking about the environmental benefits, this tax is also against the idea of the circular economy that the government claims to want to pursue. It also goes against the UN targets for sustainable consumption and production. The tax means that retailers of second-hand products have to pay the tax once more – the goods are taxed twice. It makes them less attractive to sell, and instead they end up in the dump. Fully useful, modern computers and other things end up there instead of going to someone who is in need and cannot afford to buy anything new. It's not environmentally friendly.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-271	Madam President, I would like I could not help but enter this debate. This will be such an incredibly clear example of what happens when Sweden alone comes up with different forms of taxation to solve problems. People then easily move these tax solutions through, for example, direct imports or, as in the case of air taxes, by moving departures to another country. There are so many examples that we in Sweden believe that with our own small tax solution we will fix a problem. It's gonna be very strange. Boriana Åberg quite clearly touched on the environmental impact of this – everything from the second-hand thing that may not be profitable to sell so that you scrap it instead and build up a scrapberg, to we get a lot of additional transport. Total environmental benefits do not exist. How many refrain from buying an electronic product simply because the chemicals are taxed? It is not possible because these goods are usually made according to an international standard and the chemicals are present in the products. It is not that you can choose a product with chemicals in it or one without chemicals in it, but you have to choose the product that exists, and then there are chemicals in it. The consumer cannot therefore make an active choice between different products. It's not working either. This is just one example of introducing a tax without first thinking about why and what the meaning of it is. You do it to get more money. It is the classic model, especially for the Social Democrats, that you tax everything that is available as much as possible so that you get as much money as possible. That's just the driving force. Magdalena Andersson himself said that the tax is bringing in much less money than they thought it would in the first place. It may not be surprising, for it is because people import these goods themselves instead. Then we take out more electronics stores and others in the retail sector, and then people become unemployed and the stores are empty. What the government does is simply to knock away parts of the Swedish business community and also to pick off the Swedish people more tax money. That's the only benefit of this. There is no environmental benefit.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-276	Madam President, I would like The purpose of this tax is to reduce dangerous substances in people's local environment, in the home environment. The aim is therefore to steer consumption away from products containing highly dangerous substances against products which do not contain as much dangerous substances. This means that products that do not have very dangerous substances can have a tax reduction of up to 90%. So it is not at all that Jan Ericson says that people should refrain from buying. The purpose is to control people so that they buy the right things. One can, however, have a relevant point of view. That's if this treasure is governing enough. The government has judged that it is not. That is why we also believe that it needs to be increased. At the same time, the new tax on a mobile phone will also be relatively low. As I said, the aim is to steer towards the products that can receive the reduced tax. Jan Ericson says that Sweden is alone in making this up, and that is why it is bad. Let me ask Jan Ericson, then, what proposals the Moderates have put forward at European or global level precisely with regard to a chemical tax.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-279	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister how it will go to direct people towards buying the right things when those things do not exist. Flame retardants are needed to prevent TVs, computers and other things from starting to burn. The Swedish tax does not affect global production in the least. Large multinationals produce these electronic goods or appliances. The Tax Agency itself wrote in its referral that a tax on the domestic market has no governing effect on the design of the products. Rather, it is much better to introduce instruments at EU level that steer away from dangerous chemicals. The minister asked what the Moderates have done. Unfortunately, it is not the Moderates who are in government. The Social Democrats, who run together with their cooperation parties, do so. That is why the question goes back. How should production be directed towards the use of non-hazardous substances? And what initiative does the Minister intend to take in Europe to make it a reality? I have to answer the question of the tax reduction for goods that do not contain bromine, chlorine or phosphorus compounds. It's very difficult. It also creates a lot of administrative work, both for customs and for entrepreneurs. I will read a quote from an entrepreneur: If the goods are taxable, we must find out the weight of the goods including any accompanying accessories – a task that is not necessarily listed with the supplier as Sweden is the only market that uses such a task. It was hard enough reading. It's even harder to find out. People simply ignore asking for the reduction and choose instead to pay. The tax is not imposed on the final consumer. Our electronics companies are so competitive that they choose to cover some themselves. When new products come, they don't get as expensive as they should be, and the business itself or the chain goes at a loss. What the minister said is true. The government made an incorrect estimate that the chemical tax would raise 2.4 billion. The minister said it was 1.4 billion instead. But it didn't. Revenues were even lower than that. It should also be expected that the tax will have consequential effects, such as foregone VAT revenue due to loss of sales and reduced corporate tax due to lower profits. Thus, the net effect of the Nitial Tax was SEK 200 million.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-284	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance asked me what taxes the Moderates have driven at global and EU level. We haven't. It's not our thing. We don't have global taxes today. Neither should we, although I understand that a large global tax authority that can tax the whole world may be the Finance Minister's wet dream. Perhaps it would be a Swedish Director-General. We're the best at picking out as much money as possible from people. But I don't think we should go that way. I don't think it's very good. These treasures are not just a blow to the air. There's a serious backside. We talk a lot about that the whole of Sweden should live, that we should have a countryside that works and so on. A major concern today is that large parts of the shop network in rural areas are being knocked out. Smaller towns lose a lot of service. This contributes to that. It's a little piece of the puzzle. Lonely, it does not lead to a shop being destroyed. However, for a store that today has problems with its turnover and just keeps its nose above water, this kind of thing, which makes even more people import goods directly or buy in other ways, can be the last thing that leads to being forced to close the store. We abolished the overindexation of the petrol tax, which Magdalena Andersson wants to put back. This would make it even more expensive for rural people to get to their local shopping centre. It also leads to more people choosing to shop online rather than in stores. Everything helps to destroy the countryside. This calls Magdalena Andersson a green tax exchange. I call it a green tax increase. I would like to hear from Magdalena Andersson what income taxes she wants to reduce to compensate households for this green tax increase.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-289	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson's criticism of the chemical tax is that it is bad that it only happens at the Swedish level. But it does not want to do so either at European or global level. Then tell me the truth, Jan Ericson! You're against a chemical tax. In this way it is moderate politics. What part of environmental policy have the Moderates ever been enthusiastic about? No one. Celebrity talks sometimes talk about climate change and environmental policy. But as soon as you have the opportunity to do something in practice, you slaughter the environmental budget. We last saw that in the napkin sketch to the budget. Anyone who wants to take responsibility for the future should not vote for the Moderates. The green tax exchange will bring the government back to Parliament. We will tell you what taxes we want to raise but also what taxes we want to lower. We will lower as much taxes as we will raise. We will come back to Parliament in this regard. However, I share Jan Ericson's view that it is extremely important that the whole of Sweden should live and that there should be good opportunities to operate throughout the country. I am therefore very concerned about the outcome of the Moderate and Christian Democrats' budget. It means that Arbetsförmedlingen closes offices all over the country. I think that many councillors are much more concerned about that than the chemical tax. Boriana Åberg believes that this treasure would have brought in 2.4 billion. That's what the investigation suggested. But after the investigation was completed, the government made a series of adjustments. Among other things, no taxation was introduced on PVC coatings and additively added phosphorous compounds are taxed more lightly. The highest rate of deduction was increased from 75 to 90 per cent. In the bill, therefore, it was not estimated that the tax would withdraw some 2.4 billion.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-294	Madam President, I would like The chemical tax, aviation tax and other so-called environmental taxes are not environmental policies. Moderates invest in their policies in effective measures where they are needed. It is much better than all kinds of symbolic policies that this government is engaged in. Apart from being counterproductive to the environment, this tax is also very damaging to the number of jobs. In particular, in the case of jobs for workers who are not very well qualified and are mostly engaged in trade, it has previously been estimated – at the current level of taxation and before the announced increase – that the number will fall by between 600 and 1500. With the planned increase, jobs of between 200 and 500 people are forecasted. It is about people who lose their job and who are not able to start working elsewhere, as those in the Ministry of Finance's PMs are proposed to do. This is a trauma to the individual. It's hard to find a job. All this should also be taken into account. That's why I asked a question about this in my interpellation. Should the investigation, once established, also take into account the socio-economic effects which are significant and unfortunately negative? I hope it will be added as soon as possible.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-297	Madam President, I would like Before drawing too far-reaching conclusions from the employment effects of the tax, we will probably make the evaluation that Parliament has commissioned and which the government will also deliver. We do not yet know whether we will have the effects highlighted by Boriana Åberg. It sounds to her like they've already happened here and now. I think it would be good if we first carried out the evaluation. It is symptomatic that the Moderates are making interpellations about various environmental management measures. The Moderates are one of the parties in the Swedish Parliament that is least interested in taking the responsibility of our generation to hand over a planet to future generations as well. We have a Swedish role model, Greta Thunberg, which has now inspired thousands of school students around the world to demonstrate in order for us politicians to take the necessary responsibility to save the climate and the environment. I, as a Social Democrat, want us to do this. Therefore, we will make sure to make improvements in several of the areas where the Moderates slaughtered the climate measures imposed by the previous government. We will ensure that we assume our responsibility for the global transition. We will be a leading nation in this and be a source of inspiration to other countries instead of dragging our feet in the way we have seen clear expression in moderate politics. This government wants to take responsibility for future generations and will do so with the support of Parliament through our proposals. I know the Moderates will vote no, but anyone who believes in our children and their future will vote yes.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-301	Madam President, I would like Ali Esbati has asked me whether it is my view that black security services are common today and that RUT deductions should help to reduce such a problem. He has also asked me whether it is my view that security services and the like are particularly suitable areas for bringing in people who are currently far from the labour market. Tony Haddou has asked me whether it is my view that a unilateral focus on protection and control creates security in society and that this should be done by private companies creating profits through our common tax funds. He has also asked me whether it is my view that RUT deductions for security services are socially beneficial and, if so, how it would even out the current economic gap. Part of the government's policy is based on the January agreement, which is a substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. Ali Esbatis and Tony Haddous's questions are raised in the light of the part of the January Agreement which provides for an investigation into the RUT deduction to be set up. The investigation will examine, inter alia, the extension of the RUT deduction to laundry, removal, collection and security services. In the area of security services, there are also simpler services that can both provide greater security and increase employment. There is no agreement on RUT deduction for security services in the January Agreement. A directive for the investigation is currently being prepared within the Government Office.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-304	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer that was a more or less elegant way to completely avoid the question! My questions are about the strange thing that is called the safety-RUT. I exemplified the questions with security services and the like. The Minister notes that the agreement between the Government and the Centre Party and the Liberals is so vague that one does not really know what these security-building services should be about, and therefore she cannot really answer the questions. This doesn't make any sense. Of course, the problems with the policy that the government has announced are not about whether the activities are to be carried out by someone who can be a security guard, a parking guard or a security guard or someone who also lacks that kind of training. I may have to repeat the questions and rephrase them a little so that hopefully they will be vague enough to give me answers. First of all, the whole RUT concept, which relates to tax subsidies aimed at certain types of services connected with the home, has been sold to a very large extent politically and rhetorically by saying that these services would still be paid for but be done outside the tax system, in people's mouths called undeclared work. Although it is difficult to provide evidence that the current regulatory framework has already helped in this respect, the question arises as to whether there is reason to believe that these arguments can be upheld in the further extension of these subsidies to more or less arbitrary areas. For example, the government suspects that there is a significant social problem with black watchers of various kinds that would somehow be induced to work white instead. If we are not to talk specifically about guardians, we should instead ask ourselves whether there are other types of services that will provide this increased security, if we discuss on the basis of the given premises. It is not easy to know what kind of jobs these supposedly protective subsidies are going to do. You may have to go to the legal sources as best you can, in this case the imaginative movements of the Center Party on these issues. There you can read that they are in the supervision of the home on travel or absence for other reasons. Of course, it does not have to be guardians who do this. It may be someone who comes and twitches the door and see if someone is still at home or if it is locked or someone is watering the flowers for you. This will create security. If this is the case and that is what it is all about, I wonder whether this is reasonable. Are the costs of this type of inspection and irrigation activities such that it should be subject to tax subsidies? And if so, does it amount to such sums that helping further with tax systems could have a significant positive impact on employment and the economy? My second question was whether this is the kind of activity that is supposed to be a realisation of the so-called simple jobs that the new government's new partners have been nagging a lot about. There are a few different situations when you think of trained guards or people in general who are supposed to water the flowers of significantly better-treated homeowners who are on a long vacation. But it would certainly be relevant to know whether this is more generally the type of labour market that the Minister of Finance is looking forward to subsidising with general tax revenue. That is what I think it would be interesting to get at least a hum about. What are the intentions of the government with what has now been said to go forward in some form?
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-311	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance is very good at not answering the questions. Nevertheless, I would like to start by thanking the Minister of Finance for his reply – or it was actually not much of a response, more than an investigation to be set up and a reference to the government's policy based on the January agreement. We already know that. But it is clear that an increased RUT deduction is part of the substantial right turn the government makes in tax policy. Labour market policies are used which have a total negative redistributive effect. There are several reasons why we ask our questions, not least that our common tax funds were spent year after year on private consumption and private investment for the part that is best placed. The Swedish Tax Agency's own statistics clearly show that the group of high income recipients is over-represented among those who so far have used the RUT deduction, while the proportion of the population with the lowest income is barely found in those statistics. The tax subsidy is clearly directed towards the well-off target group, which is increasingly exploiting the services and increasing the value of their home and increasing their own welfare. Is this connected, for example, with security services and someone watering the flowers and having it as supervision? Could we get a hum of what this is all about? What we highlight in our interpellations also relates to the issue of inequality and why the state should continue to give coupons to those who are best placed. We already know the result of this misallocation of tax resources. In my hometown of Gothenburg, this means an economic transfer via the tax bill from, for example, a household in Bergsjön to a family in the wealthy Långedrag. An investigation that will look at how to expand that system does not improve, for that is fundamentally wrong. At the same time, in the same city, recent safety surveys show that those living in poorer areas, especially women, are the most exposed to insecurity. Madam President, I would like We did not really get an answer on the views of the Minister for Finance, but she touched on my second question whether it is her view that the RUT deduction for security services is socially beneficial and in what way it would even out the current economic divides. The extension, which is clearly to be investigated, is associated with laundry, removal, collection and security services. Do these services help in any way to close the financial gap? Is it even reasonable to subsidise them as labour market measures when we know who is overusing the deductions most? As far as security services are concerned, the security industry, which is probably celebrating right now, has driven its services to be included in the RUT deduction. Involvement of the security industry generally increases the risk that residential and residential areas will build up their own security, for which tenants on the other side of the city will pay for. At the same time, the January agreement states that it wants to close the current economic gap. Then it would be appropriate for society's public tax resources to go to proper security-building measures as needed, rather than rich areas to receive even more subsidies. Insecure itself is already a class issue, and if private individuals buy so-called security services through government vouchers, inequalities and inequalities between people will increase further. It is not that the vulnerability to crime, for example, increases within the community group that buys RUT services – quite the opposite. Insecureness is increasing among the most socially vulnerable. In this area, we would have preferred the Minister of Finance to invest.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-320	Madam President, I would like The question is whether black guards are a major problem that needs to be resolved. No, I don't see black guards being a big problem. This is about something else. As the interpellants point out, it has been exemplified by being able to make sure that someone is looking at the house if someone is away on vacation, honeymoon, 50th anniversary trip or whatever it may be. It may be about watering the flowers, checking the mail and picking out the mailbox if the cancellation of the newspaper has not worked. I cannot answer exactly what will be included yet because we are going to set up an investigation to see how this could be done. Is this an appropriate job to channel people away from the labour market? Yeah, it could be. Looking at a house, helping to water flowers and pick up the mail – yes, it can be a good first step into the labour market for someone who is far from the labour market. I certainly do. I do not believe that this is where the great masses in Sweden will work in the future. We are investing heavily in schools and higher education and are expanding the knowledge boost in order for Sweden to continue to be a leading nation with high growth, equality and good conditions for all people. That is, of course, where we should invest the great resources. At the same time, we should not turn a blind eye to the fact that there are people in Sweden who are currently far from the labour market, who may have come here late in life and have little or no education with them in their luggage. Different forms of simpler work can be a way into the labour market even for those people, and that is of course also important.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-325	Madam President, I would like We're approaching the core of the matter. There is now a 73-point programme in which the government parties have agreed with the Centre Party and the Liberals on a number of things to be implemented. You have to be humbled by the fact that this is a delicate task. If you have a 73-point program, it can sneak in a few things that are a little strange. But now we are not really in that situation. We see, if we look at this document, that it risks, in a very far-reaching way, leading to an active deepening of one of our biggest social problems, namely, large gaps between rich and poor. As far as RUT services are concerned, there will be almost parodic class politics. I also find it a little laughable to look at the examples in this world. You should not just have a situation where it is set in the system that people who are newly arrived or for other reasons have low income should go and water the flowers of someone who is at the 50th birthday party and that it should be part of the Swedish labour market, after that there are so many who are at 50 ‐ annual parties all the time. In fact, I find that quite provocative. Especially provocative is it if you look at what other things are mentioned in similar contexts, not under the term "security-RUT" but under other parts of the extended RUT deduction. Both the Christian Democrats and the Center Party, which are now part of the agreement, talk about planting plants in the garden and the removal of garden waste but also about moving home effects within the same dwelling. I have to say that I think there are quite few people in my acquaintances who have that problem – that you have such a large apartment that you have to hire someone else to move things within. We're talking about moving a piano from one wing to the other. If one now has such a piano and a home that is so large that it requires hired labor to move it, one should reasonably also be able to afford to pay the full price for it. That's what we're talking about. It shall not be prohibited for anyone to come and water the flowers of anyone else. Should we say, with tax revenue, which is also collected from the new arrivals who have entered the labour market, that h is a service that we want to support? We want more of this in our society, and we also want you who can afford to pay for it to get a tax subsidy. It is not only problematic but quite provocative. Surely I could have taken it a little more with patience if it were the case that all the 72 other points pointed in a different direction, even though the Center Party's concern for wing owners made them have a small amount of money. But it's not like that. The other points are also about reducing the tax burden on the richest, removing parts of what is the social support that we all need and weakening the rights of people in the labour market in general in society. Then the safety-RUT appears in a slightly different light. I will come back to the next speech with some conclusions.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-334	Madam President, I would like I'm trying to take this back a little bit to the basic problem. It is clear that there are far too many points in the 73-point programme that are going in the wrong direction. Despite the fact that we have an investigation, we are talking about private companies that want to profit from our common tax funds, which are obviously going to go to private companies. For example, if we had put a stop to profits in welfare, the outcome of such an investigation would probably have been different. It is not this government's desire. From a distributional policy perspective, tax deductions for security services is a rather crazy idea. Or rather, it's a great idea if you're a homeowner at Lidingö. Then I'm sure it's a great idea. But, of course, these services will not be used by those most in need of such services in general, or by tax deductions, to gain security in their daily lives. That is also what makes it such a clear class issue, where the safety-RUT will increase the gap even more than before. How it would go with the original proposal if RUT is a riddle. For example, if security is to be about alarms and the investigation shows something like that, you wonder: What does that have to do with the original? What kind of alarm are people installing these days? The original thing is that the rich need to put together the so-called life puzzle. I think they can still handle it without a first-aid kit in the form of even more deductions. Finally, one wonders what will result from such extensions of tax subsidies. Is it something that the Danderyds or Vellinge residents can do themselves without receiving a grant for it? I described earlier that it is fundamentally wrong. The issue of security must go hand in hand with, for example, equal living conditions and a general well-being that can be trusted. This should not be done by giving already wealthy people even more money in their wallets thanks to another tax credit for private and individual welfare. What does the Minister of Finance expect such an investigation to land in? The basis remains targeted grants for high-income earners. It's very accurate. Enlargement risks becoming even more a neoliberal experiment at the expense of ordinary wage earners.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-341	Madam President, I would like I do not share the view that the 73-point programme does not contain equality policy. Equality policy contains several elements. An enlarged security-RUT is not something that would make a greater impression on the overall distribution in society. On the other hand, several of the other measures that we have in the January agreement are important for us to be able to have a cohesive society. One of the most important things that I myself am passionate about is the Commission's proposal, which I have said we will implement. The School Commission gathered the entire expertise in this area to see: How can we create a more equal school? There is no better way to create an equal society than to ensure that every child, every pupil, who attends Swedish school, will receive the support they need to bring with them the knowledge that is necessary to manage in the labour market. We will implement that proposal. In addition, we will carry out the major investment in the welfare billions that have begun. There we want to increase state subsidies by EUR 5 billion a year during the term of office. In addition, efforts are being made to address mental health problems, not least among young people. It is something that affects too many young people at present, and it also affects unequally. There is also an investment in cancer care and ambulance care. We have a wide range of efforts precisely to ensure the security of our general well-being. We also have suggestions for strengthening families with children through a family week. We want to improve for the most deprived pensioners and also for those pensioners who have worked a very long working life but who still receive a very low pension. These are important areas of general welfare for all of us to be safe. In addition, we have important initiatives for more people to get into work. It is a major economic divide and a great inequality between people who have a job and people who do not have a job. Among other things, we want to make further efforts to expand the knowledge boost so that more people bring their professional skills with them to enter the labour market but also to get more new arrivals into work.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-346	Madam President, I would like Politics is to want but also to choose. Here the Social Democrats and the government have made the choice to land in an agreement that I still think is very clear about where to take Sweden. It is not in a more equal direction and not in a direction where the major serious societal problems and challenges that we have are getting good solutions. This applies to equality, but it also applies to the money that leaks from our common welfare to commercial companies and how it changes the possibility of making the whole welfare into everyone's welfare and not into a cash cow for the commercial companies. There are also several other areas where it is indeed the case that the 73-point program points in the completely wrong direction. Apart from choosing between concrete proposals, policy is a matter of choosing whose side you stand on. How do people in society feel that they are viewed from the government and parliament? I believe that the proposal that the Minister for Finance is still defending here is a proposal that almost parody says to the people who are working hard today to make the money and life go together that it is not on their side at least the government stands with the proposals. It is on the side that has problems moving wings between different parts of its property. I think that is a serious problem in itself.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-350	Madam President, I would like It sounded very good with the January agreement. One might ask when such suggestions arise: What is equal when newly married rich people should have someone watering their flowers when they are on a honeymoon when, for example, the children of Angered do not even get a summer vacation card to get to the beach in the same city? It's not equal at all. As long as politics is rigged for the richest, inequality will increase. We have gone from being one of the countries whose tax systems are most advantageous to having the least redistributive tax system among the core EU countries. At the same time, we have growing capital income that will be concentrated in few people. This proposal goes in the very opposite direction in terms of smoothing out the effects. Now it is also proposed that rich people should receive even more sums in even more deductions. We have lifted this up and explained how distorted it is. It would be, as simple as it sounds, more reasonable to level the gaps and injustices than to distribute money from people with ordinary incomes to the very richest. Moreover, this is a waste of our common funds. We believe that these should be used to create jobs in welfare and to, for example, strengthen home care or social services in the country's municipalities that actually need it. I think they need the money more than anyone who should have deductions for someone else to water the flowers while the person is on vacation.
i-c8ae589ba08f50a2-354	Madam President, I would like I think we should be careful when talking about the costs of the RUT deduction. The evaluations that have been carried out indicate that this does not really entail any costs, as there are many services that would otherwise either not have happened or that would have been black but would have turned white in this way. This means that the costs of the RUT deductions are not actually very high. However, when looking at extending the RUT deductions, it is of course important to ensure that it is the same type of services so that it has the same positive effect as the current RUT deductions have had. Tony Haddou mentioned the fact that the Moderates and Christian Democrats, supported by the Swedish Democrats, removed the toll-free bus cards that had previously been introduced. I, too, regret this. I thought it was a fantastic reform that was carried out during the last parliamentary term. I was proud to be able to present it to the Swedish parliament, and I know that this was an important issue for the Left Party. I think it is important that our young people have the opportunity to take the bus to go swimming in the summer, so I regret that they chose to withdraw that investment and many other important investments. We will now set up a study to review how such a proposal can be drafted. I look forward to forthcoming debates on this and other subjects.
