i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-2	Madam President, I would like I have been instructed by the committee to state what we wish the House to decide on a review of the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, and we agree. The Constitutional Committee, with the support of its right of initiative, proposes an announcement to the Riksdag Board regarding a review of the Parliamentary Ombudsmen. I urge the Parliament to support what the committee proposes. I'll say a few words about what the JO is. The JO office was established already in 1809 when the new Constitution stipulated that the Riksdag should appoint a man for legal knowledge and excellent integrity known as its representative to supervise that judges and officials lived according to the laws. Of course, the JO has changed a lot since then, but the basic spirit remains. Several reforms of the JO office have been carried out in the 20th century. The latest inquiry into the office was carried out in the early 1980s, and the investigation left its report in 1985. On a proposal from the Constitutional Committee, the Parliament decided that the four ombudsmen regime should be maintained, and at the same time the title of the Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman was introduced so that the JO office would become more coherent and have a clearer leadership. The overall legal regulation of JO's activities is based on the form of government which refers to the Parliamentary Order and other legislation. Madam President, I would like The main purpose of the activities of the JO is to promote legal certainty. In particular, the JO shall ensure that public authorities and courts comply with the provisions of the government form on impartiality and objectivity and that public activities do not infringe the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. The question of a review of the JO office has been raised in various contexts at the KU for a long time. Since the major review of the JO was carried out in the mid-1980s, the activities of the JO and its conditions have changed in several respects. The committee has identified a need for a broad review of the JO. Madam President, I would like I would like to stress that the committee notes that the JO is basically a well-functioning institution. The starting point for the investigation should therefore be to preserve the basic mission and structure of the JO Office. In the report, the committee points to the need for review and summarises the framework of the investigation mission by describing the relevant issues and boundaries under four headings: Madam President, I would like There's a lot to say and describe, but time doesn't allow me to go through the whole mission in detail. Nevertheless, I would like to draw the House's attention to one of the most fundamental issues. This concerns the independence and institutional independence of the Parliamentary Ombudsmen. When the office was set up in connection with the creation of the 1809 form of government, the primary aim was to establish supervision in the interests of the citizens who were completely independent and independent of the ruling power. Since then, the JO has been, and still is, a guarantor of the rule of law for its citizens. It is therefore crucial that the institutional independence of the JO Office is maintained and safeguarded. JO shall be free from the public administration in general, and independence shall continue to apply in relation to the Riksdag. The committee believes that the investigation should analyse and assess whether the independence of the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the independence of the Parliamentary Ombudsmen are fully satisfied by the current legal framework and decide whether constitutional changes are necessary. The investigation shall pay particular attention to the importance of ensuring the constitutional endurance of the JO, i.e. carrying out over time the control function based in the form of government. The other areas concern first the mission to look at the supervisory mission, supervisory areas and the extraordinary supervisory mission. We also have international activities, which have increased in scope, and so-called Opcat operations. When it comes to operations, we want the investigation to look further at the case management as the JO has received an increasing number of notifications in recent years. We also want it to look at how digital development affects its operations. With regard to the organisation, the committee considers that the investigation should not look at the number of Ombudsmen. We do not see reasons for reducing the number, but we do not see grounds for increasing the number of Ombudsmen. Madam President, I would like In addition to all the issues set out in the report, the investigation may also analyse and make proposals on other related issues relating to the office. The investigation shall not make proposals which entail constitutional changes. The investigation should be carried out within the framework of a parliamentary committee. Madam President, I would like I would like to stress here that it is important for the Committee to be given the necessary conditions to be able to carry out a thorough review. It needs to be given sufficient resources and also time for work. At the same time, however, the focus should be that the investigation should be presented before the end of the current term of office. Madam President, I would like Once again, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-15	Madam President, I would like We will now discuss the judiciary and its funding for next year. We are not quite there at New Year's, but you can still take the opportunity to look back at the year that has been and note that it has been a very turbulent year – unfortunately for the wrong reasons, with shootings and blasts. The annual statistics are not yet fully compiled, but we are, unfortunately, moving towards another record year in terms of the number of shootings in our country. Explosives seem to occur so often now that I think many people wake up in the morning and are not appalled by the fact that it has exploded somewhere tonight but rather the question arises where in Sweden it has been blown up last night. This is a terrible development, I would say. This type of thing, which actually doesn't belong in Sweden, has unfortunately become some kind of everyday food in Sweden 2019. The Committee on Justice has recently discussed the situation we have with regard to people who pose a threat to our country's security and move on our streets, even though they are condemned to expulsion and should not really be in Sweden. Yet they continue to be here because the legislation has not been followed, has not changed and does not face the new kind of threats and realities that we unfortunately experience. It is impossible to talk about this autumn without also noting that we Moderates took the initiative for what was then described as gang talks. I think it was a good ambition to try to see if it was possible to agree on important reforms here and now. There were several parties that were involved. Not everyone was allowed to participate, but we who were involved made a serious attempt to see if it was possible to produce something that meets the serious development that we are now seeing. However, it was simply the – at least in my opinion – that what the government chose to put on the table was far from enough to deal with the shootings and blasts, the gang crime and the insecurity we now see emerging. It simply did not become possible for us Moderates to sign something that we do not believe will be enough. Now we're aiming for 2020. It is the area of funding that is to be debated here today. It can be said that this is an area facing major challenges. We Moderates put in our budget a total of 3.2 billion more to the entire judiciary next year. That is 2.5 billion more than the government and its cooperation parties have chosen to allocate in their budget. The Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Prosecutor's Office, the Swedish Criminal Service, the Swedish Courts and the Swedish crime victims – all of them get more money with the Moderates than with the government. There is no area in this field of funding that receives more money with the government in relation to what we Moderates have presented. Politics is easy when you don't have to choose, when you can promise everything to everyone. We Moderates have made tough priorities in our budget. Madam President, I would like We don't allocate billions to free years. We do not allocate billions to additional holiday days. We do not allocate billions to reducing the supply requirement for family migration. Instead, we spend the money on things that we really think are important in the country in which we are now living, where the judiciary is, of course, a very large part. How reasonable is it, for example, that next year aid is twice as large as the amount spent on the police, in the light of the new insecurity that we see emerging? Madam President, I would like I believe that this money is needed because the situation is strained. The biggest investment in our budget, which amounts to almost SEK 2 billion, is an investment of 2,000 state security guards, starting next year. The aim of this initiative is to bridge the gap in police recruitment. In fact, when we meet in this Chamber today, we have in principle as many – or perhaps just as few – police officers as we had when the Alliance Government handed over power in 2014. Despite a sharp increase in the population, despite the increase in the number of shootings and explosions and the fact that insecurity has increased very strongly, the police are not really more now. There will be more, but this will also take time. We also see problems with defection and with police officers who unfortunately choose to leave their job prematurely. How do you deal with that situation? We Moderates, for example, point to a targeted wage effort – to make police training paid and to increase the attractiveness of such an important police profession. But we also believe that, for a limited period of time, state security guards can play a major role by working security-building in streets and squares and by changing legislation so that these security guards can also relieve the police of their important work. The first thing that the chief police officer pointed out during this autumn's gang talks – to free up police resources and to increase capabilities here and now – was that we should ensure that our police officers can do what they are trained for and what they want to do. For example, they should not become any kind of travelling activity for the Prison Service. You can also go on and think about transportation to and from the metro in Stockholm, where we are today. We believe that security guards can play a very large and important role, so that the police can instead concentrate on what they are trained for, on what only they can do and on what they actually want to do in society. Madam President, I would like In addition, as I mentioned, we are allocating additional funds to the Security Service. We believe that this is justified in the light of the regrettable fact that there are now security threats that are moving out in society. These funds can be used both to increase and improve the important investigative work and to monitor different types of security threats in a different way than at present, pending the execution of expulsions. We from the Moderates have pointed out several important things that we think you need to do. For example, we are talking about a system of diplomatic guarantees, about changing LSU legislation and about increasing the possibility of placing people in detention for a longer period of time. We also allocate additional funds to the Swedish Courts. It is regrettable that there is now a situation in which many courts are actually on their knees and where the influx of cases is so large that we simply cannot cope with it. I think it is possible to put a question mark on whether there is even a saving in this. We know that these long lead times – these waiting times – are not only bad for the victims, who have to wait a very long time to get redress, but that it is also costly to have these queues, just as it is in a wide range of other sectors of society. Madam President, I would like I would ask you to come back in a little while, subject to the reservation which I intend to endorse.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-36	Madam President, I would like The half-life of moderate positions has become shorter and shorter. We have seen great reversals in terms of defence, energy policy, asylum policy, labour market policy, constitutional issues, labour immigration and justice policy. The only thing you really stand for as moderate is the job tax deductions. In May, a major moderate change took place in an area of the EU electoral movement. It was not given as much space as many of the people I mentioned earlier, but perhaps it should have been given it. It's about Eppo, the prosecutor's office. The Moderates went from saying no entirely to the Eppo that has been discussed – i.e. a European Public Prosecutor's Office who collaborates on grant crimes in relation to EU funds – to advocating an Eppo that would be substantially larger and take tasks that are central to the Swedish legal system, such as the fight against terrorism. This was not requested by anyone else. Madam President, I would like The question I would like to ask the Moderates is whether it is really so wise to advocate unqualifiedly joining an Eppo that is so much greater than what has been discussed without even looking at the consequences in advance.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-40	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Rasmus Ling! This matter of principle can be discussed back and forth. Let me just say that the firmness of principle may not be the very description that I am only thinking of when I am thinking about the Green Party's efforts in the government in recent years. Surely there have been a few areas where one could describe precisely the different positions of the Green Party and changed positions in a different way. Or what about migration policy, to take a concrete example? Rasmus Ling can think about that later, but it is clear that it is always good to sweep clean in front of your own door before blaming others for different things. On the issue of terror, we have a problem that has grown markedly only in recent years. Just read the Security Service reports. There is no single, simple solution to it, but it is about doing several different things at the same time. As I mentioned in my speech, we need both to increase resources for the Security Service and to change the legislation. I would like to call on Rasmus Ling to think about this, for example, with the crime of participation. It has now been several years since we took in hand with the government, which, after all, Rasmus Ling may be said to represent in this discussion, and there is still no such legislation in place. It will take a few more years. Unfortunately, terror is also cross-border very many times. I simply do not think that every country always handles this best alone. I believe that international cooperation will be required in a different way from today, and we believe that this can play an important role. I note that the Prime Minister of the government in which the Green Party participates has also spoken in the same direction. Therefore, I am a little surprised when Rasmus Ling asks me this question. He could put it to the PM instead.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-43	Madam President, I would like We also saw in the gang talks held at the end of summer and early autumn that the Moderates are ready to act without thinking. Notices had been passed about investigating the issue of anonymous witnesses, but in these talks an investigation was not enough. Instead, the idea was to put such a system in place without any consideration. This is not a serious way of acting politically. We have a constitution and a preparatory requirement in Sweden. I think that is a good thing, and the Green Party and the government think that is a good thing. It is in such situations that it turns out to be necessary. We definitely need to cooperate in the field of terrorism, and that is what is happening. It is not serious, however, to drop headlessly in and give powers from the Swedish Prosecutor's Office to a European without considering the consequences.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-46	Madam President, I would like I think we should back up the band a little bit here. It is therefore the Prime Minister of the government in which the Green Party is sitting who has not only made a reversal but has also said on his own accord that Sweden should join this, but even hold a deliberation in the Committee on Justice in which Rasmus Ling is sitting. There about somewhere you can talk about solo games – to just explain in an interview that now Sweden will do this, without even coming to Parliament and asking for a position. Then Rasmus Ling is here talking about the Moderates. Often that's how it sounds from this government. It's always the Moderates' fault. It's always the alliance government's fault. And if it isn't the alliance government's fault, it's Bildt's fault. I am just waiting to hear Arvid Lindman's name come up in the debate. It's always someone else's fault. That's what it sounds like at the Green Party and the Social Democrats. If you cannot and do not want to take responsibility, I think you can leave it to someone else to try instead.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-48	Madam President, I would like We are here to debate the area of expenditure on the judiciary. It is a very important area for many citizens in the country, an area that affects a great many people and which also upsets a great many citizens – not least in view of the fact that we have had a development in our country where the gross violence has escalated, where shootings and explosions have put terror in more and more residential areas and where families have been deprived of their security because of the escalation of crime that has been going on year after year with a red-green government. The allocation to the judiciary is crucial for what kind of capacity our authorities should be able to move with when it comes to both tackling and preventing this type of crime, which upsets so many in our country. What we have seen over the years with the Red-Green Government is that we have had a government that has always underfunded the judiciary in favour of other measures, a government that has always acted late and panicked when something very serious has happened in our country. The Swedish Democrats were the first party in the Swedish parliament to propose in the 2000s that we train more police officers. When we proposed it, you other parties thought it was a little ridiculous. You thought that the Swedish police could work more effectively. That was your proposal based on what it looked like during the last parliamentary term. The Swedish Democrats made a different assessment. We made the assessment that the development that is taking place with uncontrolled migration to Sweden would continue to build the alienation that we have seen emerge in the 21st century. Uncontrolled migration would continue to build on the contradictions that exist between, for example, authorities and those areas where exclusion is allowed to develop. That is also the development we have seen. The Swedish Democrats were right. Today, double staffing is required for ordinary intervention in a vulnerable area compared with other places around our country. When you allow these exclusion areas to grow in the belief that it will lead to growth and a flourishing multicultural culture, it is clear that in the end you will stand there and have to panic and say: Now we need 10 000 more policemen! Now we need this and this! But do you know what we need, Madam President? We need a government that is acting with an insight into how reality works. We need leadership in the Swedish parliament. That is something that we have been completely lacking during the last parliamentary term and at the beginning of this. As in the past, the Swedish Democrats invest more money in the judiciary than the Red-Green Government does. We have, for example, for the Police Authority 2.6 billion more than the government. It is based on an insight: if we are to have more police officers by the end of 2024 and achieve the objectives that even the Social Democrats have set themselves, more action is needed to ensure that the police forces present today stay on duty. We have continued to defect from an authority that is in a strong phase of growth. We have several hundred police officers who end up for reasons other than retirement, at a time when you spend a record amount of money on the police. They do so because they invest in the wrong way in the Police Authority. Our only human being who works at the Police Authority should be very interested in staying there, because the agency has growth. But you bet on the wrong things. We have not listened to the criticism that the police workers have and that they have expressed very clearly. We have a historically poor wage development for Sweden's police officers, in a situation where there are increasing demands on the police who work. You get to work in situations that are much more complicated than they were ten years ago, where you may even risk your family and life, health and safety for doing your everyday job in the most vulnerable areas. This requires policy to see what the problem is. If we are to have 10 000 more employees, where the majority – at least 6 000 or 7 000 – think the Swedish Democrats – are police officers, it is necessary to make a big effort on the problems experienced by our police officers. Respect through salary as well as powers and support from the policy to allow the police to do their job is lacking today from the Red-Green Government. The Swedish Democrats are putting forward a considerably larger investment than any other party in this Assembly on the salary development of Swedish police officers, almost 1 1⁄2 billion, to mention something in the investment we are making at the Swedish Police Authority. Of course, more efforts are needed. We have talked about paid police training and other measures that strengthen the position of police officers in the authority they work for. But we also need to strengthen the rest of the legal chain. We've been talking about the Secret Service for years. We have proposed an extended framework for the Security Service because we have seen that there is a development leading to an increasing number of extremists who pose a threat to our country. Now we have perhaps a hundred people returning from Syria and Iraq and from prisons in Turkey or the like who have been involved in the war of terror in Syria and Iraq on the IS side. These people need to come under the supervision of the Security Service. Of course it takes more people to work on this. It takes between 20 and 30 years of work to keep track of an individual. Then you can start counting on how many are involved. So there are 2 000 extremist Islamists in our country, and a hundred are coming. We cannot even expel those who network in and radicalise these environments and who are foreigners and are in Sweden. We release them on our streets, and they even return to mosques where they pose the greatest security threat and can recruit new individuals who then pose security threats. Of course the Secret Service needs more money. But here we also see a paralysis in the red-green government, which only believes that everything can roll on as usual until something very serious happens. Only then will we hear the red-green government say: now we have to do something! But then it's too late. This is exactly what political developments have been like. The Swedish democrats are acting on time, pointing to obvious shortcomings and threats and saying: This is what we need to do today and not tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or next year. But then comes the red-green government, slowly, once something has happened and says: Now we can do something! But then it's too late. Then the damage is done. The Security Service needs more resources to deal with the security threat that the Red-Green Government has allowed into our country. We also need more money for the Swedish Courts, because we see that the influx of cases will increase. It has already been signalled that the resources required from the Red Green Government are not being provided. This will lead to cases in Sweden's Courts being piled up. People who want to have their cases brought to court will have to wait longer with the policy of the Red Green Government. This is unworthy of our country. We have resources to allocate. We have an opportunity to do this in a satisfactory way so that those who want to process their cases in the courts can also do so in close time to when the crime occurs, because then we know that it will also be the best quality in the trials. We also need to increase safety in the Swedish Courts and develop work on alarm bars and various entrances for plaintiffs and defendants so that when you are on your way in or sitting in a waiting room before the trial begins in the courtroom, you do not have to meet the perpetrator that you have perhaps been subjected to a very serious crime of. This work must begin now. We also have increased funding for Crimea inalsvården, not least in view of the fact that we have had mild penalties, which still means that there is a need for quite a lot more places in prison. Here we have proposed that we must be able to rent prison places in other countries because we have had such a slow government that has never acted and has hoped that punishment in freedom may be the solution that we shall see in the future. We believe that it is important that the occupation of dangerous people continues and that we continue to tighten the penalties in our country. To deal with the situation now that we have had a slow government, we need to start looking at how we can solve this. Rent prison places in other countries! For example, we can allow those who are to be expelled after serving time to sit in another European country. We have also increased the appropriations in every area more than the government has done. It's because we take responsibility for the justice system. We have always taken responsibility and invested in the judiciary when we have seen a government that has always acted too late. In this debate, we cannot influence the framework appropriations available, but I can support the reservation on emergency police behind which the Swedish Democrats are behind.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-70	I would like to remind Members of the agreement that has been reached between the group leaders to limit speaking time to eight minutes.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-71	Madam President, I would like Since 2014, the Government has presented more than 50 punitive measures. What is not presented is any kind of crime prevention, that is, what actually means that crime does not happen at all. We have a government that can only deliver political proposals when it is already too late. There are more policemen than in a very long time, and the penalties have never been this long, yet the shootings are not reduced. For 50 penalties, 50 crime prevention measures are required. What is needed are major efforts to prevent crime, to break the macho culture that breeds violence and shootings and to ensure that the municipalities' social services in any case have a chance to be involved. Real redress is granted to victims of crime if they do not commit a crime at all. The government has completely failed with its tougher-tag policy. For every penalty, a welfare effort must be made. For every cop hired, there must be a social security secretary. Madam President, I would like Small economic gaps are the most crime prevention measures a country can have. Yet the Social Democracy is doing everything to ensure that the economic differences between people do not narrow. With the budget presented by the government together with the Center Party and the Liberals, the municipalities are forced to kneel. Four out of five municipalities save on school. While Sweden's high income earners receive SEK 6 billion in tax cuts, Sweden's 2 million school and preschool children share an investment of over SEK 100 million. That says a lot. The police are in place in our country and are calling for the rest of society to be involved in the fight against crime. With the government's budget, municipalities do not have the resources to implement their crime prevention efforts. It is more important for the government to present penalties and tax reductions than to prevent and strengthen welfare. It does not matter whether the efforts are huge in this particular committee when the government allows high-income people to open a Christmas calendar every day with RUT deductions and tax cuts. If we really want to reduce crime, it is an overall effort to reduce income inequality that needs to be done. Economic policy is the foundation of the whole community. As long as the government refuses to sand and shovel the pavement and only loads up with plaster and morphine in the storeroom, the Left Party will be the rock-hard opposition party. But the day when the government wants to pursue policies that reduce crime in real life, we are in the Left here. Let us start by reducing income gaps and stop saving at school! Madam President, I would like What the Left Party is investing in in the area of justice, as we all know, is not increased punishment and more secret coercive measures. The focus of the Left Party is always on strengthening welfare. However, in Category 4, we are committed to the Prosecution Authority and the courts being able to conduct trials where children have been victims of crime, and these trials should be held within three months. We also want to develop a special treatment programme in the area of healthcare for people who have committed honour-related crime. We want to expand care in order to be able to develop the work of punishment in freedom. Instead of border controls where the police spend considerable resources on controlling people's passports on the Öresund train, we want the border police to work at internal borders to combat thefts and trafficking. With this, I call for reservation 4 and refer to the Left Party budget motion for category 4.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-81	Madam President, I would like There is much to debate in the area of justice policy when we have the budget report from the Committee on Justice on the table today. Combating and prosecuting crime and safeguarding the security and security of citizens is indeed one of the most important core tasks of the state. Everyone has the right to feel safe in everyday life. Reducing crime is the best way to increase security, and there is much to do here. Victims of crime should receive support and help in redress. The success of the judicial system in its main tasks, the investigation of crimes, the arrest of suspects and the prosecution of those responsible, is part of this redress. Unfortunately, we see a number of shortcomings in this area. We have a government that didn't see it coming. The action has also, on a point-by-point, been characterised by slowness. Even when we debate the budget, there are shortcomings in the government's actions and in the government's budget, even though we are doing everything we can not to see them. They would like it to appear that they have the power to act, such as taking various measures. They also call press conferences on things that are already known. The government has presented a budget that is not long-term. For the police's appropriations, no budget is available after 2020. The police salary that we in the KD together with M entered into our budget is now removed. Nor is the police wage scheme being built according to the stairway we proposed with the Moderates. It is serious when 64% of the police believe that salary is the most important issue for whether they should remain in the profession. That's why we both want to maintain a targeted police salary effort and expand it according to our and the Moderate budget reservation that has been reviewed here before. The Christian Democrats also want to see a targeted effort to attract police officers approaching retirement age to stay and to reinstate newly retired police officers. We are convinced that they are an untapped resource when it comes to quickly reaching the target of more police officers. It is remarkable that so little is done to use the experience and skills they possess. The D.A. is underfunded as early as next year. And the courts only get half of what they've asked for. I'm gonna focus on that later. Already in 2018, the courts had difficulty reaching the targets that the government had set for the operation. In the M-KD budget, the D.A. got what they wanted. However, this proved to be insufficient as the rate of return to the target is increasing rapidly. This led to cuts in 2019. The courts will have problems with the mere amount of cases if they do not receive the requested appropriation. The Swedish Courts forecast is that the amount of cases for criminal cases will increase by 35 per cent between 2015 and 2022. Increased waiting times in the courts mean an extension of the time it takes for a victim to get redress. It may also result in costs being passed on to other sectors of society. For example, longer waiting times at the MCA may mean that large projects are delayed and that costs are high. In order for the courts to cope with the issue, judges need to be trained. It has to be done on a continuous basis. Training judges, as we know, takes a long time. They are notaries for two years, go to court for four years and then serve in or outside the courts for a number of years. Staff reductions, as we have now seen and which may be even more needed next year, are very difficult to compensate. The courts also need money for reinforced security work. This is becoming increasingly important in view of the development of violence and the hardened lack of respect for law enforcement authorities by criminals. It is important to see that the judiciary is not just about police efforts to reach 10 000 more police officers. It is also necessary to take the consequences of the efforts made and to extend the entire judiciary. The Christian Democrats therefore want to see just such an extension by providing the Prosecution Authority with additional resources and by strengthening the courts. In our shadow budget, we give them more than they have requested, as we see a need to build more courts in more places than today. Madam President, I would like The prison service is also under a lot of strain. Additional resources are needed both to meet the need for more places and to enable a good environment. A good environment in the prison system is a prerequisite for reintegration and rehabilitation of prisoners. We also want a special unit for young gang members to be set up within the Prison Service and to allocate funds to it in our budget. We do so also in our total budget, for contributions corresponding to these on the National Board of Institutional Affairs. Such units would be required to develop relapse prevention, develop defectors' activities and use personalised programmes to a much greater extent than at present. In our budget we have strong efforts, which are not covered by this area, in social efforts to prevent and combat crime. Everyone knows that crime begins at an early age. Young people are hardly recruited to that environment, but they grow up in it. They grow up to be criminals. That is why social services need to be given much better and more effective tools. We hear alarm reports from the municipality after the municipality that you lack funds but above all tools. We do not know what tools and what measures will be effective. That is what we face in our shadow budget. Our investment in social work amounts to a total of approximately SEK 1 billion. Investing in social services and what I said about penitentiary and the State Department Board are part of this. Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight a proposal which is also bearing fruit in the area we are debating today, namely a strong effort to extend Psychiatric ambulances in the regions. The police last year went out on over 15,000 suicide alarms, according to incident reports in the police reporting system. One was alerted to a place because there was a risk of suicide. This corresponds to two alarms per hour, 24 hours a day, all year round. It is an alarm signal about the mental illness that we see in so many areas. As we are now debating police appropriations, we should also look at how we can ensure that people who are in a very vulnerable situation can get better care by meeting health professionals, trained psychiatric nurses, who can quickly get to the place. Then the police would also be relieved and be able to work with tasks other than caring for people suffering from mental illness. The police should of course be able to be there; there can be violent situations. But we believe that an investment in psychiatric ambulances would also meet the needs of the police in order to be able to work more with the police's main work tasks, which no one else can do. Overall, our shadow budget includes a strong effort to combat crime and the causes of crime.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-99	Madam President, I would like Sweden currently has a major shortage of detention centres and detention centres. When more people are sentenced to longer prison sentences, more places are also required. Building new institutions takes a long time. It requires planning. It takes a place. It requires space, detailed planning and so on. Correctional services expect it to take about ten years from the idea to the institution's completion. It is certainly less time than to build a new nuclear power plant, but it is still quite a long time. In ten years you can also make quite a few changes in the judicial system, such as tightening the penalties. For quite a long time, the Correctional Service has been working to find a place in southern Sweden. In the past, Svedala was caught. There turned out to be a local opinion that was against and wanted to stop the building. They finally did it. A local party was formed, and the Swedish Democrats and Christian Democrats sided with the opponents. They did it. As a result, the Prison Service had to start all over again and lost a couple of years. Madam President, I would like I will not ask Andreas Carlson and the Christian Democrats for all the details of Svedala policy. However, as well as the fact that we politicians are talking about state authorities having well-established contact with the municipalities, in some cases it makes it easier if we politicians at the state level have it with our municipal representatives. My question is: will the Christian Democrats learn from what happened in Svedala and not stop it when they have come a long way?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-103	Madam President, I would like This is interesting. In fact, the government has every opportunity to engage in dialogue with municipalities at an early stage. I know that there are other municipalities in Skåne that have an interest in getting institutional placements. It is remarkable when a representative of a party that forms the government base requires an opposition response on the question of the Prison Service's contacts with the municipalities in connection with establishment. It is clear that there are shortcomings in the government's long-term planning of penitentiary positions. We see this not least in the budget that we are debating today. Of course, I would like to see institutions built in different municipalities, but we have a good principle in Sweden with municipal self-government. It will not be very successful if something is built against the will of municipalities from the state level. However, as I said, there are many willing municipalities. I visited Tidaholmsanstalten earlier this year together with my colleague Ingemar Kihlström. There, representatives of both the municipality and the local business community and the institution management want an extension, but there are obstacles along the way. Let the government, together with the Prison Service, take responsibility for the whole! I do not think that Rasmus Ling imagines that the prison in Svedala would meet the great need that exists here and now and that will also exist in the future in terms of penitentiary care. The question, therefore, is what lessons the government draws from this. Will you think more long-term? Do you have a ten-year plan for the expansion of the prison system, or is it just a dutiful and too late awakening that will shape the government in the future as well? I apologise, but I would like to use the remaining seconds to ask for the approval of reservation 2 which deals with crimes that people are subjected to in their daily lives. That is something that we Christian Democrats also want to prioritise in the future.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-109	Madam President, I would like I am disappointed and a little confused about the answer. Obviously, the Christian Democrats and Andreas Carlson have learned nothing from this process, which I regret. That's what you have to do if this is gonna work next time. There was a very clear and thorough dialogue between the Prison Service and the municipality. There was an interest from Svedala Municipality. But the problem that arose was a late opinion from the Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and a new party. It does not matter how the Correctional Service or the Government will act next time, if at the last moment local Christian Democrats wake up and oppose the whole thing. We have municipal self-government, and we shall have it. But it also requires that we politicians who exist at different levels talk to each other and do not come in and interfere with an important work that has been going on for several years and thus exacerbates an already strained situation.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-111	Madam President, I would like I thank Rasmus Ling. I note that I did not get a single answer to the questions about the government's long-term plan, the view on the expansion of the prison system and why there is a lack of resources in the budget for long-term expansion. We can, of course, discuss various local examples, but the whole thing is flawed when it comes to the government's planning to expand the prison system and also the judiciary, which I was talking about in my main speech. It is deeply alarming that no more than half of what the courts have asked for is given while beating the chest for historically large investments in the police. Rasmus Ling and the government need to take this back and develop a long-term plan. It's going to be the back of the government's budget. Of course we can discuss local examples, but the government needs to take responsibility for the whole country and for the judiciary as a whole to stick together.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-114	Madam President, I would like Sweden is basically a safe country, but we also have problems that need to be met with strength. The development of crime in Sweden is one of these. Over time, organized crime has grown. The number of vulnerable residential areas has increased. Shooting and open drug trafficking are problems we have not yet managed to crack. In addition, last year 22 women were killed by a man they previously loved. Many times it happened in silence without major social debate. Every act of violence is one too many. Sweden should be a safe country for everyone. For us Social Democrats, it is therefore important that the police continue to grow. We can never accept that people feel insecure in their residential area because of criminal gangs, that investigations are closed because of a lack of resources or that those living in rural areas are unsure whether the police are coming. It's for the police you turn to in the most vulnerable situations in your life. Its efforts are crucial to our security. It is the police, with their powers, who are the ultimate guarantor of law and order in our society. We also need to crack gang crime with a concerted effort. It's about both getting tougher on the criminals and stopping the recruitment of young people. At the same time, we need to combat men's violence against women. More sexua crimes investigations must lead to convictions. The demands for sentenced persons to participate in treatment need to be tightened up. And children who witness violence will be given victim status. Madam President, I would like Although we all represent different parties in this debate, are passionate about different parts or work with different things, I am nevertheless convinced that we all want a common cause: to ensure a safe society with reduced crime. It is a common goal to pursue and contribute to. It is basically a strength that we could use much more constructively than we sometimes do. For me, security is a prerequisite for an equal society. To achieve this, we need to come together to reduce the gaps, break segregation, combat crime and strengthen cohesion in our country. Crime is a threat to the whole of democratic society and must be combated by all means. It is when faith in the future is lost that gangs and violence become an alternative. People's security and security are crucial to keeping society together. Security needs to be increased in residential areas as well as in hospitals, train stations, streets and squares. The police need to be more and better equipped in the fight against crime. At the same time, crime prevention and civil society need to be strengthened. The most effective way to prevent young people from choosing crime is to offer something that is better: a good education, something meaningful to do in their spare time, a first job or the opportunity to leave home. We are now implementing reforms for a safer Sweden that closes the gaps, strengthens welfare and counteracts segregation and crime. We hire and train more police officers, strengthen the judiciary, make investments for faster entry of new arrivals into the labour market and invest in vulnerable schools. We want the strong economy in our country to benefit everyone and for the cohesion of Sweden to be strengthened. Madam President, I would like Successful law enforcement requires early and preventive action and the commitment of society as a whole. The rule of law should always react strongly to crime. Through the sanctions a crime may we demonstrate our values and consolidate what is right and wrong. Those who commit crimes should always count on severe punishment. Young people who have fallen into crime need a way out of environments that exacerbate their problems. Men's violence against women causes death and extreme suffering. That is unacceptable. Society should never stand passively while drug sales are in progress and people have to put their lives in criminal deals. Our work in the future needs to be about more policemen but also about investments in schools and social intervention groups. In order to reduce crime and increase security, effective crime prevention work is needed. The government is implementing a series of measures to ensure that the judiciary clears up more crimes and puts an end to the serious violence. But we must continue to strengthen the prevention of crime. This work begins with the fight against poverty and segregation. I am convinced that the chief of police is right when he says that the whole community needs to stop behind the police in order to bring down the gun violence and strangle the recruitment. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we are often able to gather around tougher and sharper tools in the fight against crime. Just as often here in Parliament we need to agree on crime prevention work and efforts. An equal school that has the resources to help every child succeed, a social service that has muscles and can step in and seriously break the development of a young person who has fallen on a slide, reforms that break segregation, improve integration and create good housing for everyone and where education and work are in focus – it is not good for us to talk about this in the future; we must also show here in Parliament that we put welfare first, that we are prepared to invest in what all research and experience shows makes a difference. Together with my friends, I have seen how successful they are working in Malmö to combat organised crime, how the shootings have gone down in Gothenburg and how they have taken back control of squares around Stockholm County when they have gathered in the public against the serious crime. It's not an easy job, but we gather the forces of society, we're so much stronger than the gangs. Gang crime is not a suburban problem but a social problem, and social problems are best solved jointly here. We have put forward a budget for the construction of a whole community. I support the committee's proposal on Category 4 expenditure. But very much of what we need to carry out our mandate as politicians in the area of justice lies on all the other committees and on the whole building of society that the budget so clearly puts first.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-130	Madam President, I would like Controlling with a budget is a bit like steering with a rope. If resources are withdrawn, operations disappear immediately, but it is not possible to kick-start operations by pressing the rope. This requires other driving forces, not least leadership. When sufficient leadership comes up, we must always be prepared to provide funds if it is necessary to achieve the objectives of our policy. Today, the Swedish police have more resources than ever before. In fact, you don't have time to spend all the money. Last year they got 1 billion over, this year about half a year. But they are doing very well with the resources they receive, and we must be prepared to release more as they and other law enforcement authorities improve and can translate these funds into concrete law enforcement capabilities. Although many aspects of the development of justice are moving in the right direction, far too much is not. The security that people feel is being eroded every day — for every shooting, for every murder, for every burglary, for every diesel theft and for every fraud. But efforts are being made. After a shaky time for the police, the new organization is now in place, and the ability actually seems to be slowly beginning to increase. Initiatives are being taken. New methods are being developed and implemented in a way that will enhance law enforcement capabilities. Developments can also be reversed in those areas which are currently going in the wrong direction. The entire Parliament agrees on a quantitative target for strengthening the police. By 2024 we'll have 10,000 more police employees. It is an ambitious objective that will not meet itself. We have to work for it and follow up every step of the way there very carefully. In the case of a minimum sign of non-compliance, action shall be taken to steer the development back on the determined path. Once the goal of more muscle is in place, it is time to take the next step. Now that we have increased the quantity within the police, it is time to start looking at the quality. When I talk to police officers around the country who succeed in their important mission, there are often two things they have in common. First, they show in every word and action that they understand the value of leadership. They are simply good leaders. Secondly, it is about how they use and apply knowledge from research and proven experience. Few police problems are unique to a specific local police area. Many wheels have been invented in parallel for not taking the time to look at how others have done. The method of ensuring the sharing of information is research. We need to improve police research in Sweden, and we need to be better at applying existing research. Often there are also many good examples from other countries that can be used directly or with modification in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Over time, I have learned to appreciate the value of long-termness. Linked to it is also the absolute essence of having a plan and following it. Reality is constantly changing, and new information is added that puts old ideas on hold. But that does not change the fact that in order to get anywhere, we need to get a clear idea of what we want. My greatest desire for justice policy is for us to obtain a common picture, which is as widely anchored as possible, of what is our task and what we are to achieve. May be that we have a variety of ideas on how best to get there, but for a moment let's put the question The formulations will be different, perhaps even the political drivers, but somewhere I think we all agree on the main features: security will increase, and Sweden will be a safe country to live in. Perhaps the priorities for the different sub-totals of this security may vary between us, but one fact is that the security gaps in recent years have increased. Areas that are already safe are even more secure, while areas that are insecure are even worse. For me, that gap is very serious and needs to be bridged. Everyone in the whole country, no matter who you are, what gender or origin you have and whether you belong to a large majority or a minority, should feel that the risk of being subjected to crime is small enough not to have to go around worrying about it. The other side of the same coin is that we feel that the decisions of the authorities and courts are legally secure. As politicians, it is of course fun to be noticed, but the fact is that our goal must be to build the country so safe that it is no longer acutely interesting to hear about our various proposals. If we succeed, the inhabitants of Sweden should rely on us to make wise decisions based on science and proven experience. The fact that we see and can value security problems is, of course, a key. We should not be afraid of facts and accurate statistics, but we also have a huge responsibility to use these facts correctly and not to take the raisins out of the knowledge censor to use false images of the state of things to drive other agendas than the one we all have to agree on is most important right now: to push back crime and build a safer Sweden for everyone. Of course, the attraction can be great to try to take advantage of people's concerns to score political points, but in order to succeed with our part in all this, we must at this point show leadership, rise above the fuss and become more constructive. Maybe we can focus less on whose fault is and look more at how the errors can be corrected. Madam President, I would like The Centre Party's highest priority in the discussions on gang violence that took place earlier this autumn was a long-term measure, rather than any good and interesting ideas about legislative changes that must take place in the short term. We believe that we need to find a form to map out the main features of Swedish legal policy, to get a better and more unified picture of the nature of the problems and to find a clearer direction for Swedish legal policy on the basis of that knowledge. It is our opinion that this is best done in a parliamentary preparation involving all the parties of the Riksdag, a security committee. It is a response to one of the most serious shortcomings of justice policy in recent years: lack of clear direction. If you are going to be a little generous, perhaps you can at some point explain this lack of direction with a thorny parliamentary position. We simply do not know in advance what the majority of legal questions will be. But that's not really an excuse. Anyone who claims to rule the country also assumes responsibility for creating a majority for his policy. Anyone who wants to implement their policies is responsible for building sufficient confidence to enable it to be implemented. The government is happy to beat its chest for the volume of legislation it performs in the field of justice. The volume is actually good, even quite impressive when compared to other processing areas. However, the results are less impressive. Even on this point, one can acknowledge the fact that it takes time for many actions to take effect. But, Madam President, we have been at a time now. Another serious cause of the weak results is the lack of coherence and systemic thinking in justice policy. Of course the government does a lot of things, but it does it only after someone else has put pressure on it. It is, of course, a good thing that we all contribute to putting this pressure when the government itself has no drive. But it inevitably makes justice policy less effective than it needs to be if we are to manage to solve the serious problems that affect too many people in Sweden today.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-151	Madam President, I would like The Liberals support this budget report. We believe, however, that it is very clear that our judicial system is currently inadequately dimensioned. Sweden is growing, and unfortunately serious crime is doing the same, not infrequently with international connections. Although crime does not increase in general, four shootings are always more than five residential offences. We see a judicial system that is having an incredibly tough time and which has a task that exceeds the resources it currently possesses. Therefore, this budget is a uniquely large investment in the Swedish judicial system. From 2018 and as far as we can predict – it is not yet pre-negotiated for 2022 – this is an increase from 45 to 55 billion in rough throws. It is a unique initiative that has come about because the Liberals and others think this has been important. Then there is the fact that an opposition always has more money; that has been the case in this House for 100 years. The opposition thinks it is too little, too late and too bad, so even this year. What do we see, Madam President? There is, of course, a shortage of police officers. It is significant when Sweden grows. Recurrently in the budget bill it appears that we have increased the number of district police officers to 616 from the previous year, when there were 580. There are very few district police officers if you are serious about the police working preventively. It's about two per municipality, big and small. There is therefore a need for more police officers, and that is where we have a long-term plan. We can also see how the courts stand up to their knees in cases and files. The situation, not least in the immigration courts, and for that matter also in a lot of district courts, is embarrassing. It risks taking longer and costing more along the way. V i risks a worse outcome, and legal certainty and security are the losing party. Here is the Liberals' assessment that we will have to come back. It's also full in our detention centres and prisons. Only Kumlaanstalt in the county where I live currently has a occupancy of 460 people in 420 regular places. There they are absolutely the worst criminals trying to atone for their crimes. We will see how it goes, but it will be more difficult, in any case, with the rather extensive overcrowding. Liberals believe that there is no alternative. We must make these efforts of at least 10 billion during the term of office, because if the serious violence spreads, we do not know where it goes. If the gang criminality, shootings and blasts get stuck, we do not know if we are approaching a tipping point, where the Swedish rule of law will have difficulty coming back. We see that these efforts are absolutely crucial. There have never been as many police officers, lawyers and criminologists as there are today. These are now coming into the activities of this report. They start working in the police as police officers or as other important employees, they start working in our courts and they get into the Prison Service. It has never been mixed, and will never be mixed, as much cement to build new institutions as it is now. Unfortunately, that is absolutely necessary. However, we Liberals want to say that it is not only possible to spend so much money on it. For example, in a year the police have received 2.4 billion more, and they will receive 2.5 billion more next year. So, as mentioned earlier in the speaker's chair, they do not waste all their resources. That is the long-term objective that is important. 10 000 employees in the Swedish police are the key. We have at this month's entrance 20 452 police officers, and the number will continue to increase in the near future. There are also 11, 284 central and important other employees. Together, there will be almost 32,000 employees in the Swedish police. But you also have to be able to swallow. Today we have an educational capacity that we have never seen before. We have five training courses that are up and running to be able to replenish with the police that this country needs. It is central to us liberals. Even the defense is growing in a unique way right now. We had a time when it was closed down in a unique way, which was perhaps not so smart afterwards. But now both the defense and the police are growing. I believe that we need another unit at the Recruiting Authority, which will also test conscripts for the defence, so that we can deal with the great need in the future. Let's put this budget in place. The opposition will say that it's too little, too late and too bad– much as we've had it for 100 years – and I promise, my friends: I've also been in opposition and always had more money. However, from the Liberals we would like to point out that there are a lot of things that are important to do in parallel. It's not just money, and it's not just more people. It's important to say. It's also about police tools. The toolbox needs to get better and sharper. We in this House must make sure that we ask the government to come back with proposals that will provide the police with better resources for detecting, monitoring and squeezing the suspected serious criminals and bringing them to court. We should have a relevant criminal law so that the court receives penalties that are relevant and not counterproductive. It is about everything from reasonable penalties for honour-related violence to today's unreasonable penalty rebates based on the amount of crime. We need to strengthen cooperation. I was the other day in Ljusnarsberg and saw at close range how important it is to work locally between different authorities to drive out crime that otherwise gets stuck in a small, vulnerable society. The same is true at national level, where the police feel that they want more force and efficiency in their coordination responsibilities, for example when it comes to working with the Swedish Tax Agency or Kronofogden to clamp down on serious criminals and in the long term push back crime. It is also about prevention, Madam President. We never get away from the fact that it's about our young people. It is about working schools, and it is about the conditions for a sensible future. It's absolutely crucial. If things go wrong, social services have to go in. A more effective social service with muscles was also called for earlier in the speaker's seat, and nothing could please a liberal more. Past and clearer efforts are the way forward. We need to work better to prevent extremism. We have talked about this a great deal in this House this autumn. We need to strengthen European cooperation. The recently completed Operation Trident was not only a good collaboration between the police, the coastguard and customs, but also had international elements showing how we in Europe have a common responsibility to combat cross-border crime. Madam President, I would like The Liberals are behind this budget for the judiciary. We are not entirely satisfied in all parts. We believe that we will have to come back in future budgetary negotiations. Resources will need to increase further, in the long term and at a reasonable pace. To conclude, let me stress that, according to the budget proposal that we can all look at if we want, about 10 billion are substantial reinforcements that are necessary – these are the right reinforcements that the Swedish judiciary is now receiving.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-173	Madam President, I would like Security is a person's foundation. Security is a prerequisite for trust. And without trust, security and solidarity, society will not work. The judiciary is the power and means of the state to bring security, and thereby security, to its citizens. Security and security are not entirely the same. There is no necessary connection, but of course both are extremely important, and the state must ensure both security and security. The number of murders in Sweden has not increased over time, but they have changed their character. Today, more people are being murdered in the public room, in the open street – sometimes an execution – than a few decades ago. The shootings that occur in Sweden must be stopped – as well as the explosions. The explosions are special because they do not occur in other countries in the way we see in Sweden. Madam President, I would like At the end of August there was a terrible murder in Malmö. It was a warm late summer day. A few hundred meters from Ribersborgsstranden, a mother of young children was shot to death with her infant in her arms. Cruelty and brutality made all of Sweden sad. After the attack, block-crossing talks began. For a couple of weeks the parties gathered, put forward proposals and discussed. In the final stage, the chairmen departed from the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. They took a short week and went off to Tel Aviv. It was a pity that they dropped out, and it was a pity that there was no cross-block agreement. Nevertheless, 34 points were tabled by the government. These were massive efforts to tackle the shootings and the causes behind them, and they were about a strong judiciary and a strong police force. I am glad that, despite the drop-off, we have a broad consensus in the negotiations between parties that the police should be strong and grow, get more resources and more tools. The government yesterday presented new possibilities for secret data reading and to facilitate search of the premises. In the past, there have been cases of simplified camera surveillance procedures. The programme also contains new sanctions, such as a ban on residence. Madam President, I would like In particular, enhanced preventive efforts were included in the Government's proposal. They are about school and social services as well as between compulsory social services. Furthermore, it is a matter of being clear to the municipalities about how they can contribute to the security and crime prevention work. Then, not least, it is about the joint work of the authorities, for example, to reduce segregation. This is where the major political dividing lines are, rather than in terms of the police growing and getting stronger. Then there is what is often forgotten, unfortunately, namely that those who live criminal lives should be able to leave crime and become honest citizens with jobs and self-support. There are drop-outs around the country, and several of them work well. It is extremely important that this work should be geared up and strengthened at national level. We also need to have a penitentiary that actually equips those who are locked up so that they have better conditions when they come out. On the part of the Green Party and the Government, we do not see more institutions as a municipal matter for the municipalities concerned, but we see them as something we all have to work for together – no matter what the Christian Democrats think on this issue. Madam President, I would like Much remains to be done in this area. Expenditure area 4 is an important part, but security and security work is also available in more areas, ministries, expenditure areas and committees. What we are doing in this budget and in Category 4 is a step in the right direction. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-181	Madam President, I would like Rasmus Ling has been a diligent questioner during the debate. We do not want to be worse, but, of course, we also want to ask the representative of a government party a question. As far as crime and crime are concerned, I have repeatedly had the privilege of having a debate with Rasmus Ling on the importance of more police officers and more stringent penalties. There, the Green Party is a stable voice for a different policy than the one I want to see. I think it is important to tighten the penalties for a series of crimes precisely to mark the seriousness of the crimes and to provide redress to those, unfortunately, many victims in our country, in a different way than today. But there is also another area in which we do not agree, namely the rule of law. I know that the Green Party and Rasmus Ling often talk about the importance of legal certainty. It's extremely good. But as always, it's not about what you say, it's about what you actually do. In this budget, together with other parties, the Green Party provides about half of what the National Courts have wanted for next year. I have also pointed out what the consequences of this will be. It's about longer processing times. Victims may have to wait longer for redress. There may even be redundancies, it is said. This concerns not only criminal matters but also family cases. Children will have to wait longer for the goals to be met. We Moderates give what the National Courts have wanted, and the government gives about half. What I do not understand is how the rule of law in Sweden is improved by the fact that the Swedish Courts continue to be underfunded in this important area.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-186	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the Moderates address the aspects of legal certainty. This is something that is not always present in the proposals that are being made and the debates that are being held. I welcome the fact that these issues are being addressed. It is quite right that the independence and funding of the judiciary are crucial for the functioning of society and for the absence of bottlenecks in the system. We're adding funds to the courts. I am absolutely sure that additional money will have to be added to future budgets. Just as Johan Pehrson said earlier in the speaker's chair, Madam President, it is easier to be an opposition and not to have to make the tough priorities that we have to do. But we're providing funds. I am absolutely sure that we will have to add more funds, and I welcome the interest of the Moderates in the issues of legal certainty.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-189	Madam President, I would like If it's so easy to be in opposition, it almost sounds like you're dreaming back there. I wish you good luck in the future, and I hope that you will soon have the opportunity to live the simple opposition existence, Rasmus Ling. But maybe that wasn't really the answer to the question anyway. Rasmus Ling here talks about the importance of more legal certainty, but when it comes to the money, the government chooses to under-finance the Swedish Courts while we in the opposition add more. Even the Left Party adds more money to the Swedish Courts. But Rasmus Ling, the Green Party, and the Social Democrats choose to give only half. There will be longer processing times, longer waiting and worse redress for victims. I still do not understand how the Green Party can talk about legal certainty when you do something quite different in your budget. The numbers aren't lying, are they, Rasmus Ling?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-192	Madam President, I would like I don't dream of a simpler life. Of course you can look for the beach in Tel Aviv and feel that it would be nice. But we from the Green Party and the Social Democrats with cooperation parties have set out to continue to implement the important policies contained in the budget and in the January agreement. The numbers don't lie – we're doing a backup. We're not doing the beloved reinforcements. We cannot do that for all the authorities. There are many authorities in need of money, and we need to make tough priorities. Let's do that. I'm glad we're making money. We will certainly need more money in the future. The fact that the Moderates protect the legal certainty of this budget allocation is a good thing. The Left Party even wants to give more.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-195	Madam President, I would like In fact, I cannot help commenting on the Tel Aviv possession that seems to prevail with Rasmus Ling. I think the Green Party and Rasmus Ling should go home and sweep their own house. Speaking of air travel, their own spokesperson flew for half a million more than the Prime Minister himself last term of office, and that was due to quite a few business class trips. We are happy to talk about air travel another time, Rasmus Ling, but I do not think it adds anything to the debate to highlight it in this way. It is clear that Rasmus Ling has an interest in penitentiary. I am going to ask Rasmus Ling a question about this, but first I have another question. I was perplexed when I heard the line shift with Johan Forssell. What is so difficult for Rasmus Ling and the government to give the courts what they have asked for? I want answers to that. The second question is how it will be better with SEK 120 million less for the Prison Service compared to the shadow budget of the Christian Democrats. What is Rasmus Ling's long-term plan for the expansion of the Prison Service? We have spoken about Svedala earlier in the debate. After all, it was a referendum that was the basis for the decision there. Rasmus Ling usually respects democracy and advocates referendums to quite a large extent. The majority of 67 1⁄2% who voted 'no', should it stand back for the minority of 26.7% who voted 'yes'? How does Rasmus Ling view the referendum actually held in Svedala on this issue? I also wonder how Rasmus Ling sees the possibility of building a prison in some other municipality in Skåne. Trelleborg, for example, said right away that you would like to have an institution there. There is room, says the municipal councillor in an interview that I have read. So there are possibilities. What is missing is the government's long-term perspective.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-201	Madam President, I would like I didn't mean to get caught up in Tel Aviv for nothing. But I hope that Andreas Carlson thinks that there is a difference between flying in the service and leaving the country on Thursday morning and not being present when perhaps the most important political issue is being dealt with between the parties during the most turbulent period. I think there's quite a difference. I hope Andreas Carlson thinks so too. I don't miss anyone going on vacation, but there's a time and a place for everything. Madam President, I would like With regard to the Prison Service, Trelleborg has shown interest. And so do other municipalities. That is, of course, pleasing, because it is needed. But even in the case of Svedala they were initially very on. They wanted this. But then came a local opinion, driven by the Christian Democrats, and stopped it at a late stage. This could also happen in Trelleborg or in other municipalities. I hope that Andreas Carlson will do his bit to engage in dialogue and find a place so that it can happen and you don't waste time the way you did here. One must be able to take a little more responsibility than Andreas Carlson now, Madam President.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-204	Madam President, I would like It is always fun to hear the government with its non-responsibility meet up with the expectation that the opposition will take responsibility. But that's how it is with the government we have now, so nothing new under the sun. I did not get an answer to the question as to what is so difficult to give the courts what they have asked for. I expect an answer to that. As for Tel Aviv, I believe that Rasmus Ling underestimates the Internet expansion and telephone connection in that city. There's more to explore. But back to the basic issue here, Prison and Long-term. What is the long-term plan of the Green Party and the government?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-208	Madam President, I would like If we are talking about long-termism: During the time when Beatrice Ask and the Alliance government were responsible for these issues, prisons were closed. There was then a surplus, so one can say that it was rational. But should you have a long-term perspective in this it takes ten years, at least, and when the Christian Democrats stop it, of course, it takes even longer. If you are going to have a long-term view, then it is important that Christian Democrats do not come in at the last moment and stop it. The government and the Correctional Service had very good contact with the management. But then there came a local opinion that the Christian Democrats exploited and stopped. So there is long-term planning, but if it is to be completed, it is a matter of not coming Christian Democrats and stopping the processes at the last moment.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-210	Madam President, I would like We leave the incoming governor of Södermanland and Tel Aviv's internet infrastructure and return to the gang talks. After all, we Liberals, too, left them. Why? Yes, it wasn't because some party leader was in Tel Aviv, but because we thought they weren't quite enough – and for us it was pretty obvious that it's the Green Party that is slowing down. A sensible sosse isn't usually that much wrong with, I say. You can talk to them. However, people have come in who are constantly opposed to taking the measures in the field of criminal law that are necessary to move forward. We heard earlier about Malmö, in which Rasmus Ling has good insight. There's Operation Rimfrost on serious crime. 80 children between the ages of 8 and 14 have been identified as part of gang structures. Eight years! What sharp measures does the Green Party want to take for earlier and clearer action for these children? After all, they risk eternal misery for themselves and others if efforts are not made faster. What steps can Rasmus Ling take to help with this? It's a bit like I'm negotiating the budget here now, because when this budget is ready and we've clubbed it, we'll start with the next budget. Then it is important that the Green Party is involved and not just standing here talking. Then there are all young people between the ages of 15 and 18 who can be tried in court. What are we gonna do with them? We must also have measures there, and resources are also needed in order to intervene sooner and more clearly. And then these discounts! Why should 19- and 20-year-olds engaged in serious organised crime have an automatic discount in court, Rasmus Ling?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-216	Madam President, I would like Given that over the last five years this House has tightened the penalties for over 50 crimes, I find it difficult to see that the Green Party would have been a brake block, at least not a very effective one. We think it should be the right punishment for the right crime. There shall be proportionality. Several of the penalties that have been imposed have been very long-awaited and important, and they have improved the situation compared to before. Not least, I am pleased that we introduced the assent legislation, which the Green Party was the only party to advocate as little as ten years ago. We could also tighten up the weapons crime and impose mandatory arrest for it. These are important measures that we have put in place. Madam President, I would like I am at least as worried as Johan Pehrson about the very young who commit crimes, for the 8 – 14-year-olds who commit robberies or other really serious crimes. It is clear that action is needed on a broad front to deal with this situation. The school has to work, because 8 to 14-year-olds are going to school. You're supposed to do more than that. Social services must also be strengthened. One example found in the 34-point program left by the Liberals was inter-obligation in social services, a very important measure to get to grips with this. Criminalising or tightening the penalties for those recruiting young people is a proposal put forward by the Green Party. It was a result of this, and it is an important measure. We are going to put the responsibility on those who are older and driven behind this, not on those who are eight years old.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-222	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I look forward to the forthcoming budget negotiations, where we are making sure to create resources to help municipalities take care of young people who need to get off the street now. The signal value is catastrophic. Young people run around robbing others and putting fear in the countryside, and nothing happens. We need to get them off the street. If they cannot be arrested and detained, we must ensure that they are taken care of otherwise, otherwise this will only continue. Early and clear action is incredibly important. Then I would like to highlight a discussion on the mid-term requirement – it is important. Parents should not have the right to say no to efforts. We will soon have the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law. It is the best thing for the child to be the important thing, not that parents can have children as some kind of social therapy to rehabilitate themselves. Finally, unless Rasmus Ling contributes to resource enhancements and other measures, the Liberals will find new majorities in the Riksdag to push forward criminal law.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-225	Madam President, I would like I am delighted with the commitment to solving the problem of too many, too young children being out committing crimes. It is clear to me, to the government and obviously to Johan Pehrson that this is very urgent and that measures need to be taken widely. We have many discussions on criminal law; that is important. I do not think that, at all times, the problems are solved by increasing the penalties. I think that we should have the right punishment and that there should be proportionality. If it had been so simple that we could have solved the problems by tightening the penalties, we would have done so. We've done 50 penitentiaries. I do not think that Johan Pehrson thinks that we would make crime go away if we made further efforts and came up to 100. I think we agree that other things must also be done.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-227	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a safe country for everyone. This is essential for a society to stay together. Society must be strong enough to protect people from everything from everyday crime to serious organised crime and terrorism. It is against this background that Sweden is making the greatest security effort in modern times. Sweden today has serious problems with shootings and blasts. The problems have emerged for a long time, and many should feel responsible for not doing more before. The causes of gang violence are several and of a different nature. Some direct causes include the availability of weapons and explosives, drugs and structural causes such as lack of integration and social vulnerability. There are also more aspects here, such as school failures, unemployment, poverty and overcrowding. Low detection risk in the event of a crime is another contributing factor. This is due, among other things, to the fact that the resources and tools of the police and customs have been too weak for a long time. We are changing this, not least through the historic effort of 10,000 more employees in the police and the government's 34-point programme against gang crime. The police are currently gathering power through Operation Rimfrost to repress gang violence in Sweden. The actions are provisionally over six months. The aim is to reduce the number of shootings and blasts, reduce the number of people in criminal settings through prison sentences and dropouts, increase the number of seizures of weapons and explosives and increase the public's sense of security. Today we are discussing the budget report. Together with the Liberals and the Center Party, the government is intensifying the fight against crime and its causes. The January agreement clearly states that security will increase, the police will expand and the attractiveness of the police profession will continue to be strengthened. The budget bill makes efforts to strengthen the entire judiciary and increase security in society. This is quite right in the long term. We take responsibility for Sweden at a time when major efforts are needed to increase security. Let me elaborate with a few words about the police department. The work of employing 10,000 more police officers by 2024 continues. This represents an increase of 30%. The Police Authority will increase the number of employees from just under 30 000 to nearly 40 000 to 2024. This is not a simple operation; there will certainly be setbacks. But we are determined to succeed, because it strengthens society's ability to handle this, as well as the possibilities for preventive efforts to work throughout Sweden. It also strengthens security throughout the country. This is an effort that will be noticed throughout Sweden. In order to put this a little in perspective, the Swedish Police Authority 2017 had about SEK 22 billion to finance its operations. In 2020, this sum has grown to just over SEK 28 billion. We are now making a historic effort on police operations, but it will continue to require resources to carry out the expansion of the police in the coming years. In our efforts to repress gang violence, we must never forget other types of serious crimes. I am thinking in particular of women who are victims of violence in close relationships on a daily basis. There has been a discussion about whether this should be prioritised away or whether it is being pushed away now that we have shootings and blasts to handle. I would like to say that this is not something that should be pushed aside. It should have the same high priority as any other serious criminality. I do not think anyone in this House has been able to fail to read the horrendous report in DN about Josefin, who was almost beaten to death by his partner. The images show the result of a misogynism that is hard to put into words. These despicable acts deserve our attention. We need long-term work to stop men's violence against women – a job that needs to be exchanged. This is a little underdeveloped in the argumentation, but the 10 000 more police workers we are talking about will also have a crucial impact on women's security around Sweden. Increased police presence on streets and squares around Sweden will increase security in everyday life. But the expansion of the police now also makes it possible for 350 employees to focus on rape, crimes in close relationships and violent and sexual crimes. It is a hugely important initiative that the police are currently conducting around Sweden. Combating violence in close relations is a high priority for the government. During the current term of office, the level of ambition is further increased. This can also be seen in the budgetary context by investing in women's shelters, victim support and other things that are really needed to take this issue very seriously. It is about the urgent support for victims of violence and their children and the prevention of efforts to change their behaviour. In order to increase security in Sweden, we must also be able to deal with the root causes of young people getting involved in crime. Several have touched on this earlier in the debate. A broad political consensus would be needed on long-term measures to get fewer young people involved in crime. Otherwise, our penalties, our new tools to the police and our larger police authority risk having less effect on security in Sweden. During the last term of office, the government presented the first national crime prevention programme in 20 years. We strengthened the national role of the National Council for Crime Prevention in support and coordination. We introduced regional actors as crime prevention coordinators at the county administrative boards of the country. The municipalities have a central role in crime prevention and can contribute with important contributions in the form of social services, school activities, supervision, community planning and housing policy. However, much of this work today is done on a voluntary basis. The Government has therefore set up an investigation to review how a statutory crime prevention responsibility for municipalities could be designed. We need to have a special focus on children and young people. It is about school, child and youth care, the Prison Service's experimental activities with various lock-in programmes, the 34-point programme and the national drop-out programme. This is what was mentioned earlier: preventive measures with a special focus on schools and social services in socially vulnerable areas and on social services in the evenings and weekends in the same areas. But it is also a question of taking a long-term approach to this. I would therefore like to emphasise what has not least been highlighted by the Centre Party in the debate: the need for us in this House not only to agree quickly on some punitive measures and new tools, but also to have an overall view of the issues of security. Therefore, the Government will shortly return to the Swedish Parliament with the proposal for a security committee. While we need to prevent the recruitment of gang crime and prevent young people from entering it, we need to take advantage of what the Green Party raised in the debate, namely the responsibilities of gangs and criminal groups when recruiting and involving young people in criminal environments. It is also included in the 34-point program, where we look at penalties for such activities. I think we are all aware that strong efforts are now being made to strengthen police activities also need to be accompanied by additional resources to strengthen other parts of the judiciary. The budget therefore adds more resources to the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the Swedish Economic Crimes Agency, the Swedish Courts, the Swedish Correctional Office and the National Board of Forensic Medicine to meet the increased workload. In total, the legal system will receive SEK 700 million in 2020. As of 2022, the investment is estimated to amount to SEK 1.4 billion. We are strengthening the whole legal chain, because it determines our overall ability to build a stronger society and a safer Sweden. Finally, Madam President, we are in the midst of rapid development. We intend to push this development forward with vigour. We'll hold on and hold on. We are absolutely convinced that we will be able to gradually reverse the trend and reduce gang violence, but also create greater security in Sweden.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-248	Madam President, I would like Just as many people have been involved in this debate, we are currently in a very difficult and serious situation in the country in terms of security or rather insecurity. Only this year there have been 300 shootings, and we seem to be moving towards a new black record. Explosives cling to human consciousness – regrettable but natural. To deal with the situation, you have to do several things at the same time. It's about more cops, which a lot of people have been into. It is a question of more stringent penalties, which is important in order to highlight the seriousness of the crime. There we had a discussion in the gang negotiations, but unfortunately it was not possible to meet all the way. The explanation for this – if I am going to take an example of the penalties – was what the Green Party pointed out at the press conference afterwards, namely that what the government chose to go forward with was a marginal change in the penalty discount for young people. Despite the fact that there is actually a majority in this House to go much further, the government was unable to do so. Then it will be difficult for the opposition to participate in an agreement. But there is also another perspective, and it is about the importance of prevention. Unfortunately, many municipalities around Sweden now tell us that they need to make reductions next year, for example in school. One current example is the situation in Malmö, where savings of SEK 50 million are now being made. Parents object to the savings. It has been said that up to one in ten teachers in comprehensive school may need to be laid off next year. If we do not build schools and have good quality in school, it is clear that sooner or later we will have to build prisons. My question to the Minister for Home Affairs is: how does the talk of prevention go with the fact that state subsidies are now so low that many municipalities will have to make cuts in schools next year?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-253	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that the Moderates choose to discuss preventive work, because we have heard very little about this until now. But it is very welcome. Before we begin, we can say that our financial situation linked to the resources we have in society is also affected by the budget that M and KD pushed through, with 20 billion in a new job tax deduction. Few people I meet in town say that this was the most important measure now with the problems we have in health care, in school and in the labour market. But it's another discussion. What do we do in Malmö, for example, where you have major challenges in your economy? The first and most important thing is that we contribute SEK 5 billion in the budget to the municipalities' general state contribution. We are changing the equivalence support to the municipalities, so that Malmö can really apply for and get part of the money that the School Commission has proposed to increase equivalence in Swedish schools. We are making great efforts to also provide support for teachers, not least in the case of teaching assistants, so that teachers get even more support and help in the classroom. We are investing heavily in the municipalities and will continue to do so. That is a priority for us before major tax cuts. On the other hand, Malmö is a municipality that despite difficult challenges has really managed to reverse the development in Swedish schools. Eight years in a row of rising school results in Malmö, despite the challenges Malmö has had, shows that Malmö is a municipality that, if you just get the right conditions, will also continue to prioritise Swedish school.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-258	Madam President, I would like I think that we in this House return to preventive measures many times. But you might hear what you want to hear. There are, of course, many proposals for this in our budget. It's a little strange, though. As we are now told, it is always someone else's fault. The government is now in its sixth year, but it is still the fault of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. The strange thing is that in our budget we manage to allocate more money to state grants to schools, both locally in Malmö, where we add SEK 100 million in order not to have to make savings, and in an additional amending budget that we have demanded. There we add 5 billion more, in addition to what the government is presenting. It's about priorities. If it is difficult to find money, I suggest, for example, considering the reasonableness of spending billions on free years, additional holiday days or extended aid. There is, of course, money to spend on the judicial system and on preventive measures if you just want to, Mikael Damberg.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-261	Madam President, I would like We can have a general political discussion about the moderates' poison cocktail against Sweden's municipalities, where you really reduce resources to what has to do with support for the sick and the unemployed, as well as with efforts to relieve the municipalities in costs. Should you lift all these costs on a municipality like Malmö there would be large deficits there. It is not taking responsibility for the finances of municipalities. But let us take a very concrete example. We were in the gang talks, and when they broke down, I heard the Moderates say: We're going to support all points in the 34-point program. One of the points concerned targeted support for those municipalities with particularly serious problems in school and social services. That was one of the points. But the first thing that happens is that the Moderates two weeks later cancel the entire budget! These are actions that will work in the long term in those municipalities that have the greatest problems with segregation and major social challenges in school. You'll start by ironing. It's not responsible. We need long-term efforts towards segregation, and we will continue to do so.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-264	Madam President, I would like I believe that I and the Minister for Home Affairs share the shock of hearing the Moderates speak for the first time about crime prevention. I don't think I've ever heard it before in this House. On the other hand, I have heard a lot of talk about punishment, neo-criminalisation and secret coercive measures. Unfortunately, it has been far too often, and it has come from the government and the Minister for the Interior. It is no surprise that I am making this criticism. I think that the government's focus in the judiciary is far too one-sided. 50 punitive measures since 2014 also require 50 crime prevention proposals. Much of what Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg talks about in his speech and in the line changes sounds great. There is now a greater focus on crime prevention proposals, and I welcome that. However, when we look at what is actually happening in the budget, we can see that the figures are not linked. Municipalities lack 20 billion to meet demographic trends. The tax on high-income earners is reduced by 6 billion. The school is reduced by SEK 985 million. What the Minister for the Interior says is not connected with what we really need to do in Sweden in order to reduce crime. I also think it is good that we are talking more about men's violence against women and about the macho culture which is too widespread and which is actually one of the major reasons for the shootings and gang crime. But what I miss is a continuation of the Metoo package that the government presented together with the Left Party during the last parliamentary term. It is important to work with the budget. I miss the money when it comes to men's violence against women.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-269	Madam President, I would like I have great respect for the involvement of the Left Party in social issues and prevention. I think that's where we have the same basic view. Then it may be easier for the Left Party to be in opposition and say that not enough is done. But I'm having a bit of a hard time making sense of the argument. What punitive measures is it that the Left Party thinks is wrong? Is this about the serious gun crime, which last year meant that the police took 1,000 weapons in Sweden and that about 230 people were put in prison? That was pretty good, wasn't it? Is that the punishment for the serious drug offences? We know that drugs are the breeding ground for gang crime in Sweden. Is this about what we are now proposing? We're looking at a search warrant to give the police new opportunities to stop a spiral of violence. When there's a shooting, there's a big risk of another shooting. Shouldn't the police be able to go through basements in known criminal environments to look for weapons and make sure there isn't another shooting and explosion? It has to be a little more specific. Shouldn't we give– there I've heard before that you've been more critical – the police the ability to read encrypted information in gangs' cell phones? I think it is absolutely crucial if you are to break up these gangs that you can actually also read their technical communication with each other. These are important issues. It will not be safer in the suburbs if gangs continue to shoot or blow up or keep their weapons and drugs. But we must also be able to make investments in the school. Today there are 31 000 more employees in Swedish schools, which is probably one of the reasons why the PISA results are turning up for Sweden again. It is clear that these are preventive measures. We say in the 34-point programme that we intend to return to the Riksdag with special initiatives in the socially vulnerable areas when it comes to school, social services – social services on weekends and evenings – as well as between compulsory social services, so that social services have more legal tools to work with. These are also important issues.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-277	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that I am asking a question about crime prevention and that the Minister for Home Affairs is beginning to talk very much about penalties. I would also like to put on record the PISA result that it was pupils who had highly educated parents with high incomes who had good results, not students who had tougher relationships and parents who, for example, had unsafe part-time jobs. The working class still has it too tough. It is no secret: the government has made substandard terrorist legislation, which the Left Party is opposed to. It's unimagined. It's undefined. Nor will we welcome the proposal for secret data reading, because it is too legally insecure. Data storage will not work to the extent hoped for by the government. That's where we want targeted storage. On the other hand, we have been involved in raising the penalties for sexual offences, consent law and arms law.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-279	Madam President, I would like My point was that the Left Party is wrong in asking these questions against each other. We have to do both. If we are to access much of the sexual violence online, for example, we must have data storage. You cannot know in advance who is suspected of child pornography offences. Then we wouldn't have needed data storage. We need data storage to get to the criminal circles that exploit children and women online, for example. Then you have to have modern tools. But I welcome the commitment to social issues. I think that we, our two parties, have been a little lonely on these issues in relation to many other parties that have given priority to other things. I believe that the development of society now shows that the growing segregation is not sustainable. It also creates conflicts and increased crime. Then we must be able to do both. I hope that we can cooperate widely in this House.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-282	Madam President, I would like I have a specific question for the Government. The National Court Office requested SEK 550 million in its documentation to the Government. The Swedish Courts Authority – Sweden's Courts, received SEK 280 million. That's half of what you asked for. It points to consequences: redundancies, reduced number of notaries or cuts. My question is: how does this rhyme with the words about the great effort on the judiciary? Does Minister Ling share the view that, as I see it, it is difficult to prioritise this? What long-term consequences does the Minister of the Interior have for the lack of resources for the courts? How is legal certainty improved if the courts are forced to cut back?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-284	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Andreas Carlson, for an important question! Independent courts are crucial for both the rule of law and democracy, and the activities of the courts must be effective and of high quality. It is clear that in recent years we have seen an increase in the number of targets. There is an increased workload on the courts. This applies in principle to all types of objectives. The increase is expected to continue in the future, which is why we are investing in the courts. What you might skip a little in the discussion is that we made an increase in the autumn change budget for 2019 with SEK 174 million. And now the government proposes that the grant increase by SEK 280 million for next year. So it's a level increase. But this is an issue that we will follow over time, because the whole legal chain must work. And there must, of course, be legal certainty in the courts. But it's not that we're just making the investment with the 280 million kroner. This is linked to the autumn change budget's allocation of SEK 174 million extra.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-287	Madam President, I would like It is true that an amending budget was made, and it was based on the fact that the M-KD budget gave what the Court of Justice had requested. Then we saw an increase in the flow of cases, so we had to make an amending budget. Now we have better forecasts. The Court of Justice has indicated that the influx of cases will increase by up to 35 per cent, and in several courts it is even more so. When the government sees this – that's how I perceive Mikael Damberg's answer – I wonder: Why is nothing being done now? This is the moment when redundancies have to be made. This is the time to limit the number of notaries. This will have a very long-term impact on the activities of the courts. Then I expect the government not only to say that you are seeing this and that you are coming back but that you are also acting. We are now discussing the budget for next year. Why have only half of what they have requested been given to the courts? I also ask: What consequences does Mikael Damberg see that this will have in the long term?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-289	Madam President, I would like The budget that we are now debating proposes SEK 280 million more for the Court of Justice. We noted that we had to change. We did not think that the M-KD budget was to the full when it came to the courts and was then forced to go in with SEK 174 million extra. It is therefore a work that we carry out systematically. It has to be long-term. It cannot be solved in just one budget or so; it is a long-term development. We will follow it very closely. But it's not just that question. It is also about other changes in the system that we are discussing in this House. Faster prosecution is something that I think can free up time and energy in many different proceedings, perhaps even in the courts. It is also about the issue of major criminal cases, which I hope we can come back to. How can we ensure that some of the really resource-intensive criminal cases can be organised in a different way, so that time and space are also released in the courts?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-291	Madam President, I would like I almost have to pick up where Andreas Carlson left off. It's just about Sweden's D seats. There is a budget demand from Sweden's D courts, and there is a grant from the government that does not meet up with the request. It will have consequences; it is the overall assessment from the Swedish D courts that there will be consequences. It is about the ability to deal with the cases received in the courts but also about the fact that you may have to resign staff within the Swedish D courts. It is clear that it will be difficult, if the government says that this should be followed over time, to re-recruit people who have left the business and re-train. At least one judicial authority is always being abused by the government, and at the moment it is the courts that are being attacked. In fact, I would like a justification for this. What is the reason why you do not live up to the budget demands that Sweden's D's courts have made? My second question is about the correctional system. We see that we have a very strained situation in our institutions. At the same time, since 2015, we have had an established system within Europe that means that foreigners who are EU citizens and who commit crimes in Sweden will serve their sentences in their respective home countries. Some 3 000 foreigners are admitted to our prisons each year, and about 50 people are allowed to serve their sentences in their respective countries. What measures has the government taken to make the work that has been in place since 2015 much better, so that European citizens who commit crimes in Sweden much more serve their sentences in their own home countries and thus relieve the very strained prison service that we have in Sweden today?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-295	Madam President, I would like I think we should be a little careful with the words. This is a budget that involves a strong commitment to the entire judiciary – the whole legal chain – with SEK 700 million for 2020. It will grow to well over SEK 1 billion to 2022 as proposed. If we look at the Swedish National Courts, they will receive an additional SEK 454 million in the autumn budget and the budget proposal that is now available. Nevertheless, it is the reality that we have to relate to. But we say openly and honestly that we will follow this over time. The authorities must test their costs, and they must do so in this situation as well. But it is not that we abuse an authority that receives SEK 454 million in increased funding over a very short period of time because we see that there is an increased amount of work for the agency. Again, we show in this budget that we are prepared to provide more money when needed, and we can do so in the future also if necessary. As far as the prison system is concerned, I can share Adam Marttinen's frustration that some of those in Swedish prisons and prisons should not actually do so. They should serve their sentences in their homelands. There is a system in which countries agree to receive their citizens and people associated with these countries. But too little is done. I will come back in a fairly short time with new proposals in this area to ensure that we do our homework in the absolute best possible way. But then it is also based on other countries taking on their responsibilities.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-300	Madam President, I would like I think there are differences of opinion about Sweden's D courts – about the appropriations that the government actually allocates and what Sweden's D courts think they need. It will have consequences, and we will have reason to discuss why the appropriations needed in this budget were not added. If you say that you should study this over time and perhaps come back, then it is too late, as I have said in previous speeches. This needs to be done now. This system has been established since 2015, i.e. about as long as the government has been in power. At the same time, we have seen that, today, fewer people are expelled and served their sentences in their home countries than when the government took office. Then the natural question is: What is happening at the Government Office? Is this question being dealt with at all? Why has nothing been done in the five six years in power? There must be a plan to facilitate the work of ensuring that those who are going to serve their sentences in their home countries also do so.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-302	Madam President, I would like It is true that the authorities today have a responsibility to try to make this possible but have not done so sufficiently. That is why the government will come back on this issue. On the other hand, not everyone in prisons is subject to these rules. It is for those who sit in the future that the regulations apply. However, it is nevertheless important to work with it, as it would free up the capacity of our own institutions. It is therefore an important issue, and I will be coming back to that shortly. I note that in this report we are discussing a large pool of forces for the whole of the judiciary, and the expansion that we are now making will have an impact on both greater security and reduced crime in Sweden. I am absolutely convinced of that.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-304	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in a serious situation where serious crime is spreading. The legal system's need for resources increases and never seems to be adequately met. Pressure is increasing more and more every day. While the government seems to lack insight in the area and drag its bones, innocent people are affected. Not a day goes by that we are forced to see how gross criminals destroy the security of ordinary honest people, as the government stands fallen. This government not only lacks substance policy enough to do something about the situation. It also lacks the ability to see the whole. The justice system needs to be seen as an entire chain. If the police receive increased resources, the remaining parts of the judiciary also need additional resources to be able to meet the effects of a resource enhancement to the Police Authority. It's about logical consequence thinking. The prison service is today a running point. There is a need to significantly increase the number of places in prison, and this is an emergency. Both prisons and detention centres are close to maximum capacity and in some cases are already overcrowded. As it takes time to expand existing institutions and build new institutions, there are no quick solutions here in Sweden. This train's already gone. One option that the Swedish Democrats have highlighted is to rent places of employment abroad, not to save money – at least not in this situation – but to overcome the acute shortage that exists today. With this as a starting point, more staff will also need to be employed to the Prison Service in order for a satisfactory operation to be carried out. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose an increase of SEK 1.9 billion in funding to the Swedish Prison Service in relation to the Government's proposal. If the government has an adequate alternative to the lack of space that can be quickly implemented, please explain this option here and now. One of the most important issues for the Swedish Democrats is to strengthen the judiciary and ensure that the number of police officers increases, and not just to the numerary. There should also be policemen out in the streets and squares. Today, unfortunately, the number of police officers is falling where they are most needed, namely in crime prevention, intervention and investigative activities. On the other hand, police presence has increased markedly in support and service, intelligence and the National Operations Department. The government says that by 2024 another 10,000 police officers will be employed. However, the number of police officers and civilian police employees is unclear. But you can't just increase the number of police employees. The Police Authority also needs to be more efficient and to make better use of existing resources. Today, the police department covers the police force with civilian police officers. Senior police officers are needed in police activities and as support activities for police officers. However, it is important to bear in mind that civilian police workers cannot replace police knowledge and experience. And based on what society looks like today, it is a competence that should not be underestimated. However, there is an untapped opportunity to strengthen the Police Authority, and it is already trained staff who have gone to other workplaces because of poor conditions, poor wages and so on. We need to attract these people back who would be an invaluable resource in the work of a stronger police authority and a safer society. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to carry out a targeted salary initiative, where each individual police officer receives an average salary raise of SEK 6 000 and paid police training and that there will be an increased focus on health and safety issues. This will not only increase the attractiveness of the Political Authority as an employer for re-recruitment, but also ensure that existing employees at the agency remain. The Swedish Democrats have therefore budgeted for an increase of just under SEK 2.7 billion to the Swedish Police Authority in relation to the Government's proposal. The addition shall also finance the employment of administrative staff who can relieve the police. A trained police officer's duties today involve a great deal of administrative work, and that obviously takes time from the purely police work. In this way, the police are able to work more effectively. A good example used by the National Operations Department is an administrative group called Operational Investigation Support. The group relieves police officers with data processing, prosecution presentations, easier interrogations, administrative systems, travel bills and more. The assistance provided by Operational Investigation Support could benefit more investigation departments within the Police Authority and should be implemented in more departments. In order to relieve the Police Authority further, the Swedish Democrats want to reintroduce the emergency services, which were abolished in 2012. The emergency police could relieve and streamline the police's work, for example by helping with guarding missions and transport, maintaining order in the event of accidents and disruptions in infrastructure systems, etc. The work of the Security Service must also be given priority at a time when people are returning from terrorism in the so-called Islamic State, where they are already back and commit crimes, where legislation lags behind so much that expulsions of security threats cannot be carried out, where we cannot keep them in custody and where we cannot take the citizenship of terrorists away from them. We must do everything we can to keep our citizens safe. We must provide the Security Service with more resources to monitor these returning Islamists and other security threats on a point-by-point basis. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats choose to invest an additional 210 million for 2020 in addition to the Government's contribution. The Swedish people have had enough of fair speech and patch-and-paper solutions. They want to see action. They want to see a government that is really taking measures that have sustainable and long-term effects. They want to see their daily lives become more secure, albeit in small steps. What the government shows up so far doesn't impress me and it doesn't impress much of the police force. Nor does it impress the Swedish people by polls to judge. However, the most obvious failure of pyttipanic policy is measured in human tragedies. Last Sunday, a 12-year-old was beaten by a youth gang in Sköndal. A girl in Hallstahammar was dragged into a shrubbery and raped the night of Sunday. A woman in Sundbyberg was robbed and raped only a few weeks ago. All of these are human tragedies, and the state and society need to mark it hard. To have the muscles to make this mark requires a completely new approach, combined with more resources. In none of these areas, the government delivers. Sweden needs a new policy. I'm in favour of reservation 29.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-322	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking you for an interesting and good debate, with a tense shift of lines, on this area of expenditure. Today, we have devoted ourselves to discussing how the police, but also the entire judiciary, should use their money and prioritise their activities. We are all agreed on the goal: we shall be safe. Security should increase, and crime should be reduced – or stopped. However, we have slightly different priorities in terms of how the objectives are to be achieved. One area that I think there is far too little talk about and that needs to be highlighted more – that is forgotten – is violence against women. I'm going to take the liberty of focusing a little bit on that crime category. We have recently been reached by reports of terrible crimes – assault, rape and threats – which sometimes lead to death and which, incomprehensiblely enough, in most cases are carried out by relatives. In recent weeks, we have also been reached by reports not only of death but also of very serious assault. However, there are victims who are so incredibly brave that they go public and show off their injuries. It allows open negotiations, and this opens our eyes – on you, on me and on the whole of society – because it looks like this. They say: Stop this! We also know that we have problems nailing the men-- because it's usually men-- who ruin the lives of thousands upon thousands of young women and girls who are forced into prostitution. Who, then, are the women who are victims of prostitution? Yes, they are often vulnerable, vulnerable women with a tangled background. Not infrequently they come from poor countries in Europe, and they are very vulnerable. It is a trixant with the Sex Purchase Act, the Sex Crime Act and the Act against Trafficking in Human Beings to get these traffickers. We also know that pornography is a victim. Men who can get caught up in porn addiction constantly move the limit of what gives a kick and satisfaction. Violence pornography is filmed abuse, nothing else, and this happens despite the fact that it is forbidden to depict violence scenes in still and moving images. This is something our children and young people have free access to in their mobile phones. In its proposal, the government states that increasing access to the internet and smart mobile phones may have contributed to some extent to an increase in certain types of sexual offences. That is quite right, I think, and that is why we expect the government to come up with proposals in this area as soon as possible to curb this. Here too, women are the most vulnerable, but no one dares report. Why? Because there is an incredible amount of money in the pornography industry. It is threats and harassment, and the victims simply do not dare. How, then, can it go this far? We know that there is good work in the police in many places, but we believe that increased knowledge is necessary both in the police and in the judiciary as a whole. The Damberg Government told us here about criminal measures that are put in the lake to curb this, which is great, but we also need to get sharper at working preventively. The vulnerable women are victims of crime and need adequate support, care and protection. When I was on the municipal board in Nora, we had on our table to process a project application – a grant application. Nora has no private shelter, but we had to deal with an application for a grant to the women's house in Örebro. It's a shelter for women. Why is that? Why is it that the women's movement must be responsible for its own funding? What other victims of abuse or abuse must themselves finance their own treatment? I believe that this is in the structures and that we need to take a major interest in finding a long-term solution to the protection of women who are victims of violence. The report states that much remains to be done. The National Security Survey shows that women are still more insecure in their residential area than men. We see a sharp increase in the number of reports of sexual crimes and increased lethal violence against women. We have recently formed a network here in the Riksdag, on the subject of violence against women. Together, we will highlight and support proposals that we can all support, as well as informing ourselves and disseminating knowledge of good examples. We will see to it that there is more talk about this in this House – not less.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-331	Madam President, I would like The Chancellor drew my attention to the fact that I did not agree to a reservation, which I naturally want to do. I'm in favour of reservation 26. The previous President did not give me the opportunity to answer the question I received from the Minister for the Interior either, so I would like to do that. I think it is a little silly to stand in this Chamber and say that the Moderates are making great savings on prevention when I am absolutely convinced that the Minister for Home Affairs has read our budget and knows that what we are doing is a change from targeted state subsidies to general state subsidies. That is exactly what many Social Democratic local politicians out there are calling for, that is, greater freedom around the money. In addition, in our moderate budget, we allocate 2 1⁄2 billion more to municipalities just next year. It is money that can go, for example, to avoid the savings at school that the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party are now implementing in Malmö – up to one in ten teachers. It is easy to talk about prevention, but you also have to live as you learn. I would like to say to the Minister for the Interior: if it is so important with money for Delmos – I think it is 500 million, something – then think how much can be done with five times more! That's what the municipalities would get with the Moderates' budget, already next year. I believe that this is the last debate of the Committee on Justice before Christmas leave, and to conclude a little positively, I would like to wish everyone – including the Minister, of course – a really merry Christmas.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-335	Madam President, I would like We in the Moderates are of course behind all our reservations, but for time winning we choose to demand approval only for reservation no. 4. Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate Sweden's very large aid budget. We spend an enormous amount of money on aid in Sweden, and there is also great popular support for Sweden as a rich country to be a generous donor. I think most Swedes answer yes to the direct question: Should Sweden have generous aid? It is strange, however, that in the Swedish debate we have not spoken more about aid given its very large allocation. I do not think, for example, that most Swedes know that we are spending almost twice as much money today on aid as on the police. Madam President, I would like I think most Swedes answer no to the direct question: Is it the right priority to spend twice as much money on aid as on the police? Since we spend so much money on aid, it is also reasonable to ask the question: What does the money get me? Madam President, I would like The Moderates protect taxpayers' money. I personally say that politicians do not have money, but politicians take money. The money we take to spend in the state budget must be spent well, and no other policy area has been allowed to slide in the way that aid has done. The Moderates want to prioritise differently and do not support the principle of budgeting that 1% of GDP should go to aid. It is simply not a reasonable budgeting principle that you first decide how much money you should spend in one area and then ask yourself what to do for the money. It is a much more reasonable principle to ask the first question: What do we want to do? Then you should ask yourself the question: How much does it cost? The Moderates therefore propose that aid be provided with a four-year financial framework – exactly the same model as we have for research and infrastructure, for example. Assistance shall have performance targets, not payment targets. Madam President, I would like Everyone should agree that aid is really a necessary evil. In a perfect world, it wouldn't be necessary. Therefore, the Moderates want to see a zero vision for development aid by 2030. I would like to draw your attention to everyone who listens to us saying that we have vision and nothing else. Everyone in this House knows about Agenda 2030. 192 countries are committed to achieving 17 global targets by 2030. 192 countries have thus promised to work separately and together to achieve these goals. When the objectives are achieved, development aid, as we feel it today, will be irrelevant. Since 192 countries are committed to achieving the 2030 targets, we have said that we want to see a vision that aid will no longer be needed after that year. Everything else would be strange, and the zero vision is simply about us taking Agenda 2030 seriously. This is not the same as the Moderates taking development aid out of the toolbox after 2030, but we simply have a vision that it will no longer be needed after the year in which the 17 global goals will be achieved. It makes sense, and it is consistent. Note also that we are talking about development aid, not humanitarian aid. For those who are not familiar with the development debate, it may not be self-evident to know the difference between development aid and humanitarian aid. Humanitarian aid is emergency aid such as clean water, food and supplies for people in disaster. It can be about children in Yemen or people in places that have been exposed to natural disasters. Humanitarian aid is therefore the core of aid, which prevents death and relieves distress and which, unfortunately, will always be needed. There we have a duty to contribute. Development aid, on the other hand, is more long-term aid, which is about helping countries to build functioning institutions, health care and so on. These are things that each country in a better world should manage on its own. Madam President, I would like The vast majority of all aid is development aid. A lot is good, but too much is actually not good. Some are even bad. For example, it is bad that Swedish taxpayers spend SEK 70 million on a project in Ukraine to promote equal budgetary work. This is something that, according to Sida itself, has led, among other things, to the authorities having adopted a feminist snow clearance. This is not good aid and I do not think we should spend taxpayers' money on it. I have noticed that Sweden's Minister for Development Peter Eriksson has said several times recently that the Moderates are campaigning against aid. It's just as wrong as boring rhetoric. One must be able to have a discussion on the effectiveness and results of an area of expenditure that receives twice as much money as the police receive – not least in Sweden, which is one of the world's largest donors of aid. It is the government's responsibility to ensure that the tax resources spent on aid are used in the best possible way. Regular reports of irregularities and corruption scandals show that this is unfortunately not the case. Goodness cannot be measured in the money spent, but in actual results. Sweden would need to reduce the number of cooperation agencies in order to have better control and influence over how Swedish aid is used. We believe that focused aid is important, as the Riksdag has already decided. It is important to prioritise and state that Sweden cannot actually do everything. The Moderates want to see fewer bilateral cooperation, fewer UN agencies and fewer thematic areas for aid. But where we put the resources, it should be with tip. And what do we want to do? From the Moderates' side, we want to prioritise what is effective and what Sweden has been historically good at. This includes increased focus on humanitarian aid, climate and gender equality. This also applies to institution building and global health, such as vaccination programmes. I would particularly like to highlight vaccination programmes as effective aid. A great deal of you will certainly be asking for a reply to my speech and saying that aid in the form of vaccination programmes is a far too simple aid and that you must not get caught up in aid that can be measured if you want to change the world. Vaccination programs may be simple-to-measure aid, but it leads to real results, and it saves lives. In addition, it helps to face one of our greatest threats right now, antibiotic resistance. If you vaccinate, you don't get sick, and then you don't need antibiotics either. In a world where the needs are endless but where the resources are not, it is important that we ensure that Swedish taxpayers' money goes to the aid efforts where they are most useful and where we can see results. This places demands on performance monitoring, transparency and the ability to dare prioritise. Swedish aid cannot do everything, but where Swedish aid works, taxpayers should see the results of their giving. Madam President, I would like These are important issues, and I could stand here for a long time and talk about this. But the time is not quite enough, so I'll finish with a little summary: The Moderates want to continue to see generous aid, but Sweden cannot do everything. Therefore, priority and focus must be given to aid. The Swedish budget is not infinite either. That is why one cannot have a single area of expenditure that must run away as the aid has done. We must have the courage to give priority to the great needs we have at home. Goodness cannot be measured in spent crowns, but in actual results.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-356	Madam President, I would like The Moderates therefore choose to reduce the allocation to the aid budget, which we naturally welcome. Sweden must be able to see itself in the mirror and realise that we do not have an inexhaustible treasure chest. I also fully understand that for a party that has been behind the 1% expenditure target principle for a very long time, it may feel a little sad to give it up. I therefore have great respect for the fact that you are taking this step. But I have not asked for a reply just to commend you, but I am also going to ask you a question. What worries me a little bit about how the Moderates put this up is that they choose to deviate from the share-based spending model and move to a fixed amount of money. Depending on the economic development in Sweden, this means that this model can give us an aid framework that is below 0.7%, potentially. In the budget motion, you write this: the appropriations will always be well above the UN's target of 0.7% of GDP. I suspect, of course, that this is a precondition. However, I wonder whether what you are writing means that you still stand by the fact that aid should always be at least 0.7% of GDP.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-360	Madam President, I would like What the Moderates are proposing is a completely new budgeting principle for aid, which leaves the twitchiness of the current budgeting principle. Instead, aid is provided with a four-year financial framework. This means that aid will have a long-term playing field with a four-year allocation. This has to be followed continuously. But the most important thing is what you do. You have to start by asking yourself what you want to do and then ask yourself what it costs. The Moderates will always be a party that stands up for international agreements. At the moment, the UN recommendation is that aid should be 0.7% of GDP. Then it is reasonable that, in the light of the fact that we have major international commitments in Agenda 2030, we should commit ourselves to a level of ambition equivalent to approximately 0.7%. As I said, we have to start with the question of what we want to do and then ask ourselves what it costs, not start by asking ourselves how much money we should spend in one area and then ask ourselves how we should spend the money. We have a zero vision for aid by 2030, so of course we think it is reasonable to review and revise the recommendation the year after the implementation of Agenda 2030.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-364	Madam President, I would like The expenditure target of 0.7% of GDP is not an agreement, it is a recommendation. In your budget motion, you argue that a very large budget can lead to quality deficiencies. Since you have to sort of get the money for projects, you may be looking between your fingers with the flaws of partners. We have a proposal that means that you can solve this problem by establishing an instrument that allows Sida to fund aid funds that are recorded as ODA and that aid funds can thus be allocated and funded. That way, you don't have to rush out bad decisions. Is this proposal something that you would be willing to support? After all, it provides an opportunity to establish a new instrument that meets the problems you describe in your exercise.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-368	Madam President, I would like We Moderates want focused aid, i.e. fewer thematic areas. What we want to prioritise is what is effective, and Sweden has been historically good at that. So you don't have to reinvent the wheel. Many of the examples of poor aid – I mentioned SEK 70 million for equal budgetary work in Ukraine – are probably examples of aid that has been rushed out precisely to spend the right amount of money. We think that is wrong. It is possible that the proposal put forward by Ludvig Aspling is a good one. We believe that our new budgeting principle with long-term rules of play and a framework for four years will mean that the type of aid that we have seen will not continue.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-371	Madam President, I would like The fact that the Moderates protect high income earners does not come as a surprise. Yet, in this troubled time, to shoe at the expense of the world's most vulnerable is surely the height of distastefulness. During their time in government, the Moderates introduced a number of tax cuts that favored them with high incomes, while those with low wages had to settle for some extra hundred a month. In addition, the RUT deduction was introduced, which is largely used by high income earners who could easily afford to pay what it costs to have someone cleaning their homes, helping their children with homework or, as in some cases, for a bartender at festive events. But the Moderates have not contented themselves with this. Their budget now proposes, for example, that 10 billion be saved on sick people in order to reduce the tax on financially wealthy people – above all, it is men. To make a comparison, Ulf Kristersson is proposed to receive SEK 10,000 in tax reduction each month, while a worker will have to settle for around SEK 300. Despite the savings of 10 billion on sick people in Sweden, the Moderates' budget still lacks money to cover all their reductions in tax revenues. That is why they also want to reduce aid considerably. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Magdalena Schröder why the Moderates would rather introduce tax incentives for the rich than preserve aid for those in the world who have the worst.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-376	Madam President, I would like The Moderates give priority to the core and security of welfare. It's hard to prioritise, but you have to be able to do that. For us, the starting point is to protect taxpayers' money. You're supposed to get currency for your tax money. And it's not really okay that in this country you pay the world's highest marginal taxes and yet you can't feel safe when you're out walking, that the state failed with one of its most fundamental tasks. That is why our budget gives us a different priority. We spend more money on the municipalities. We're spending more money on the police and the justice chain. There are several areas of expenditure that can be reduced, and aid is one of them.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-379	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Schröder makes it sound as if the amount that Sweden gives in aid well covers the needs that exist in the world and that if the aid is only more efficient, Sweden can give less. According to the OECD-Dac report, Sweden is top-notch in the world when it comes to aid effectiveness, so the Moderate thesis already falls there. Civil organizations and reports show that inequalities in the world are increasing, and so is hunger. The effects of the increasing number of long-term conflicts are that more people are exposed to sexual violence, that fewer children have access to education and that more are forced to flee. To overcome this, re-allocation of resources and fair trading conditions are necessary. But until we have a world where no man's human rights are violated, at least one percent of the bni will go to aid, so Ulf Kristersson will have to wait to get 10 000 SEK more per month through tax relief.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-382	Madam President, I would like Yes, the needs are very great. The needs are almost endless, but they are not the resources. You have to have the courage to give priority. That is why we Moderates say that we must ensure that the tax money that we spend on aid efforts should go to those that bring the most benefit to each crown. So it is not wrong to bet on low-hanging fruits that give the most results for each bet crown. Swedish aid cannot do everything, and Sweden cannot save the whole world. But where Swedish aid works, taxpayers should also see the results of their giving.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-384	Madam President, I would like I thank Magdalena Schröder for her speech. There is something deeply regrettable in the new turn that the Moderates have made. Firstly, it is about turning the debate from what aid should look like to what the aid framework should cover, that is, how many crowns we should spend on this solidarity work. Secondly, this will be another example, following energy policy and labour migration, in areas where the Moderates leave balanced compromises from the time in the alliance government and years. I find this unfortunate. However, this is not what I want to ask Magdalena Schröder about, but about the priorities that the Moderates say they want to do. It is perfectly reasonable to focus on aid independence. It is good to think about what will happen after 2030, when hopefully we have managed to deliver the goals of Agenda 2030. But should we really be so harsh in our criticism of development aid? The Moderates argue that they want to invest in help for self-help because they think it is important. Is it not wrong, then, to remove what should help self - help? Is it not the wrong allocation to have a zero vision and to focus instead of talking about aid independence and how we arrive at the situation where we might be able to phase out aid on how many crowns are spent on aid? Do the Moderates not focus too much on the crowns and the crowns and too little on the development we want to see?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-391	Madam President, I would like Does Magnus Ek not share the view that development aid is really a necessary evil and that in a perfect world it would not be needed? If we have a resultant aid, the result will be that, as we know it today, the aid will not be needed one day, and that is fantastic. Magnus Ek will be responsible for the answer. Does he not believe in Agenda 2030? If 192 countries have said that by this year the 17 global goals should be met, is it not also reasonable for us to say that we have a vision that after this year development aid will no longer be needed?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-393	Madam President, I would like There are many things that would not be needed in a perfect world. In such a world, we could abolish most of the state's activities. It would be a fantastic situation if we could say that much that is done does not need to be done at all. However, one cannot start from the perfect situation, but unfortunately we must look at the world in which we live and the work that needs to be done. And here the Moderates boom a little. They go too fast to the ideal position we want to achieve and risk removing a job that is necessary to achieve the ideal situation. I believe that, in the period up to 2030, Swedish aid will be needed more than for a very long time, and I believe that both elements are needed, both emergency aid and what strengthens countries to be able to meet the challenges of Agenda 2030. As I said, it is good to have the principle of aid independence in mind, but I believe that the Moderates are in danger of cutting into the necessary work because they are looking too much at the ideal position we want to achieve.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-397	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would ask everyone who listens to the debate to draw attention to the fact that we say a vision and nothing else. Sweden has a zero vision of road deaths but does not stop taking road safety measures for this. Of course, we will not remove development aid from the toolbox, but we have a vision that aid will no longer be needed after the year 192 countries have said that 17 global goals will be achieved. It is important to keep results in focus. If we have aid that is marked by results, the result will also be that one day it will not be necessary.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-399	Madam President, I would like For the Liberals, one of the most important areas of aid is democracy support. It is about support for independent journalists, opposition parties, lawyers' associations, bloggers, activists, free trade unions, women's rights groups and so on. I believe that the new approach to aid that the Moderates have set out risks being a blow to that very kind of aid, and I will explain why. Firstly, the Moderates choose to link their entire approach to aid to the so-called Agenda 2030 objectives. But these objectives do not contain anything about democracy. The objectives are important, but the problem is that Agenda 2030 is a compromise between 192 countries. The consequence of that is that all the demands for democracy, free elections and so on are defined away – so they say that aid is the same as Agenda 2030, they define away all the important projects I just mentioned. Firstly, the Moderates' budget calls for a reduction of SEK 7 billion in aid next year, which also risks hitting these projects. Thirdly, the Moderates choose to reduce administrative grants to Sida by SEK 135 million, which risks hitting these projects specifically because they often require me r management. These are often smaller projects that are more staff-intensive. This is unfortunate. Surely the Moderates could not have completely forgotten the democratic perspective of aid policy.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-405	Madam President, I would like It is positive that the Liberals, as one of the January parties, in their work with the government, contribute to Sweden getting more focused aid. It's good to put results and efficiency in focus. Let me draw the attention of Fredrik Malm to the fact that the Moderates prioritise five areas in their development policy, one of which is institution building, which can also be called democratic aid. It is about democracy, anti-corruption work, functioning institutions and so on. Madam President, I would like Does Fredrik Malm not share the view that some crazy projects are being carried out as a result of the principle of budgeting aid? Or does Fredrik Malm think that the project with feminist snow clearance in Ukraine is a good aid project and well spent tax money?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-408	Madam President, I would like I thank Magdalena Schröder for her reply. Institution building is of course important. But the problem for the projects I mentioned – support for independent journalists, opposition parties, free lawyers, bloggers, free trade unions, women's rights groups and so on – is that they are persecuted by the institutions. They are outside the institutions and constitute civil society. These are groups that want to reform and change the system. The combination of considering the aid only linked to the Agenda 2030 objectives and thus defining democracy away, making major cuts next year and cutting back on the possibility of managing these smaller projects, which I fear will be the consequence of the cuts on Sida, risks becoming a hit against these particular projects. It would be good if the Moderates had a more thought-out policy in this area.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-412	Madam President, I would like When it comes to smaller projects, Fredrik Malm can read in our motion that we want a special focus on small-scale projects precisely because these are otherwise often prioritised away. Priority is tough, but you need focused aid. We see that democracy initiatives also fit under the umbrella of institution building. Madam President, I would like I did not receive an answer from Fredrik Malm, so we can continue the debate on another occasion when it comes to whether Fredrik Malm really thinks that 70 million SEK for feminist snow clearance in Ukraine is an example of good aid.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-414	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are an explicit aid-friendly party. It is precisely because of our concern that we have spent a great deal of time and energy over the past year on criticising maladministration and trying to increase the public's interest in the problems but also the opportunities that aid faces. Despite the fact that the world's poorest, or the bottom billion as they are known, experienced a general increase in living standards in recent decades, major problems remain. Some 800 million people still live without clean water and some 1.8 billion people without basic sanitation. Droughts and natural disasters lead to recurrent famines, and wars and conflicts rob people of a safe childhood throughout the world, a stable everyday life and the possibility of living a life in villages and cities that they can call their home. The Swedish Democrats have always had the starting point for aid to focus on ensuring the basic needs of the immediate everyday life and that a decent quality of life is a prerequisite for assimilation of other, in itself important, civil and political rights. In short: People who do not have a stable and secure everyday life have no opportunity to influence the overall political context. In this year's budget, we have allocated an aid framework equivalent to 0.7% of GDP, which is in line with the UN recommendations but which represents a cut compared to the government's proposal. While the developed world has a moral obligation to help support poor and vulnerable people, the moral imperative is not unlimited. In our budget, no cow is so sacred that it cannot be weighed against others, and it is also important to see Swedish aid from a regional perspective. An aid framework of 0.7% means that we would have the third largest aid budget in the EU, after Luxembourg and Denmark, which today has a budget of 0.72%. In a situation where the investment needs in welfare are excruciating and where the municipalities are bleeding financially, it is simply not reasonable for Sweden to compete in generosity with countries such as Luxembourg and Norway, which are based on completely different conditions. I would also like to stress that saving is not really something we do on our own will, but is something that this government and previous governments are forcing us to do. We would have preferred Sweden to have conducted a responsible and normal migration policy, which would have built much of the expenditure explosion that we are seeing right now, and instead maintained a 1 % aid framework. However, the government has put us before the fait accompli. We no longer have a choice, and I do not think it will take very many years for all the parties in this House to come to the same conclusion. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats, in particular, identify three horizontal problems with how the aid is administered today and will in the future present a couple of suggestions for how it can be better managed. First of all, the enormous size of the budget means that Sida is, in practice, forced to look between the fingers of its party n er. Nobel laureate Elinor Ostrom found that two thirds of the interviewed staff felt pressure to get the money out and that the pressure was greatest at the end of the financial year. To solve this, the budget needs to be smaller, but there must also be a safety valve that allows Sida to fund money that is simultaneously recorded as ODA. This would give Sida the opportunity to reach a target of a share-based spending framework, while poor decisions do not need to be stressed out. Secondly, Sida is far too bad at keeping track of partner policies in terms of salaries, bonuses and benefits, which has led to several high-profile cases where Swedish aid crowns have gone to million fees, membership of golf clubs and exclusive travel for already wealthy CEOs. I therefore asked Sida if they know at all how much leading people from 20 of their partners charge in salary. For 11 of them, Sida has no idea at all how much they charge in wages. For 5 organisations, there is a reference to a specific salary category at the UN or the World Bank, which corresponds to a fee of between SEK 1.25 million and SEK 2.8 million a year. Only in 4 out of 20 cases does Sida know the actual number. In one of these cases, Slum Dwellers International, the Director's salary increased by a total of 332 percent almost immediately after the organization received new promises of money from Sida in June 2018. Another case is the already severely scandalous Clinton Health Access Initiative, where the CEO, a person with a fortune that counts in hundreds of millions of SEK, with Sida's good memory picks out 4.7 million SEK a year. It is clear that Sida, by not making clear demands or even questions about compensation, fertilises a very unhealthy industry culture that in the long run poses a threat to public confidence in aid as an idea. Thirdly, Sida has far too little track of where certain types of aid actually end up in the end, and here I am thinking, above all, of certain development funds, such as the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund, which we have debated in this House before. The Fund gives the Afghan authorities considerable leeway in terms of how they can spend the money and, in practice, acts as budget support to a country that is in no way responsible for that kind of aid. When we held this debate last year, I raised a special examination which showed that the fund was so poorly managed that it probably exacerbated the military conflict in Afghanistan, partly because the widespread, endemic and more or less accepted corruption has broken public confidence in the Afghan Government and led ordinary Afghans to turn to rebel groups, partly because it effectively finances warlords and rebel groups. During the autumn, new and very credible evidence has emerged that Swedish aid money finances the Taliban, which means that a Swedish authority – Sida or the Ministry for Foreign Affairs – finances weapons that are dedicated to killing personnel from another Swedish authority, the Swedish Armed Forces. It is an almost perfect metaphor for the chaos that poorly administered aid risks creating. What the government also doesn't seem to understand is that if we spend 1 00 crowns on aid in Afghanistan and 10 of these 100 crowns embezzled by the Taliban, the Taliban will invest these 10 crowns in terror, creating a need for 200 crowns in aid. Then when we pay out the 200 crowns, the Taliban can scatter 20 crowns and invest them in terror and so on. What Sida needs to do is set up a simple basic rule: Do no harm! If it is necessary to pay taxes to a terrorist group in order to operate on their territory, Sweden must say no, thank you. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of a common understanding that Sweden should be an active and generous contributor. We support this idea, and it is also firmly rooted in our party. However, I would like to issue a friendly warning. Managing aid money with the kind of apathetic, undemanding laxity shown by the government will provide plenty of ammunition to those who want to cut far more than we do in our proposal. It is therefore up to everyone who claims that they care about the aid to show this in action and to dare to be critical a, dare to examine and dare to ask questions and demands.
i-R3YfWXPn3DsAvAhpjTEa1i	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ludvig Aspling! During the ten years I have been active in Swedish politics, I have spent a lot of time – some days I think it is far too much time – debating with party colleagues of Ludvig Aspling. One thing that often comes back when you do this is two fundamental arguments in two for today's key political issues: migration and climate. When it comes to migration, Swedish democrats often argue that we should help on the ground. I think it is fundamentally wrong to try to put these two things – migration and asylum policy in Sweden and aid and development policy – against each other, but we can note that this is something that Ludvig Aspling's party colleagues often do. In a similar way it is in climate policy. It is rarely here in Sweden or perhaps even in Europe that we need to do the measures. It's often somewhere else. I have brought with me this backpack, all the debates and discussions, and I note that in their draft budget, the Swedish democrats are cutting back on aid and the money that will, a little simplified, help on the ground. You want to cut back on the funds that will go, among other things, to climate action and adaptation. So what's left of us doing things somewhere else? My question to Ludvig Aspling is therefore: do not the Swedish democrats end up in a situation where they neither want to do any good here in Sweden nor anywhere else in the world? Is it not the case that they are cutting back on what they had as an excuse not to show transparency in asylum policy and not to do strong climate action in Sweden?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-436	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Ek, for the question! I think that Magnus Ek has debated far too little with Swedish democrats because he obviously has not learned anything along the way. The first is the cliché of not pitting spending areas against each other. It's just nonsense. Everyone who has ever done some kind of budget work understands that. In one budget, all the lines stand against each other. It is that which makes the budget that has the task of prioritising. If you can't do it, you have nothing in politics to do. Secondly, I would like to stress that it is appropriate to actually read the budget motions before going up and taking a reply. In our budget, we make it very clear that we retain the government's support for the Green Climate Fund, which is the main instrument for climate aid. We also retain support for the UNHCR, which is the main instrument for helping refugees on the ground. That is clear in our draft budget. I'm just gonna have to bounce the question back. Has Magnus Ek read our budget motion at all?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-440	Madam President, I would like I have read it at least so much that I realized that it was precisely this argument that was to come. I would like to oppose the Green Climate Fund – which is an extremely important tool – being the basis for climate aid. Yes, it's a very important tool. But climate aid is wider and more. It is also about climate adaptation so that people do not run away. If we look at how we should develop climate aid, perhaps it is not primarily the green climate fund that we should focus on. We will focus on measures that actually reduce emissions. We will connect more with the innovation and power that exists in Swedish business, for example. It may not be best done through a large central fund. Well, I read a lot, Ludvig Aspling. It is similar with the UNHCR. Of course, it is very important that we contribute to this type of organisation. But aid and development cooperation is also about helping in other ways and ensuring that people do not have to flee or migrate. That's where I think you make the mistake. The focus is on contributing to this and similar organisations in order to avoid criticism rather than pursuing policies that help solve the problems.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-444	Madam President, I would like I wonder if Magnus Ek has really thought this through particularly carefully. Is he saying that the Green Climate Fund does not contribute to reducing emissions? That is exactly what Magnus Ek is saying. If so, why does Magnus Ek's own party want to allocate a pretty big penny to that particular fund? That's a pretty good question. Now we don't have any more lines, so I don't get an answer. But that's a very odd reasoning. The same applies with UNHCR. It is a large fund and a large grant, because it is doing very well. What we are talking about here are really priorities between different areas of expenditure. We believe that there must be an upper limit at a reasonable level for how much Sweden spends on this. Look at the regional perspective, Magnus Ek. Look at our neighbours. Finland spends around 0.4 per cent of GDP on aid somewhere. Germany has a similar figure. I don't know all that in my head. But that is considerably less than what we are allocating. In an international comparison, the Swedish democrats' aid movement is very generous.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-447	Madam President, I would like From one to the other: since we have the debate on Sweden's development policy in December 2019, I would like to begin my speech by giving a brief overview of the world and the decade behind us. In a debate that often deals with all the world's misery and how we get to grips with it, I would like to start my speech by recalling that the 2010s were in many ways the absolute best decade of human history. Please forgive the fact that some of the examples go some way into the '00s and ten years ahead. To lead this in evidence, I would like to remind colleagues here in the Chamber that 28% of all the wealth ever created, measured in bnp per capita, was created in the last decade. Extreme poverty was halved, a little bit more. Child mortality decreased by one third. The expected life expectancy increased from just under 70 years to just under 73 years. The proportion of the world's population living under legislation prohibiting homosexual relations fell from 40 to 27 percent. The proportion of countries with laws that protect women from violence in close relationships increased, etc. In many ways this was the absolute best decade in human history. The fact that we have seen these developments is due to increased trade and prosperity. It is because people around the world want to live in freedom and equality. It is because we have had a liberal world view that in many ways has prevailed. Madam President, I would like We should not forget this at a time when authoritarian leaders and conservative forces around the world are questioning the benefits of freedom, openness, trade and entrepreneurship. Nor should we forget that in many ways we live in a darkening time. In many places democratic development is going the wrong way. The scope for civil society to operate is decreasing. The human and civil rights of minorities are being curtailed. The number of people on the run is more than for a very long time. All over the world, we are seeing a counter-reaction to the success of liberal democracy, to equality, transparency and free trade. It is also the reality that Swedish aid and development policy must relate to. It is a world in which developments are in some ways going in the wrong direction. Aid is an expression of solidarity. It is an expression of our willingness not to live in a world where aid is needed. The willingness to provide aid separates Sweden in the darkening time. It is a time when more politicians look within their own borders and look to their own nations. Sweden differs by a desire to work for a better world all over the world. I am therefore both pleased and proud that the 1% target is maintained. We can retrace the content and focus. But the political battle should be just around that and not about how much we should cut back on solidarity with other people. Having said that, the Center Party sees that there are things in Swedish aid and development policy that can be improved. In paragraph 71 of the Government Agreement, we have agreed, among other things, that aid should be focused. This is urgent work. It is not yet completed by any means. Nevertheless, I would like to give the Center Party's view of what such a focus could mean. We see that there are good reasons to take on board the advice from the OECD-Dac which says that we could be more effective if we dared to prioritise a little more. We see that Sweden can contribute to added value where we do the most good or where other parties back off. This could include gender equality, SRHR and education for girls and boys. It can be about climate aid and adaptation. This means that we need to maintain a focus on the poorest countries. By all means, it can also mean that we need to review whether we are going to give priority to certain areas where we do not have the greatest impact. It can be thematic or geographical. This may mean that we evaluate whether nuclear aid to international organisations is always the most effective or whether we can have more impact in other ways. It is a delicate task, but the approach of wanting to make the most of it and to contribute where others back away is the right approach. Together with the government parties and the Liberals, we have negotiated this budget proposal, and we are behind it. On the other hand, we have a slightly different view of the developments ahead. That is why there is also a reservation – reservation 13 in paragraph 5 – which I would like to support. For a long time the principle has been more valid. It is important that the principle of less aid should also be applied when developments are going in the wrong direction. It is a challenge to design aid so as not to inadvertently support regimes that take their country in the wrong direction. This is not an easy thing, because we are no longer living at a time when we are just pouting money into the state budget. Aid has been developed, but it is still an important perspective to take us forward. For the legitimacy of aid, as has been said here before, it is important that aid makes a difference, that it goes to the right things and that it is transparent. Furthermore, we want Swedish aid and development cooperation to work in harmony with Agenda 2030. The global sustainability targets shall be met by 2030. The Center Party therefore believes that aid and development policies should strive to make areas and countries independent of aid. It is not about having a goal of cutting back our aid, but about getting the perspective that we should work for such a reality. We believe that the development policy framework needs to be upgraded in line with Agenda 2030. It is important to assert accountability, because according to Agenda 2030, each country has ownership of combating poverty and striving for sustainability. We must also take this into account in Swedish aid and development policy. Once again, it is not a question of having a zero vision of aid, but of constantly seeking a situation where aid is not needed and of striving not to make countries, areas or people dependent on aid. Madam President, I would like The 2010s were perhaps the best decade in human history, but I hope and believe that the 2020s will undoubtedly be the best decade in human history. I hope that the Swedish aid and development policy will help to make this a reality.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-466	Madam President, I would like Extreme poverty in the world has decreased dramatically in recent decades. Eight out of ten children are currently receiving measles vaccine. World life expectancy has increased to over 73 years, and infant mortality has fallen to 5%. This shows that it is possible to change if there is a will. Unfortunately, the positive trend in decline is due to the increasing number of conflicts in the world. This means that more people are forced to leave their homes, that more women and girls are subjected to sexual violence and that fewer children are given the opportunity to go to school. However, developments are not only backward in the countries that are in conflict. Several countries are also strangling the democratic space. Freedom of expression is restricted by the forced closure of media companies, the silence of journalists and preventing people from organising and demonstrating. There are also countries which, in the 21st century, are introducing laws that reduce women's and girls' right to control their bodies. Reactionary, patriarchal and racist currents – often supported by an economic elite – reap success by targeting the cape at the already most vulnerable and by destroying the environment and climate. Madam President, I would like At this time, a strong policy of equality, justice and sustainable global development is needed. Unfortunately, today the world is characterised by inequality that at least I can find difficult to understand and grasp. The richest percentage already owns as much as the other 99%, and the gaps are only increasing. Oxfam's report Public Good or Private Wealth? shows that the number of super rich has increased with a new dollar billion there every other day between 2017 and 2018. At the same time, 10 000 people die every day because they cannot afford medical care. Rich individuals and companies pay lower tax rates than in decades. If the rich percentage were to pay only half a percent more in taxes on their wealth, it would have been sufficient for education for all the 262 million children who do not go to school and for health care that could have saved the lives of 3.3 million people. Do you know that the wealth increase of the richest percentage between March 2016 and March 2017 could have eradicated extreme poverty seven times over? And then we have parties in Sweden who want to reduce aid so that the rich in Sweden, who have already received large increases in wealth, will receive tax cuts and additional tax subsidies for cleaning and pool cleaning. Aid policy is part of development policy but far from the only way. For every aid crown that goes from the rich part of the world to the poor, over $10 goes in the opposite direction in the form of tax and capital flight. A new economic world order is needed, with a clear redistribution of power and resources from rich countries and rich people to poor countries and poor people. On the basis of the relatively small amount of overall aid, it is particularly important to safeguard aid. Unfortunately, developments in several directions are going in the opposite direction. Donor countries' estimates of reception costs have increased sharply in recent years. The EU is pushing for the use of aid for military activities to stop people fleeing and has increasingly begun to use aid to pressure poor countries to stop people even before they have reached Europe. This is shameful. Madam President, I would like To be able to control one's own body and express one's own sexuality is a fundamental human right. But it is a right that is violated and violated in many countries that Sweden conducts development cooperation with. Lack of access to contraception and sex education, lack of maternal care, strong restrictions on the right to abortion and the use of sexual violence against women and girls in conflict are key obstacles to development and the fight against poverty. At the same time, we see how the forces that counter-betsify abortion rights are active in many poor countries and move forward their positions. Trumps's decision to reintroduce Mexico City policy – the so-called gag rule, which prevents the US from funding organisations working for the right to abortion – constitutes a huge threat to women's rights and is a clear setback to global development policy and its work on sexual and reproductive health and rights. SRHR issues in humanitarian crises are another area with growing challenges. Today we see a clear link between armed conflict and increased maternal mortality, child marriage and sexualised violence. Today, there are several long - drawn - out conflicts around the world, and more people are on the run than ever before. On average, a prolonged refugee situation lasts for 26 years, according to U.N. HCR, so the needs are huge in conflict areas and refugee camps. These include combating child marriage and sexualised violence and ensuring access to contraception, safe abortions and maternal care. Sexual and reproductive health and rights must be given priority in Swedish development cooperation. The government should increase the proportion of aid allocated to work with SRHR to at least 10% of the total aid budget and work within the EU and the UN to ensure that other donors follow Sweden's example. Madam President, I would like The Left Party strives for climate justice. It is the world's rich people who have caused climate change and have the greatest impact on the climate. On the other hand, those most affected are the poor people of the world. The situation is therefore deeply unfair from a climate justice perspective. Capitalism distributes earth's resources extremely unequally between classes, between rich and poor countries and – in interaction with patriarchal structures – between women and men. The United Nations Convention on Climate Change states that it is the rich countries that have the historic responsibility for climate change and which now also have the greatest responsibility for reducing their emissions. In addition, the rich countries must provide support to the poor countries affected by climate change – both to shift their production and transport so that they become more sustainable and to be able to cope with the effects of emissions from the rich part of the world. Climate targets must take precedence over short-term profit interests, and the rich part of the world must take on its historic responsibility. The Left Party therefore wants to see a new climate aid to be used for preventive measures. It consists of new additional resources, i.e. additional funds in addition to the promised aid under the 1% target. Madam President, I would like What I have highlighted in today's debate is just a sample of our motion on development policy. Since the Left Party's proposal for appropriations in the area of expenditure is above the level that the government is allocating, we will not be taking part in the decision on the budget allocation. However, we do of course have reservations about the priorities. I would therefore like to endorse Amendment No 10.
i-QVvmPyz5tvzZ7sAuyH5EnA	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Christian Democrats' reservation on Category 7 in paragraph 2 to be approved. Reduced poverty, human rights and democracy are overarching goals for Swedish development cooperation. It is about large and for very many people life-changing efforts. Therefore, aid policy must not depend on temporary opinions or fluctuations in the economic cycle. Aid policy must be a consequence of the view of solidarity and human dignity. Is every human being unique and has every human being an inviolable value in good and bad times? When poverty is rampant, when 65 million people are on the run, this is what aid policy has to deal with – not when the economic cycle might possibly turn up again. Today, 99% of the total value of goods and services in our country goes to welfare, security and the challenges facing our society. It's about taxpayers' money, it's about what becomes common resources – to build a functioning and fair society. This is central, and it is reasonable and correct. That's how most people want it to be. At the same time, there are those who think that too much of our resources goes towards aid and support for the poor part of the world and who claim that Sweden would be a better country if we reduced aid. Madam President, I would like In the responsibility for our neighbor, in the giving itself, lies a dimension that cannot be read in figures and tabular works. As important as generous aid is for those who need a helping hand, it is equally important for every society to protect values of humanity and human dignity. The 1% target is part of Swedish development policy, but it is more than that. It is also a measure of the will and ability to look beyond national interests and self-interest. The fact that Sweden maintains the 1% target is also important from the perspective that the EU is shrinking the aid budget for the second consecutive year. When this is said, it should also be said that quantity must not exceed quality. It must be a basic requirement that each tax chandelier be used as efficiently as possible and help make a real difference to the most vulnerable. In a special study earlier this year, the OECD Development Assistance Committee Dac writes that Swedish aid is ambitious and well implemented. At the same time, there are questions about Sweden's growing contribution to various UN agencies, often in the form of core support. The Christian Democrats have previously questioned the government in order to channel too much of the aid budget into an often, as we know, sluggish and ineffective UN system. This is a way of using taxpayers' money which, in the long term, risks undermining the willingness to provide aid and the legitimacy of aid policy. The alternative, of course, is to channel substantially more support to civil society organisations, which are making outstanding efforts on a daily basis around the world. In disaster areas, NGOs and Christian communities often work in the direct front line. In long-term development cooperation, it is the churches that, through local contacts, have the best conditions to work efficiently and in the long term successfully. This must be taken into account in a completely different way from today. Madam President, I would like The former UN Human Rights Envoy Heiner Bielefeldt has said that human rights without religious freedom are of no value. The right to practice and express one's religion is a cornerstone of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. It must also be in the design of Swedish development cooperation. Therefore, new country strategies that are developed must always include an analysis of the situation regarding freedom of religion and belief. Unfortunately, the government's commitment to these issues has shone with its absence – it concerns both religious freedom and persecution. I have never heard a Swedish minister discuss the fact that Christians are the most persecuted religious group in the world. In conclusion, the Christian Democrats highlight three areas of particular concern in aid policy. Firstly, the fight against poverty must be intensified. World Bank statistics show that poverty reduction has slowed down in several places around the world. To achieve the first two objectives of Agenda 2030, efforts are now needed. Secondly, Sweden, together with other countries, must make a greater contribution to helping people on the run. In most cases, life in refugee camps and temporary housing is passivating and directly unworthy. Thirdly, democracy must be developed and protected. Around the world, democratic values are now under threat. Political opposition, civil society, media and lawyers are under heavy pressure. Support for these institutions and groups must be strengthened. Madam President, I would like In order for aid to have an impact and enable a better life for people, respect for human rights, but also a willingness to combat corruption and abuse of power, is required. In Palestinian areas, we have long seen how that will is lacking. Incitement to violence, the spread of anti-Semitism and hatred are becoming more common in the media and in school education. As an important aid partner, Sweden must therefore, bilaterally and via the EU, make demands on the Palestinian leadership. Do not stop the regime's serious violations of human rights and do not stop the payments of wages to those on terror, Sweden must do as a number of other countries and freeze aid to Palestinian territories. Of course we should support the Palestinian people, but we do not do that by holding under the arms of a corrupt regime, which has enriched itself for decades at the expense of its own people.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-507	Madam President, I would like On the fateful day of November 6, 1632, when the fog was dense over the meadows of Lützen and King Gustav II Adolf of Sweden fell on the battlefield, the Swedish Chancellor Axel Oxenstierna was in Frankfurt am Main. He was busy organizing the administration in Franken. The year before, the Swedish army had marched in and demanded to be admitted, which it became. It stayed for four years before it was then driven away by imperial troops. The route between Lützen and Frankfurt am Main is about 200 miles [400 km], and it was five days before Oxenstierna received the death bid. Then he immediately put everything else aside and sent a swarm of letters to Stockholm and everyone who needed to be informed. A particularly important message was sent to the Stockholm Council. The Oxenstierna wrote that the king had commissioned him to work out a solid form of government, and the National Council would receive a draft with first secure envoys. Now it is perhaps someone who has missed a crucial history lesson in high school and who asks the question: What does this have to do with Swedish aid? Oxenstierna's proposal became the foundation of the 1634 form of government that drew up the guidelines for Sweden as a central government and whose structures are still largely valid today. We are now implementing an investment in Sida in 2019 and increasing the agency's administrative grant to ensure effective assistance and to provide the agency with good conditions to implement the government's development policy. An increased administrative grant enables a strengthened field presence not least in the often complex and unpredictable environments in which Sida operates. An increase in administrative appropriations is also important for an increased impact on the democracy effort that the government has also launched. The management team is therefore entirely in the spirit of Oxenstierna. In addition to the administrative allocation, I would like to highlight three more points. The first is the drive for democracy. It is needed to counter a shrinking democratic space for journalists, human rights and environmental defenders, elected representatives and civil society, for example. Intensified climate change is underway, and mass extinction threatens biodiversity. There are increasing humanitarian needs in the wake of new, more complex and deepening conflicts. The need for cooperation to implement the 2030 Agenda and to have an impact on the Paris Agreement is increasing while the multilateral system is increasingly being called into question. Sweden should not give in when other countries focus on aid in their geographical neighbourhood or when they focus aid for business cooperation with the underlying interest in just benefiting their own companies. Instead, Sweden needs to maintain its high quality standards, for it is perhaps in those countries where many other donors have withdrawn that Swedish aid is most useful, for example in countries such as Guatemala, Colombia, Burkina Faso and Cambodia. Even in countries with strong authoritarian features, aid to state or public institutions can contribute to increased democratic space. In the spring of 2018, for example, Cambodian opposition politician Mu Sochua stated that Swedish aid for fundamental reforms and institutions had helped the democratic opposition to strengthen its positions. Thousands of election workers were trained. When the opposition was completely banned in November 2017, she felt that continued aid through state institutions was no longer reasonable, but until then it was a wise way to go. This is an example of how courage, flexibility and local adjustment in aid can make a big difference. Diakonia, for example, has described this well in several different texts. In short, the democracy effort is that Sweden should stand up for democratic principles in all contexts, work to strengthen democracy and express criticism when it is flawed or at risk of weakening. As with feminist foreign policy, the idea is that the perspective of democracy should permeate the work of the foreign administration and span over the overall foreign policy and all the fields of activity of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs: foreign and security policy, international development cooperation policy and international trade and promotion. The second point I would like to highlight, as many other debaters have done here today, is the 1% target. In aid, effectiveness is measured by looking at the extent to which resources make a difference to those living in poverty and oppression. The OECD-Dac's recent review has shown that Sweden is capable of doing just that. Swedish aid goes to the people who live in the greatest poverty and vulnerability. This means that those who are affected by and in greatest need of this budget line are people who lack their own voice in Sweden. On most other issues, we can have a social debate where those affected by cuts can be heard, but that is not the case with international aid. The risk of moving away from a decision in principle on a level that Sweden will pass is that this particular budget line will be particularly vulnerable to reductions every time there is a lack of money elsewhere. Therefore, a commitment of 1% of BNI is significant. A recurring argument for cutting the aid budget is that it is the needs that should govern. But hunger is increasing, the climate crisis is forcing people to flee and democracy is going backwards in the world. Even if all the world's donor countries were to increase their aid targets to 1%, it would still not cover the needs. Today, only 60% of the UN's humanitarian appeals are covered, to give an example. The third and final point I would like to raise is that I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to those who work in the field of aid both professionally and on a voluntary basis. The world's longest river, the Nile, begins with small streams in the mountains. The same is true in many respects of the work that is being done in the field of aid. PMU conducts projects in Ethiopia for women's rights, IF Metall counteracts child labour in Zimbabwe and Forum Syd's members allow women to participate in processes about their own local community. It is these small streams that turn into a large river. Many thanks to peoples' movement and civil society who make outstanding contributions both in Sweden and in the world! Axel Oxenstierna is still overseeing the Foreign Affairs Committee from a board in the meeting room. Now as then it is not possible to make any major upheavals alone – u tan Gustav Adolf no Axel. The conquests of the past have been replaced by a progressive policy and a belief in the power of peace in front of the sword. It is together that we can bring about change. It is never a strong person who can bring about a progressive change for the majority of people, but it is by including and involving people that it can happen. As the African proverb says: If you travel alone, you can go quickly but if we travel together we can get a long way.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-524	Madam President, I would like When Sida collaborates with partner organisations in the field of democracy aid, Sida usually advises them to report results through a so-called input – output – impact matrix. Input corresponds to the resources invested by the donor, output corresponds to what the resources are translated into, such as training or purchased materials, and impact corresponds to the impact that has been achieved on society as a whole through the project. In this way, the donor, which is ultimately the Swedish taxpayer, can see the benefits of the aid. When I read chapter 2.4.2 of the budget, I am struck by the fact that Sida in its own report of results consistently ignores the last step, i.e. what is called impact assessment. Let me take a concrete example from p. 20 so that Anders Österberg knows what I am talking about. Through the FBA, Sweden has seconded election observers to operations in 17 countries. The efforts have contributed to the conditions for improved electoral processes through recommendations to local authorities. Sweden has also contributed to more favourable conditions for holding free and fair elections through the UN Development Programme. ..................................................... The key word here is therefore prerequisites. Sida does not say anything about whether the projects have actually led to the election processes becoming more free and fair, which Sida could do if you wanted to. My question to Anders Österberg is therefore why one skips the last step. Why doesn't Sida, for example, report whether the efforts have led to the elections being conducted in a more free and fair way or if they haven't?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-529	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. Based on what I hear from Ludvig Aspling, it is obvious that Sida can get better in its work.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-531	Madam President, I would like I agree that Sida can get better in its work. But it is the government that must be responsible for Sida's work and that must be able to explain what you are doing. This concerns a budget proposal drawn up by the government parties. It is not Sida who writes the bill. The government does. It is therefore the government that must be responsible for why the results are presented as they do. My question remains: why have the Social Democrats or in this case perhaps the Green Party decided to skip the last step of what is called the impact assessment? Why skip the last step, where it explains exactly what impact the projects have had on society as a whole? It's a very important step. Sida, according to its own guidelines in at least many cases within the field of democracy assistance, should not distribute money if it is not possible to show that the projects have a real impact on society. Why did you skip it?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-534	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the clarification. I share Ludvig Aspling's view. I also think that this should be made clear in future budgets.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-536	Madam President, I would like We see a world that is somehow double. In many places it is an enormous development, economically and scientifically. It concerns parameters such as health, new vaccines and life expectancy. Digitisation and new technologies lead in many ways to a transformation in the world that is also very positive. At the same time, we have the other side of the world with decaying states, huge flows of refugees, major climate threats, extremism, growing xenophobia, immigrant hatred, terrorism and much more. I think we need to look at aid issues and some other areas such as migration and foreign policy from the perspective that what we are facing are not temporary challenges. These are challenges that we, whether we want to or not, will have to relate to and deal with the rest of our lives. This probably also applies to our children and grandchildren. Madam President, I would like This makes it difficult for me as a Liberal to understand the new tone of aid policy that we should have aid only by 2030. What I see in front of me is rather a need for more support in the future, especially on the humanitarian side. We can and will of course discuss individual projects, governance, resource allocation to different areas and some specialisations. We are a democratically elected assembly. On the whole, we and our close neighbourhood, such as Eastern Europe and the Western Balkans, as well as the entire African continent, with few exceptions; the Middle East and North Africa region, everything that goes like a horseshoe around Europe, will have to face for many years to come as great challenges as major humanitarian disasters, flows of refugees and wars and conflicts. Madam President, I would like In this respect, I would like to say that it is important for the Liberals to safeguard the 1% target in aid. We are happy to discuss the content of aid and other things, but it is important to maintain those levels of aid. This is particularly true of the humanitarian side. Year after year, we have seen humanitarian aid as a whole, including globally, suffering from chronic underfunding. It triggers new flows of refugees, new major outbreaks of disease and much more, in refugee camps and elsewhere. Madam President, I would like It is also important for the Liberals to emphasise that the basis for the great injustices and conflicts that we see in the world is the lack of democracy. That's where it all comes from in the end. People do not flee from countries that have free elections and functioning institutions, where citizens have constitutional protection for their fundamental rights and where welfare and inclusive societies are developed. These are the countries to which people are fleeing. Countries that choose the combination of democracy and a capitalist, market economy system of private ownership, which has a openness to the outside world with freer trade and so on develop prosperity and freedom in their societies. This means that you do not need assistance. On the contrary, it is those countries that are giving aid. It is therefore important for us that Sweden has an aid that focuses on democracy. We want democracy to be the primary objective of Swedish aid. We welcome the democratic offensive that has now been announced. Liberals have been arguing for it for decades and have often been faced with great scepticism from aid organisations, who have not thought that free elections are always the most important thing. They may have had a more socialist starting point for their work. We very much welcome this. Now it is up to the government to prove it, so that it does not just become empty words. You have to deliver. Then you have to ask yourself some questions. One example is Mahmud Abbas, President of the State of Palestine, which Sweden has acknowledged. Soon, on January 15, he is in the 15th year as president of a four - year term — the 15th year of a four - year term! If one announces a democratic offensive for aid, one should reasonably realise that it must lead to some sort of consistency. If, year after year, an aid recipient ignores democratic reforms and, on the contrary, develops in a negative direction, it must have consequences for how much resources Sweden allocates. Another example is Tanzania. The government that has ruled the country for tens of years has, year after year, received massive Swedish support. However, we are now seeing a backward trend, especially the pursuit of minorities, not least homosexuals, in various ways. Another example is Cambodia. There are a number of countries in the world that have received a lot of Swedish aid but where we see that democratic development is going backwards. Liberals welcome a democratic offensive. But we assume that this will lead to concrete changes in Swedish aid. It can't just be nice words. Madam President, I would like In addition, there is humanitarian aid. Often Sweden has reasoned that we give ambitious core support to the various agencies of the United Nations and help people in need. However, it is important to have accountability towards the UN institutions, in order for them to act to combat corruption and become more effective in their work. It's very close to our heart. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to answer a question I received in a previous line shift with the Moderates. I couldn't answer it then, because my time was up. The question concerns something that the Moderates mentioned on a number of occasions in their speech: that Sweden should give 70 million in aid to feminist snow clearance in Ukraine. It is said that it is completely unreasonable that it shows that aid is completely wrong and so on. I looked for security's sake at what it is for any project and found on Sida's website an article from 13 February this year about this project in Ukraine. It is not at all in the way that Sweden allocates SEK 70 million to feminist snow clearance in Ukraine. Among other things, the article says: 中 Starting in 2019, the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance invites all ministries and authorities to carry out a gender equality analysis of all budgets. This means that everyone who plans public budgets needs to think about how it affects women and men. – – A gender equality analysis of a budget can, for example, affect how a municipality places public transport at night, so women who avoid night buses for safety reasons can have the opportunity to get off the bus and walk home safely. It can also mean that a municipality chooses to work with schoolchildren's attitudes to gender norms with the aim of getting boys to perform better in school and to make girls feel less stress. ... A great advantage of doing a gender equality analysis in the budget work is that transparency and transparency increase, thereby reducing the risk of corruption, when more people participate and analyse the budget work. ..................................................... I can agree, Madam President, that perhaps this issue of feminist snow clearance is not the top priority for Swedish aid funds. But when I read about the project, I understand that it is much wider than that. In essence, it is good if Sweden through its aid work and its projects can get a country that may have very strong patriarchal structures to adopt a policy that means that gender equality work is strengthened through the budget work. Madam President, I would like There is a danger that in our desire to reduce the aid budget, we will find anecdotal examples that do not really match reality. I also think it is unfortunate for the aid debate if we do so. With this, I would like to thank you for the floor and apologise for the fact that, as usual, I slightly exceeded my scheduled speaking time.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-554	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd start by saying something nice. I appreciate that Fredrik Malm has been thinking about development theory. I don't think he's given enough thought, but at least he's been thinking. This cannot be said of all parties in this House. I would like to ask a simple question about the pro-democracy offensive, which is part of the famous 73-point programme. Fredrik Malm thinks that is important. The offensive of democracy is taking on a very big problem. The shrinking democratic space is a global megatrend. We see this in a wide range of countries in the world. This trend is persistent and also very worrying. I fully agree that this is a problem and that the West should do what it can to remedy the situation. What makes me a little perplexed is the lack of a thorough analysis of what the problem really depends on. When one tackles a major problem like this one, one must first consider what the root of the problem is. Fredrik Malm said earlier that the root of many other problems in developing countries is the lack of democracy. It is a bit of a core of Fredrik Malm's development model. But what is the root cause of the shrinking democratic space? Does he have a theory about that? I would like an answer to that.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-558	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling is asking an interesting question. The answer to it is probably that it is not necessarily the same processes and mechanisms that apply in all different cases. One example may be countries that were liberated after the Cold War and the fall of the Soviet Union. Some of these countries were democratized very quickly, especially in Europe. They became members of the EU, NATO and so on. There are populist tendencies in some countries, but there is still a huge difference between these countries and, for example, countries in Central Asia. They never became democracies, but instead became corrupt. One can discuss in all eternity what this is due to at research seminars and in theses. However, let me say something that I think is very important to understand in terms of development trends and other things. It is that it is probably impossible to build democracy if there are no democrats. Only people who are democratically minded are able to build democratic societies. The fewer people who have democratic conviction and a democratic attitude and the more people who do not want this, the easier it will be to dismantle various democratic functions, institutions, protection and so on. Perhaps this was partly the answer to the question.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-561	Madam President, I would like The reasons that Fredrik Malm raises are, as I see it: one for rapid democratisation, corruption and the absence of democrats. I am sure that is a very important reason. I think so, too. Personally, I would perhaps add to China's development model and China as a model, which is probably also a very contributing cause. One thing, however, makes me a little perplexed. I put exactly the same question to the Swedish Minister for Development. I wondered what the underlying reasons he believes are for the dwindling democratic space. The answer that I received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to my written question 2019/ 20:485 was something completely different. Fredrik Malm can go online later and look at this. The answer says nothing about too rapid democratisation, corruption or the absence of democrats. This makes it necessary to ask whether Fredrik Malm, who represents the offensive of democracy, and the Minister for Development, who is responsible for Sweden's development policy, do not agree on the fundamental problems. How well coordinated is the democracy offensive? What hope is there that this will lead to something in practice if one does not even agree on such a fundamental thing?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-564	Madam President, I would like I get a little worried when Ludvig Aspling puts words in my mouth. I have never said that too rapid democratisation is one of the problems. I didn't say that. I said that countries in former Soviet states in Europe developed democratically and that countries in Central Asia, for example, did not develop democracy. I argue that this is partly due to the fact that there was a stronger critical mass in Estonia, for example. Probably because many esters were in exile and developed free thoughts in the Western world. Thus they were able to bring them back to their home country after the liberation. The example mentioned by Ludvig Aspling, which relates to China, actually proves what I started with in my previous speech in this shift of line, namely that it is probably not exactly the same mechanisms and tendencies in every direction. We can also see that countries that are now feeling a great deal of enthusiasm about reducing the scope for civil society, for opposition parties and so on tend to learn from each other. Regardless of which continent the countries are on, it can be seen that legislative proposals to restrict, for example, the freedom of speech or the ability of free organisations to operate may be almost directly calcareous in a country in Asia from a country on the African continent. So what we see is that countries that are or are becoming increasingly authoritarian learn a great deal from each other. It shows how important it is for democratic and free states to stick together in order to help the world improve.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-568	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would just like to say that the Moderates fully share Fredrik Malm's view on humanitarian aid. That is indeed the core of aid, and it will always be needed. There we have a duty to contribute. I think most people believe that this is a much larger part of the aid than it is. Rather, this part needs to increase. As regards the article on gender budgeting, to which Fredrik Malm referred, one of the first results highlighted is just equal snow clearance. Another example mentioned by Fredrik Malm was boys' school results. This is of course very important, but it is one of the examples that each country, in a better world, should take responsibility for itself. I just wanted to get it said. I have a question for the Liberals. Do the Liberals see any problems with the twitchiness that the 1% target creates? The amount of aid may increase significantly from one year to another but may also be reduced. Can this twitch make it problematic to plan long-term aid?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-571	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to comment on this Ukrainian project on equal budgeting. One can note that it is about SEK 70 million over a period of eight years. At the same time, the Moderates want to reduce the budget allocation for next year by EUR 7 billion. I think it's hard to bring that argument home. This project is on an annual basis about SEK 9 million. It is difficult to prove with this why it is right to reduce 7 billion in Swedish development cooperation. Then to the question of twitching. It is quite reasonable and intellectually honest to be able to discuss the fact that Sweden has a one per cent target for development cooperation, what we call aid. We do not have that in other areas. Of course you can have a discussion about it. From my point of view as a liberal, I see some risks in abandoning the 1% target. Then we also risk considering aid as something we can take a little more of. Let's have a little more and a little more. Now we have problems here and problems there. In the struggle that always exists in politics and in a democracy, there will always be those who say that this money is needed here or there. It's just that many of those who are recipients of Swedish aid – women and children in refugee camps in Syria, Jordan or Lebanon, people who have been affected by earthquakes or people who have been affected by floods – have no real voice in the Swedish debate. They cannot fight to get this humanitarian or solidarity aid in the same way. That is why I think there is a point, if you are an internationalist, in keeping aid a little off of it.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-575	Madam President, I would like The examples that Fredrik Malm has just highlighted concerned first and foremost humanitarian aid. There, as I said, we are in complete agreement. It is important but difficult to prioritise. Fredrik Malm supports a budget that spends twice as much money on aid as on the police. It'll have to stand for him. It's tough to prioritize. But it is important that aid goes to those actions that have the most impact on each tax chandelier. It is remarkable that the 70 million dollars are being waved away in the concrete example we talked about earlier. 70 million is a lot of money, and taxpayers' money should not be wasted.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-578	Madam President, I would like I'm not waving the money away. I'm just trying to put it in context. It is difficult to raise an argument that we should cut 7 billion from Swedish aid if you justify it with a project that has a turnover of approximately 9 million SEK per year. Then I would just like to note, Madam President, that the Moderate Coalition Party, as the largest party in alliance governments and also now in the latest budget, has maintained the 1% target in nine consecutive aid budgets. It is something that I find very positive and that I am very happy about. Therefore, I hope that one might take a look in their current reasoning about Swedish development cooperation. Reductions in administrative appropriations to Sida and in budget allocation in general, and defining aid only as these Agenda 2030 objectives, I believe, risk being devastating for democracy aid.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-580	Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the best countries in the world. This is shown after examination in the area by area. I'd really like the rest of the world to look like that, too. But world developments look bleak in some places. Severe fires are raging on several continents, reports of species disappearing are increasingly coming and scientists warn that it will get worse the further away from the Paris Agreement target of one and a half degrees we will get. The warmer, the worse. There will be wars and conflicts that go on year after year. A great deal of uncertainty spreads when international agreements are terminated. States do not take responsibility for their people, and their needs and legitimate demands are not taken seriously. Of course, people then demonstrate for their freedom and hope for a better life. Madam President, I would like The goal of Sweden's international aid is to contribute to poverty reduction and development by promoting social systems without oppression and giving poor people the opportunity to improve their living conditions with their own resources. So aid is supposed to be a changing force right into what we now see going in the wrong direction. The world is what we together make it. We have a responsibility for each other that goes beyond national borders and generations. We who live here and now have the conditions to be part of the work that needs to be done for democracy, human rights, transition and justice in the world. It's about solidarity. Madam President, I would like People's chances of life and conditions today differ significantly depending on where in the world they live. In many parts of the world, democratic development is backing up. The scope for civil society is shrinking, free media is becoming increasingly difficult to operate and the vulnerability to minorities is getting worse. As democracy in the world backs up, our work needs to move forward, and it does. The democratic offensive that the government has now launched in development cooperation is central to our entire work. Through democratic aid, we are involved in creating opportunities for more people around the world to live their lives in freedom and with the power to influence their life situation and their country. More conflicts arise in the wake of climate change. As the ice melts and the drought spreads, more people are forced to flee. In many countries, the development of women's rights also goes backwards. Powerful men fight to continue to exercise power over women's bodies and restrict women's rights. The right to abortion is seen as a threat, and women's participation in society is called into question. There is a struggle to deprive women of the rights that previous generations have fought for. But there's a resistance. There is a civil society and other actors on the ground around the world who fight every day for gender equality, climate action and human rights. Civil society is a key player in the construction of democracies and free societies. Without it, that development stops. When civil society's room for manoeuvre is strangled and limited, many steps are taken in the wrong direction for a country's democratic development. Being able to support and work together with them, as we do in humanitarian aid, as well as in development cooperation, makes me proud of Sweden. Madam President, I would like The work that Sweden does in the world makes a difference. Our aid money reaches some of the world's most poor and vulnerable people. It plays a role in their everyday lives and builds up countries in the long term. We clearly stand by the 1% target and use the intended money well. The peer review of the Swedish aid provided by OECD-Dac earlier this year clearly stated that what we do works – that it is long-term and effective and hits right. Through the efforts made in this budget, we are continuing this work. The criticism of corruption in aid should be taken very seriously. But it cannot be dealt with by cuts, but rather by effective measures. We manage to keep an eye on that ball and therefore give Sida targeted funding to both detect and fight corruption within the aid. That's how change is created, not through reduced ambitions for a better world. The world is what we together make it. In addition to the Paris Agreement, the world has also agreed on the global sustainability goals, Agenda 2030. These are clear objectives in 17 areas. It is about helping build security with more democracy, gender equality, human rights, limited climate impact, peace and much more. Swedish aid and collaborations are an investment in our common future. When the world is on fire, it is not a time to turn your back, but to show leadership and the power of change. Sweden does. Let's get on with it.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-592	Madam President, I would like I could not help asking for a reply, because Janine Alm Ericson mentions precisely men who restrict women's rights as a problem that aid is intended to address. In principle, I totally agree, but this raises some questions. A bunch of men who restrict women's rights are the men who run Afghanistan. Afghanistan's official legislation does not treat men and women equally, and Afghan society in general is extremely gender-discriminatory. I'm sure this is Janine Alm Ericson fully aware of. A good example of how bad this works is the so-called EVAW law – Elimination of Violence Against Women Law – that they implemented more than ten years ago. According to the follow-up reports that have come, the main problem with this law is that it is simply ignored by the Afghan judicial system. Police officers, prosecutors and so on do not use the tools available to protect women. In other words, it is clear that the Afghan judicial system and the Afghan police are not very good at this very purpose: combating violations of women's rights. The Afghan national police are also notorious for sexual violence, in addition to being corrupt and having problems in a wide range of areas. The question I would like to ask is: Why should Sida continue to sponsor the Afghan police and the Afghan judiciary when they are actually involved in violating women's rights?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-597	Madam President, I would like It is here that one comes to the heart of how different we seem to look at aid and development cooperation. The Swedish Democrats seem to believe that withdrawing and stopping support would lead to better development. Instead, we believe in continued support for progressive forces, for civil society and for those who want change. We believe that women's rights are constantly being promoted and that the feminist foreign and aid policy will make a difference. We would have liked a development and a gender power regime that has existed for thousands of years to be eradicated in 10, 20 or 50 years. However, I do not think it is that simple. But to stop fighting for better development is not the way forward.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-600	Madam President, I would like I don't really think we're as disagreeable as Janine Alm Ericson seems. When it comes to supporting progressive forces in Afghanistan, I am on the train. But my question was specifically about the Afghan national police. It is one of the organisations in Afghanistan that receives a lot of money from Swedish aid. Is Janine Alm Ericson serious about the Afghan police being a progressive force?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-602	Madam President, I would like What I mean, of course, is that we should never accept this kind of abuse. We must always point this out against, and I am absolutely sure that we are doing so in all relevant contexts. Nevertheless, I think it sounds as if Ludvig Aspling wants to withdraw aid, hinder development and thus see a decline. We must be at the forefront of these issues, where, of course, abuse is never acceptable. That is why we must keep raising these issues.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-604	Madam President, I would like In June of this year, I received a report from the OECD-Dac, which has been partly discussed here already. It is the international organisation that evaluates and reviews aid in the world's countries. It was their peer review of the Swedish development cooperation that came in June, i.e. less than six months ago, and they concluded that Sweden today conducts a development cooperation that gets the highest grade. They believe that Sweden is also a self-evident leader in many of today's destiny issues. We are long-term, generous and effective. At the same time, we know that we need to develop and adapt this work to changes that are taking place in the outside world all the time. We do not conduct aid from the Swedish side for our own profit. But it gives us respect and influence in the outside world. Democracy is, unfortunately, in decline. 2017 was the first time since the 1970s when more people lived in countries that were moving towards more authoritarian development than in countries that made democratic progress. The freedom and dependence of the media are being weakened, the rule of law is being undermined in many parts of the world and incitement, hatred and disinformation are poisoning the debate on society and undermining democratic processes. The gaps are increasing. Respect for human rights is weakening. Women, LGBTQ people and human rights defenders are particularly vulnerable in many countries. Democracy is the government that gives people the greatest opportunities to influence society and their own lives. Democracy creates the best conditions for safeguarding and strengthening respect for human rights and the rule of law. We cannot therefore accept the continuation of negative developments in the world. The government has therefore also decided on a democracy initiative that will shape the work in the next few years in the area we are talking about. Democracy is geared towards foreign and security policy, development cooperation, trade and promotion. We are to build an alliance of like-minded countries from different parts of the world that are at different stages of their democratic development. We switch the development of democracy with greater volume, breadth and focus. We are increasing support for open society, especially for free and independent media and for freedom of the press. We focus even more on combating corruption, which is one of the worst obstacles to development and catastrophic for ordinary people in an already vulnerable situation. Sida has received an increased administrative grant. The aim is to increase efforts to reduce the risks of corruption and to carry out active anti-corruption work on the ground in the different countries where we operate. This summer, Sida also received a new assignment to inventory, develop and strengthen the work with democracy in development cooperation. This is also the way to strengthen democratic aid. Several steps in the drive for democracy have already been taken. When we see positive developments such as Ethiopia and Sudan, we want to support the progressive forces. In Armenia, for example, we have launched enhanced bilateral development cooperation to support democratic development. We also make clearer demands on our partner countries in terms of human rights, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, the rule of law and democracy. As we know, I will also continue to focus on the greatest challenge of our time: climate change. Climate, environment, sea and biodiversity are interrelated. We live in a time when four out of nine planetary boundaries have been exceeded. The boundaries show that the environmental processes that govern earth's stability are now rocking. Biodiversity, including species eradication, climate change and nutrient content in our watercourses are some vital examples. In other words, we have major problems. As always, people living in poverty are the worst affected. We have a responsibility to ensure that their situation does not deteriorate. Much of the earth's population still lives without access to electricity, and many depend on wood and traditional biomass to cook and get kerosene for their lamps. We have a responsibility to lift millions of people out of poverty without impoverishing the environment. I recently came home from the so-called COP, the climate summit that is currently being held in Madrid. It's a blue COP that's also about the ocean. Fossil fuels that fuel climate change have already acidified the oceans. The temperature and sea level are rising. Science gives us a maximum of ten years to halve the world's emissions. Sweden can contribute with policies, funding and innovative technologies to support the transition to climate-smart societies and an ambitious implementation of the Paris Agreement. Climate action is therefore increasing as a share of aid. I started by telling you about the OECD-Dac peer review. They highlight Sweden's gender equality work as an example of a very good development policy. The feminist foreign policy is producing results. Now several countries are following us, and we should be proud of that instead of trying to mock the use of the gender perspective in the budget work – which is a very important issue. We continue our feminist foreign policy closely linked to the drive for democracy, while at the same time changing the work in three areas. This concerns the SRHR initiative, the strengthening of women's participation in peace processes, not least through the work of the UN, the EU and the OSSE, and the promotion of women's and girls' economic and social conditions. The executive and reproductive health and rights of all human beings are about every human being's fundamental right to control his own body. It is, of course, a prerequisite for achieving Agenda 2030. Humanitarian needs continue to increase, Madam President. More people than ever are on the run today. An increasing proportion of Swedish aid also goes to failing and conflict-affected countries. Conflicts are more complex and difficult to resolve today than before. There is therefore a need for increased interaction between efforts for emergency humanitarian aid, long-term development cooperation and peace work. Sweden is a major player in the global humanitarian work. We provide long-term funding and provide resources where the needs are greatest, not based on our own interests or where the media happen to be present. But there are also strong forces today that want to see less of international cooperation, which believes that it will benefit in the short term from countries turning inwards. In Sweden, unfortunately, even the Moderates now seem to join those who want to dismantle multilateral cooperation. It is unfortunate, and it is a dangerous attitude. We face gigantic global challenges, and these challenges require global and common solutions. I wish that more Swedes understand how important Sweden's voice is in these matters. Since Sweden is a major core provider of UN funds and programmes, we have a very important voice at the table where decisions are made. We take that place with knowledge, commitment and humanity. Sweden's influence internationally is linked to the fact that we take a great responsibility. Our commitment to Agenda 2030 is just one example. Now begins the decade of delivery, which is spoken of in New York. Ten years from now, the time for global goals will end. It is a short time and we have a great deal of work ahead of us that cannot or should not depend on aid. The whole economic system, civil society, local society, businesses and politics must deliver. We need to succeed. Our common security and prosperity depend on this. We need to see an offensive for multilateralism in order to reverse the trend in recent years of increased questioning of international cooperation. The EU can lead efforts to strengthen and develop the UN and multilateralism. The great challenges facing humanity must be resolved together. My ambition is that Sweden should continue to be the country in the world that carries out the most effective aid. Sweden will advance its positions and continue to be a modern, serious, reliable and active player for poverty reduction and sustainable development. We will contribute to innovation, create change and make a difference for people living in poverty.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-627	Madam President, I would like On 20 May this year, Minister Peter Eriksson was interviewed in Svenska Dagbladet regarding aid to Tanzania. He put the problem this way: a dialogue with the regime in Dar es Salaam. It is a long process that can end with a reduction in aid. There are a lot of negative developments at the moment. ..................................................... Six months later, the Government seems to have not really decided what he wants to do with Tanzanian aid. What has happened, however, is that the reports on the subject of Swedish generosity, namely the Tanzanian Government, continue to flow in. At the end of October, Human Rights Watch released two reports that testify to a political climate of fear, censorship and repression in addition to the rather brutal repression of LGBTQ people. Or as Roland Ebole, Amnesty International's Tanzanian researcher put it: ..................................................... That doesn't sound very nice, but it's nothing that has so far prevented Peter Eriksson from sponsoring the same government with hundreds of millions of Swedish tax dollars. My question to Peter Eriksson is simple: Sweden's aid to the Tanzanian Government is increasingly becoming a mockery of all what democracy and human rights are called. Will the travesty continue again next year?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-631	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling talks nonsense, as usual. I take the same approach as before, namely that the developments we have seen in Tanzania in recent years are not acceptable. This means that we will probably have to make decisions when adopting the new strategy for that country, which means reducing aid. I have had a dialogue with the President and with several other government ministers. Sweden has extensive and long-term assistance to Tanzania. It is not primarily a question of aid for the state budget, but there are elements that go to school and education in Tanzania, for example. There is also a large and important support for, for example, auditing in the country. It's been very important. It has affected the public debate that there is a strong institution that can review the government and the Riksdag in an important way. Progress is going in the wrong direction in several of the areas we are talking about in terms of human rights and democracy. That is very worrying. We're going to make decisions-- maybe we'll make it before Christmas, but otherwise in January--about a new strategy for the country. I believe that there will probably be a cut in aid.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-636	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much. It is a fantastic Christmas present from the Government that there will actually be a cut in aid. We welcome that. Aid to Tanzania does not consist only of training measures, as the Minister for Development claims, but there is sector budget support. But it's about fungible means. So this is cash that we are giving the Tanzanian Government to carry out certain tasks, but it is cash that they would otherwise have spent themselves, which they have saved and can use for other things. Sector budget support for countries such as Tanzania is totally inappropriate. Every thinking person must understand that.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-639	Madam President, I would like I agree that aid is difficult. Unfortunately, however, it is not our experience that school, for example, is given priority over all other areas. This does not have to be the wrong way to work with long-term support with training for young girls and women, for example, in order to meet the goal that has been adopted in Tanzania that all children should receive free education. We will see what the decision will be in the future with regard to aid to Tanzania. It is today about support for other groups and people working with other starting points, such as opposition and open and free media.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-641	Madam President, I would like When I listen to Peter Eriksson, I note that there is a significant consensus between us, for example on the 1% target. I welcome that. At the same time, I find it worrying that the Minister for Development seems prepared, at least in some respects, to defend those parts of the aid that do not work. We know that for many years there have been problems in Swedish billion aid to Palestinian areas. I was in on that in my speech. The Palestinian leadership supports terrorism and spreads anti-Semitism. This in no way helps the Palestinian people. On the contrary, it hampers dialogue, a peaceful solution and a fundamentally positive development of society. The Minister for Development usually says that no direct support goes to the Palestinian Authority. There is no budget support, and that is good. But it does not solve the basic problem because the support provided in other forms helps to keep the corrupt Palestinian leadership under arms. This is something that a number of countries have realised. Today, it is not only the United States that has frozen aid as long as it continues. Peter Eriksson! Why relativise the problems that exist in relation to one of Sweden's largest recipients of aid, as the Palestinian territories are? And why is it that the government is not taking concrete action to put an end to the spread of anti-Semitism and support for terrorism by the Palestinian leadership?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-647	Madam President, I would like Lars Adaktusson is right that we have a consensus on the 1% target in aid, and I am pleased that the Christian Democrats stand up for it. We can talk about it more then, but I think it is an absolutely crucial issue that we have joint support that is long-term and focused on what is important for reducing poverty and oppression in the world. As far as the Palestinians are concerned, I believe that Lars Adaktusson is actually aware that the great support we are giving is to the UN organisation Unrwa. This is happening in Palestine, but also in Lebanon and Jordan, the countries where there are large Palestinian refugee groups. Today we are talking about 500 000 children going to school and a lot of hospitals and health care. This is essentially what Swedish aid goes to. There are, of course, some who are problematic on the whole Palestinian issue. There is incredible pressure and pressure, such as new settlements in Palestinian areas and the situation in Gaza where Hamas dominates and is in control. That situation is terrible for a great many Palestinians. There, however, Sweden does not have full access to the ground. It is the Israelis who are stopping it today, and I find that unfortunate. It reduces the opportunities to evaluate and see what the money is actually going to do while the whole population is under enormous pressure. So there are major problems here. There are also many democratic problems, which means that there is a need for elections in Palestine in the near future. I agree.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-651	Madam President, I would like I say it again, Peter Eriksson: Keeping the Palestinian leadership under arms does not help the Palestinian people. It has not helped the Palestinian people at any time. On the contrary, the Palestinians have suffered worse. Democracy shines with its absence, and human rights are violated by imprisonment, torture and so on by political opponents. It is reprehensible not to make demands for this to be stopped, to continue with billions of aid as if nothing had happened. It is also taking on a great responsibility. Looking between your fingers at what is going on is jeopardising confidence in aid policy as a whole. The willingness to provide aid is reduced when people see that this only goes on year after year, also at a time when aid is being called into question. Is this a price that the government is prepared to pay, Peter Eriksson?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-654	Madam President, I would like I think that Lars Adaktusson is mistaken if he thinks that if we withdraw the support for hundreds of thousands of Palestinian young people to go to school, something would be better in this area. On the contrary, it would be much worse. Compare the areas where Unrwa exists and young people go to school today with others in neighbouring countries where this does not work, we see that there are significantly better conditions for peaceful development and stability when young people go to school.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-656	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Development about corruption in aid, but before I put it, I have to respond to the statement that came from the pulpit – that the Moderates want to dismantle multilateral cooperation. That is a completely absurd statement, Madam President. The Moderates want to give aid a better opportunity to achieve their goal of eradicating poverty and oppression. The Moderates have said that for the next four years we want to allocate 170 billion to aid, so little sense in the debate! But back to my question. Peter Eriksson is, of course, responsible for the fact that the tax money we spend on aid actually goes to the right things where it is really needed. In recent years, however, there have been quite a few reports of corruption. Some of the headlines are:. Management lived luxury lives for Sida Madam President, I would like Peter Eriksson is responsible for the aid, so how does the Minister explain these headlines?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-660	Madam President, I would like We also have moderate municipal councillors who misbehave in Sweden. We have Ericsson who admitted to giving 700 million in bribes. It's not a unique thing. There are problems in all countries all over the world. Corruption is everywhere. For us, it is a matter of being active and running the fight against this wherever it happens, and we do. We're pushing. For example, we have had a change in the issue that I talked about with Mr Adaktusson just now with regard to the UN organisation working with Palestinian refugees. It has received a new management, and it is, among other things, under pressure from Sweden that it has happened. With regard to aid, Madam President, the Moderates say that they want to reduce it by 7 billion and have a vision of abolishing it altogether. This 7 billion reduction will not affect humanitarian aid. It should not affect climate aid – on the contrary, it should increase. The Moderates usually say that too much goes into the UN system. When I say that the Moderates want to cut back on the UN system and dismantle and dismantle the international multilateral system, then that is not true either. What are you actually going to cut back on in Swedish aid? What is it in those countries where we are fighting poverty or working against corruption and for democracy and for vulnerable people that you are cutting down on?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-665	Madam President, I would like If Minister for Development Peter Eriksson reads Moderate motion, he sees that it is clear that there are five areas the Moderates want to prioritise for the aid. It is humanitarian aid, climate, global health, gender equality and institution building. But to link back to corruption: One way to create better control and influence is to focus aid. In fact, the Riksdag has already decided on this. Peter Eriksson also mentioned the OECD-Dac report in his speech. One of the recommendations there is that Sweden should have more focused aid. Earlier when I have asked the Minister for Development, he has said that work is under way in the Government Office together with the January parties. Sometimes it takes a little time for the government to come to the fore after the Riksdag has made a decision. In fact, this has already been decided by the Parliament. So my simple question is: How is the work going?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-668	Madam President, I would like When it comes to strengthening democracy in Swedish aid and development cooperation, it goes very well. We are working very broadly on this. However, not all parts are ready yet. We have, among other things, given a mission to Sida and are waiting for answers when it comes to how they want us to develop and change this in the future. We also have an ongoing process and discussion with the Liberals and Centers regarding how we should continue to work on this. However, I would like to point out that, earlier in the speaker's chair, Magdalena Schröder said that you should reduce efforts on UN and international cooperation. Now you don't stand up for it either. When I ask what it is you should cut back on, she just talks about what she doesn't want to cut back on. What is it that you in the Moderates want to cut down on? What is it in the fight against poverty, Sida's work or the multilateral? Should we cut back on aid to the World Bank to get rid of the work of trying to get countries that do not work in order?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-670	Madam President, I would like For a while we saw that people around the world were beginning to get better, but now several reports show that progress has turned around. Inequality is increasing and hunger is also increasing. The effects of the increasing number of long-term conflicts are that more people are exposed to sexual violence, fewer children are given access to education and more are forced to flee. Then it is extremely important that we, as a rich country, take responsibility and protect aid. The overall budget now presented by the government prioritises tax cuts for the rich and retains the RUT deduction, which is mainly used by people with higher incomes who want cheaper cleaning and staff for student records for their children, who, moreover, have probably received tax-subsidised homework aid. In order to close the gaps that arise in welfare through these priorities, the government chooses to use settlements for reception of refugees, despite the fact that civil organisations and reports testify to the need for support for poor and conflict-affected people in the world. The government states that it is okay according to OECD-DAC guidelines and – I quote from the budget – to reflect joint responsibility with low- and middle-income countries, which host most of the world's refugees. To take joint responsibility is to pay, as a rich country, for reception without taking from aid funds. My question to Minister for Development Peter Eriksson is therefore: In what way does the poor and vulnerable around the world help us to calculate aid for refugee reception in Sweden? And is it not a little embarrassing that we have cleaning aid and tax relief for the rich rather than giving priority to aid actually going to people who need the support of the outside world?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-674	Madam President, I would like Different assessments of what is important in this world can be made. Of what we work into Sweden, 99 percent goes to our own needs and our common welfare. Furthermore, 1% goes to aid, and a small 5% of that amount today goes to pay for the reception of refugees. Some of this refers, for example, to quota refugees taken directly from refugee camps in different parts of the world, where the costs for the first year are involved. You might think this is wrong-- I have great respect for that. But it is considerably smaller than it was a few years ago. At that time, this was a real concern. A large part of the aid went to pay for the reception of refugees. It went beyond the existing international regulatory framework. Furthermore, the OECD has now tightened up this regulatory framework, and we have adapted the rules so that it will work within the set of rules. Today, therefore, this is more clearly governed by the new rules contained in the budget. It will also make this more long-term and less twitchy. It has created a twitch in aid over the years, looking back at what has happened and how we have used this to pay for refugee costs.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-677	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your answer, which did not touch what I mentioned in terms of tax relief and RUT subsidies, which are still there. So we still benefit high-income people at the expense of poor people around the world. Right now Musikhjälpen is going on, which this year is about sexual violence. The government is working very well to raise the issue of sexual and reproductive health in the world, but it is not enough when the needs are so huge. A few weeks ago, I asked Minister for Development Peter Eriksson how he views the Left Party's proposal to increase the proportion going to the SRHR from just under 7% to 10%. I was given the answer that Sweden, given that we are also giving to multilateral organisations, is certainly giving more than 10%. However, according to the RFSU report, the barely 7% includes what we give to multilateral bodies working with the SRHR. So I'm asking the same question again.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-680	Madam President, I would like Sweden is leading in the world when it comes to work with SRHR. We carry out the work in several ways and allocate a large part of the aid budget to it. However, at least as important in this area is the work we are doing to bring the world's countries around a progressive agenda to put an end to, for example, genital mutilation and other things. It is not always so much about money but about attitudes and cultures, about how to look at these issues and about making sure to have sharper legislation than before. We also know that, unfortunately, on several of these important issues, we have the most reactionary and conservative countries in the world against us. That is why this work is so incredibly important.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-683	Madam President, I would like I have already said in this debate that I am proud of this budget and that we are now securing the 1% target, hopefully at least during this parliamentary term. I have also said that I am very pleased that we will be hooking arms with the government and the Liberals to look at how we can focus on the added value that Sweden contributes in connection with the aid. But we don't agree on exactly everything. I would like to follow up on some of the points raised by the Center Party in our reservation on the future form of aid after this term of office, until 2030 and beyond. I believe that the Government is absolutely right that aid alone should not deliver the results of Agenda 2030. In this respect, politics must be armed with the business community and beyond. At the same time, however, I believe that aid needs to better reflect and hook in Agenda 2030. My question to Peter Eriksson is therefore how he and the government intend to work to ensure that Swedish aid is aimed at countries, areas and people becoming independent of aid. How are we going to link Swedish aid and development cooperation more closely to Agenda 2030? I would also like to hear whether the Government intends to maintain its ambition to focus primarily on the poorest countries because more developed countries have ownership that they must be expected to take in Agenda 2030 in order to combat poverty and promote social, economic and ecological sustainability.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-687	Madam President, I would like I think it is important that we focus on the poorest countries in the world. But there are also other things that need to be taken as a starting point, including when we discuss democracy and developments in that area. There are quite a few countries that are classified as middle-income countries or are above the poorest that we are concerned about – where developments are going in the wrong direction and we think it would be good if we could contribute to a different trend. I do not want to help us target development cooperation only towards the poorest countries in the world. I believe, for example, that it is important that we have cooperation on issues of democracy and security also with, for example, Eastern European countries and countries in the Balkans. For example, we allow a nasty agenda to dominate too strongly in countries such as Georgia and Ukraine from a Russia that feels threatened and undermines the democratic development of the countries in its neighbourhood. If we allow this to continue without contributing what we can for a positive development, we have also, in practice, contributed to their failure to survive. That's my assessment. I believe that it is extremely important also for our own security that we work to broadly strengthen positive democratic development at the centre of human rights and democracy. This also applies to the rule of law, which is what we call the rule of law internationally. It is about trying to contribute to a system in which people's assets and rights can be long-term in different countries.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-691	Madam President, I would like Of course we can list some exceptions here. I think the partnership is a good one. We can add climate aid to that. We may not always be able to focus on the poorest countries, but must look at where we deliver the best results. In my opinion, however, this is more an argument for the fact that, apart from the exceptions, it becomes particularly urgent to give priority to the poorest countries, not least in the light of the fact that a lot of EU countries want their aid to be conditional on, for example, migration management, something that I personally, like the Center Party, are very concerned about. I think my question should remain: is it not important, in addition to the exceptions, that we give priority to the poorest countries? Then I wonder if you can get a follow-up on how the Government works so that we can better link the Swedish development and development policy to Agenda 2030?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-694	Madam President, I would like It is possible that we may differ somewhat in our view of how it works today. I think we are making such a priority in Sweden when it comes to aid. Where Swedish aid goes was one of the main points of the OECD-DAC review, where it was said that Sweden reaches the poorest. Unlike most other countries, our aid reaches the poorest, and we have it largely targeted at the most vulnerable and poorest countries in southern Africa. That is very much the case today, and we are doing it more than other donors. I don't think our differences here are that great. I'm out traveling a lot. I was in DR Congo just a week ago and saw what incredibly great needs are not satisfied there. There I would like Sweden to be more active than before, but it must also be based on the fact that it works – that you have cooperation with the government or authorities that work.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-696	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats set aside 1% of GDP for aid, for efforts to combat poverty and contribute to sustainable development, clean water, food for the day, shelter, health care and, not least, schooling for girls and to increase women's participation in society. For decades, the Christian Democrats have been advocating aid of 1% of GDP in order to really make a difference and help people out of poverty and contribute to sustainable development. I am proud of the humanity and solidarity and the responsibility we feel in Sweden for fellow humans in need. The generous aid policy we have alleviates the distress of many vulnerable people in other parts of the world. Madam President, I would like For us Christian Democrats, poverty reduction, sustainable and democratic development and respect for human rights and freedoms are central issues. The basis for a better world lies in democracy and respect for human rights and freedoms – respect for the equal and inviolable value of all people. We are born free, equal and have equal rights. Unfortunately, the lack of respect for these values is great in many countries. Madam President, I would like Millions of people are on the run and persecuted because of their ethnorelicity. A number of ongoing armed conflicts have hit many fellow humans hard. They have lost relatives, live in misery and have been forced by force from their homelands. Powerful and corrupt autocrats and non-democratic leaders hold back democratic forces and govern societies with violence. They fertilize hatred between different ethnicities and religious groups and impose on society patriarchal structures that hold women back and contribute to armed conflict, hunger, poverty and misery. Madam President, I would like Solidarity with oppressed, persecuted, discriminated and poor is a human duty. That is why 1% of GDP in aid is necessary. Sweden is one of the few countries that live up to 1% of GDP in humanitarian aid. It is regrettable and unacceptable that many countries, including EU countries with a good economy, are not meeting the 0.7% target in aid. Madam President, I would like The United States has said that it will earmark support for Christian communities in Syria and Iraq. Today, Germany and Hungary are providing direct humanitarian aid through churches in Syria and Iraq to needy Christian refugees who have been hard hit by civil war and sectarian armed conflicts. Christian refugees are not in the national refugee camps because of harassment, threats and violence by Islamists. Here it is churches in the immediate area that take great responsibility and help refugees on the ground. Thanks to the efforts of the churches with direct help to the needy, the distress of those affected by international intervention has been alleviated. The communities are in place, have good knowledge in conflict areas and often have the opportunity to distribute the support directly to those in need in areas where armed fighting and the uncertainty on the ground means that aid workers and other organisations do not reach through official channels. Madam President, I would like I have pushed this issue through parliamentary motions and have also invited church representatives from Iraq and Syria to court the former Minister for Development and Foreign Affairs. They themselves have told us of their plight and that the humanitarian aid channelled through national agencies does not reach the Christian refugees. I hope that our current Minister for Development will take this on board and make it possible to help Christian refugees with humanitarian aid bilaterally via churches in Iraq and Syria. Madam President, I would like In 2014, the terrorist group Islamic State occupied large parts of Iraq and the Christian territories of the Nineves plain and Mosul. In just a few days, more than 150,000 Christian inhabitants were violently displaced. They are now refugees in northern Iraq, in the Kurdish region. The civil war in Syria has been going on since 2011. Hundreds of thousands of people have been killed, and millions of Syrians are refugees. Over a million Christian inhabitants have been forced by force to flee by Islamic armed groups. The terrorist group Islamic State's ambition to establish a caliphate in Syria and Iraq has hit Christian communities hard. Madam President, I would like Those living in Iraq need humanitarian aid and help to return. Development projects for sustainable development and, not least, democratic development with regional self-government in the plain of Nineves are needed for Christians and others living in the province in order to increase their ability to influence local development. Madam President, I would like International aid organisations are finding it difficult to help those in need in Syria because of the difficult security situation in the country. It is therefore important to review new ways of achieving and benefiting from humanitarian aid. Therefore, support through churches is important when it comes to reaching even Christian inhabitants in need. Madam President, I would like I chose to devote my speech to those severely affected, even though they are not part of the armed groups with ambitions of power. The Christian ethnic groups in the Middle East need the support and assistance of Sweden, the EU and the UN in order to live in their former homelands.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-709	Madam President, I would like I would just like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of Amendment No 2.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-710	Madam President, I would like In the first stage of the budgetary process, Parliament has endorsed other expenditure frameworks and estimates of revenue than those proposed by the Moderates. Since our proposal for appropriations in the field of expenditure is higher than that of the government, we cannot reserve ourselves in favour of that proposal. That is why we will refrain from taking a position and will instead present a specific opinion. However, we have some reservations on important issues. For time winning, I only agree to one: No. 4. Madam President, I would like The security policy situation is characterised by instability and unpredictability. The defense committee concludes that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out, is a result of that insight. Similarly, the conclusions drawn back in 2017 in the sub-report Resistance to the vulnerability of society and the need for stronger total defence are something that we Moderates take very seriously. Sweden's combined total defence, that is, both military defence and civil defence, must be strengthened. The operational capacity of the units of war must be increased. It requires reinforcements across the line. Today, there are major shortcomings in Swedish defence that we need to address. In the longer term, we must be able to face the increased ability we see in our environment. The contribution that the defence received for this year, thanks to Parliament's decision to approve the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, was important. This has meant that the defense has continued to increase its ability. Another decision would have meant that important improvements had not been made. Nevertheless, the challenges here and now and forward are great. We need to continue manning and equipping today's war organization. Resources are also needed for the authorities for robust emergency preparedness that can deal with all kinds of crises – from cyber threats to forest fires. The strengthening of civil defence needs to be geared up in order for it to go in line with decided military defence reinforcements. Otherwise, the whole ability is limping. The draft budget for reinforcements of SEK 564 million for 2020 presented by the Moderates could have allowed for reinforcements. Above all, our proposal means reinforcements that can increase the ability to develop the defence against cyber attacks and resources to go to civilian preparedness. It takes time to build up defense capabilities. Recruiting and training staff, organising activities and investing in equipment is not a quick process – it has never been quick. Therefore, defence policy must be clear and long-term. The directional decisions taken by the Riksdag are extremely important. And the solid work that the Defence Committee has done to prepare the decision to be taken next year is a central basis. Now the Swedish Armed Forces and others have come up with their proposals based on the reports Resistance and Värnkraft. There is reason to reiterate that we Moderates still believe that the direction that the Defence Committee has put forward must apply. This also mainly applies to the level calculated by the Defence Committee. Around the funding there have been some tours and confusion. It started already in the Defence Committee when the Social Democrats at the eleventh hour felt that they could not support the cost calculations the preparation had made and wanted to release themselves. In view of the fact that cost assessments were a task that we had been given in the preparation, that among our experts there were representatives from both the Swedish Armed Forces and the Ministry of Finance, and that we also repeatedly called in knowledge, it was a strange thing, which also led to the bourgeois parties abstaining from signing the report. Then a few weeks passed, and suddenly a deal was presented between the government, the Centre Party and the Liberals, which was said to secure the very level that the Committee on Defence intended and which the Social Democrats had not been able to accept a few weeks earlier. It was good in itself, but then it turned out that it was not true. The arrangement does not guarantee the value of the appropriations, but represents a lower level than that estimated for the preparation. This preparation does not fall within the allocation currently under discussion in this agreement. And the resources for civilian preparedness are completely lacking. There are no proposals there. Well, then the Armed Forces' views landed. It is estimated that much more money is needed. In addition, it has made its own proposals in a number of ways. There has also been a discussion about parts of the difference between the Swedish Armed Forces' proposals and the preparation that has shown that they have spoken past each other, but I think we have sorted it out now. Madam President, I would like The defence and its economy are complicated and a recurring headache for us politicians. The budget hardly ever seems to last. Fire brigade suppressions to avoid serious reductions have been common, and that is, of course, very unfortunate. Therefore, the Defence Committee and also the Government have devoted a great deal of effort to trying to figure out how costs should be calculated and accounted for. There is also a tightening up. We Moderates welcome that work. A further step in such work would be for the government to make a reality of the Swedish Defence Committee's proposal to introduce an independent body with the task of reviewing, evaluating and monitoring the activities of the total defence. That is something that the committee refers to in an announcement. Now the Minister of Defence has invited representatives from all parties in the Defense Committee to discussions at the beginning of next year. We have had some discussions about that too. The aim is to clarify the differences between proposals and measures against what is commonly referred to as over-planning. The idea is that the discussions will arrive relatively quickly in a written compilation, as a basis for the concrete work on future proposals. The government parties, the Centre Party and the Liberals are bound to the agreement on the economic level they have made, but it will of course be very important to agree on the starting point. It's no secret that we Moderates would have preferred to have seen that the Defense Committee had been reactivated. However, the discussions we have had mean that I nevertheless note that we are now getting a continuation of work with all the parties involved in the preparation, that parts of the Defence Committee's secretariat are assisting and that there is an opportunity to bring together the parliamentary parties as regards the starting points forward. I think that's good. For us Moderates, the perspective is long-term. It is important that the next defence decision allows for further reinforcement of the Swedish Armed Forces. But it happens from a low level. I am happy to admit that when I first entered the Committee on Defence and got into the issues, I was shocked that it was as low a level as it actually is. Our moderate focus is that the military defence grant will amount to at least SEK 84 billion from 2025, calculated on the cost situation in 2019, corresponding to 1.5 percent of GDP in 2025. You can always discuss such figures, but we stick to what the Defense Committee said. In the long term, we believe that we must reach 2% in order to meet developments in our world. I also believe that we must see the need for civil defence in the work ahead. Grey-zone problems and unnecessary vulnerability in many parts of society must be addressed. When Total Defence Exercise 2020 has been completed, I believe that even more people will realise the importance of a broad and targeted work for a stronger Swedish total defence. There is reason, therefore, to look to the future at least with some confidence.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-731	Madam President, I would like At the beginning of the debate, I shall not comment on what Beatrice Ask has said in her speech. I'm sure there's a reason to come back to that in the next line shifts. Instead, I would like to say something about Beatrice Ask as a person. Beatrice has decided to leave the Swedish parliament, and from January next year she will become County Governor in Sörmland. I have been elected for 25 years, and it is nothing compared to the time that Parliament's oldest President Beatrice Ask has behind him. When I have mainly been involved in municipal politics, Beatrice has performed on the big scenes. You have been Minister of Education and Justice and are now finishing this round of your political conscription in the Defence Committee as defence policy. For over a year, I've had the privilege of working with you, Beatrice. Despite our different political paths and experiences, and sometimes despite our different political ideologies and beliefs, we are a bit of a mess in the same form. Where politics is based on conflict and many times is a contact sport, you have often shown the ability to listen and get along. This has meant that I have experienced it as having had a very good cooperation during this year. I want to thank you for that, Beatrice. As a token of my appreciation, I'd like to present you with a gift. I know that early in your career you had to deal with Rutger Palme. Therefore, I would like to present a book about one of my great political role models, namely Rutger's relative Olof Palme, and wish you luck in your new assignment, a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-735	Madam President, I would like I thank you very much for that. It was actually a little too much. But I would also like to thank you for your very good cooperation. What is important in politics is that you can actually distinguish between the thing and the person, but that you also see the task that we have been given by the voters to solve real social problems. You may have an ideological compass and a direction, and you may even have different views from the beginning, but people expect us to come up with something that is sensible and manageable. We have enough social problems to sometimes ignore the stupid conflicts that exist. That is why I think the talks that begin in January are nevertheless good. I'm a little pissed because I can't get the defense preparation in, and I think there's a lot of things you should do. But just the fact that it has been decided that all the parties in the Riksdag can sit down and try to sort out where you have the starting point in the defence economy is so incredibly good. Then I personally find it more fun to be new to work than to be the age president. As a minister, I was also the age president of the Council of Ministers in the EU context. It has its sides, because everyone should always point out how long you've been doing and are less interested in what you're actually doing here and now. I look forward to coming to Sörmland, where the County Administrative Board actually has a very large responsibility to ensure a good level of civil preparedness. There are lots of practical issues where both municipalities and county boards need to take a better approach. I promise that I will use that pass card for guests that you get and come here and lobbe very much from this perspective. So wait, you haven't seen nothing yet.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-739	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Beatrice Ask for her commitment to the parliamentary work and wish her luck with the new assignment that will take place in Sweden's most beautiful region of Sörmland.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-740	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for this! I understand that the President thinks it is the most beautiful landscape. And I'll do what I can to do it justice. However, I have a debate for this week. We will discuss, among other things, the Swedish operation in Iraq. Eventually, as an age president, I will also wish everyone a Merry Christmas before I hand in my pass this time. But I thank you for your kind words. This debate is extremely important, because the Swedish defence right now needs the support of the Swedish Parliament. And we're the only ones who can make a difference.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-742	Madam President, I would like When we debate in Parliament's Chamber today the financial allocations to, among other things, the Swedish Armed Forces under Category 6 we do so as part of a wider context. It is basically about Swedish security policy, about the defence of the Swedish welfare model, about our way of life, about democracy and the rule of law and about the right to express oneself, think what you want and to love who you want. Swedish security policy is about preventing threats and risks to our country, being a stability for the international community and promoting our values of democracy and human rights. Today's challenges and threats to our security are changing, borderless and complex. Security policy developments have deteriorated over several years in several parts of the world. Security in Europe and in our neighbourhood has been challenged. Previous views on security were based on states and a military threat picture. Today, the concept of security has been broadened. The threats can be both military and non-military and come from non-state actors. It places new demands on our defence capabilities. Madam President, I would like With the defence decision of June 2015, the defence of Sweden is again placed in the centre. The defence decision was a long-term trend break in which declining defence appropriations were broken and substantial funds were added to the defence economy. Since 2014, military defence has received financial contributions of an order of magnitude that has not taken place since the 1960s. The defence is now being prepared after a total defence tank where military and civil defence are interdependent. It is a total defence tank that goes beyond the emergency preparedness that we have organised ourselves from before. In the concept of total defence, people's attachment and defence will are central, where the view of the defence as a special interest is not given place. The single most important task ahead of us is to increase the operational capability of the armed forces and ensure the collective capability of the total defense. Therefore, the construction and the investments continue. From low levels everywhere, we now grasp the whole and build all parts at the same time. Madam President, I would like We have constantly sought broad parliamentary agreements, because Sweden's security and defence policy is too important for party and domestic political games. The time when the Swedish Parliament made important decisions on these issues with only a few votes margin must be over. I note that the Government has invited all parties in the Defence Committee to further discussions with a view to further clarifying the economic conditions ahead with the ambition to deepen the platform for concrete negotiations on a defence policy bill. The broad agreement reached by the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals means that for the period 2021 – 2025 an additional SEK 25 billion will be added to an increased financial framework. It's the biggest bet since the 1940s. Madam President, I would like I cannot stress enough the importance of a comprehensive total defence decision in 2020. Therefore, there is reason to draw the attention of the government to the importance of taking civil defence more clearly into account in further work. In the report on Resistance, the Defence Committee stressed that total defence must be based on credible military and civilian capabilities. The report concluded that the military and civilian activities of the total defence must be able to deal with the range of funds that an attacker can use to try to achieve his goals. The defence committee assessed that a strong civil defence will require additional capabilities and resources that do not exist today and further underlined the importance of good constitutional readiness, that is, that the Swedish constitution contains the provisions necessary for the total defence to be able to solve its tasks and for the Swedish society to function in legal forms even during crisis and in war. A single proposal is therefore needed in terms of the direction of total defence, and the structure of civil defence needs to be taken into account even more clearly, not least with regard to the need for constitutional regulation and funding. Madam President, I would like The reintroduction of the military service for public defence and civil society, the overall defence planning of all the authorities concerned and the major financial contributions are central elements in the reconstruction of the total defence. Based on a military alliance-free position, we are building a security network around Sweden. The bilateral relations we have deepened, particularly with Finland, and the transatlantic link are steps in the right direction. Within the framework of the partnership with NATO, where Sweden has been active since 1994, freedom of alliance can continue. The fact that we are working together to deepen our cooperation may prove crucial in the event of a crisis. Madam President, I would like In June 1994 — a warm and sunny day in a summer that would be the best in a very long time — a young young man, tangy and small saloon drunk, stood on the town hall staircase in Landskrona and sang with his classmates about the bright future that was ours. The future lay before us, with all its possibilities – exciting, challenging, welcoming. The image of the people's sea on Rådhustorget, as well as the joy and the spirit of the future, I have carried with me all my life. It has become a strong driving force in my political work as well. It is about doing something and daring to look forward to the future even if tomorrow is different from today. Security about tomorrow creates confidence in the future and ambition. When we debate today in the Swedish Parliament the allocation of funds for the defence – how we can make effective use of our resources and create operational capabilities, as it says – it is not a question of bombs and grenades in the first place, but of our way of life. It is a question of defending what is ours, that is, the Swedish welfare model, and creating security for the future, as well as safeguarding democracy and the rule of law. It's about thinking what you want, saying what you want, loving who you want. Best Members of the Swedish Parliament! Let us therefore remember Herman Sätherberg's text: No storms yet in our minds dwell hope is our friend and we its promises faith With this in mind, Madam President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 3 to paragraph 4 Inspection of the total defence.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-760	Madam President, I would like Hope is our friend – yes, I have also graduated, but you can't just live on hope, Niklas Karlsson. You also have to do something to make things happen. I share the view that we have great values to secure. Therefore, I wonder why almost nothing has happened with regard to the civilian part of the defence and why the settlement you have made does not include any means to ensure at least some of the seventy concrete proposals that the Defence Committee presented in 2017. It's going very slowly, is my feeling. We are now beginning to sense that we are getting a cybercenter that can work against cyber attacks, and that's good. But the reality is that it is MSB, Must, Säpo and the Swedish Armed Forces who, on their own initiative and within their own framework, have planned and started that work. Only then did the government manage to decide to say that Sweden should have this. That's not good enough. My question is: Can we imagine a slightly higher pace from the government in the work ahead?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-764	Madam President, I would like The simple answer to that question is, of course, yes. It is important to keep pace as fast as possible. At the same time, running in the wrong direction hardly helps to keep a high tempo. There has been an agreement on military defence, but we in the committee have pointed out that this is not enough for the civilian parts. If we are to succeed in living up to the idea of total defence, there must also be changes in civil defence. Then, of course, what we are living with today is wrongs from before, and in it the Right Alliance bears a large part of the responsibility. When we come in this autumn and decide on the directional bill for the future total defense, I believe that large parts of the civil defence will be included. It is about the fact that the investigations that are now being set up will have to land, and it is of course about increasing the resources for the civilian parts of the total defence. At the same time, one must be aware that the civilian parts and civil defence are not an organisation of their own, as when we talk about military defence. This means that we must create a completely different mindset, an entirely different attitude and a completely different culture from what can easily be implemented when it comes to the Swedish Armed Forces. That is why I think we have a long journey ahead of us. It is about public defence and the will of the people, and it is about clearly pointing out what we want. But again: The simple answer – the short answer – to the question of whether it is possible to keep pace is, of course, that we should keep pace as fast as we can. Before we do that, however, we must have taken the direction of travel, because we cannot compensate for the wrong direction with a high tempo.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-768	Madam President, I would like It is good that there are ambitions for a higher tempo, but given the low level we find ourselves at purely factually, it is very difficult to run wrong. When we look at the Defence Committee's proposal on military defence, we see that it is very much about rather elementary things – it is transport, it is diesel, it is the ability to cook and it is equipment. It's a little better clothes for women working in defense. So it's very basic. You can't get so wrong there, because you're at such a low level, so it's probably all right. With regard to civil society, however, it is a concern that municipalities and regions are now starting to pull away themselves, out of impatience. They took the signals in 2015 seriously and have started work in some places. So there is a great risk that they have run longer and that we will end up in the back water at national level. That's not good either. I'm asking for a higher tempo. Don't be afraid to make decisions!
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-770	Madam President, I would like It is possible to say that it is difficult to run the wrong way. There are a lot of low hanging fruits to pick, and of course we will. I'm the first one to acknowledge that we are. Beatrice Ask also knows that what we are writing in the text of the report, in which we call on the government to take greater account of the civil aspects of defence also in terms of funding, was produced on the initiative of the Social Democrats in committee. We are in complete agreement in these parts, and if we are to make the concept of total defence work, the civilian elements must also work. They are crucial to the success of the military elements. We agreed in the Defense Committee. There is a good basis to work on from. I also look forward to the new role played by Beatrice Ask as County Governor, for the County Administrative Boards will play an important role in this work. Although these are new roles, I therefore look forward to new meetings and joint efforts to really implement the concept of total defence.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-773	Madam President, I would like I hope that the voice will hold – of course you will catch a big cold this time of year! Not for the spirit of time, but to facilitate what sometimes comes to mind on Thursdays here in Parliament with a cow's mouth, I only call for reservation 5. A small reflection is that there is reason to rejoice today. When we've stood here before in the years, I've had quite a reason to accuse the rest of you of not having invested in the defense, for destroying it all and so on. It is time we put that discussion behind us now. The main reason for this is, as we see it, that the parties are now investing heavily in the Swedish Armed Forces. The defence committee is proof of this, and we are very pleased about that. We see some reflections in the newspapers, where one writes, among other things, that one does not see that we are making any investments because we have not put more money in the budget. But the Swedish Democrats have another way of managing budgets. Before Christmas, Madam President, we added 18 million more for 2019, 2020 and 2021, which the Swedish Armed Forces wanted. We agreed on that budget. And, of course, we are now in favour of the budget which amounts to just under 90 billion in 2025. We are counting on the civilian part, which is 4.2 billion according to Resistance, which deals with it. They've got about 400 million. This money is due in 2025, and it is just under 90 billion. Price increases should also be made, and we will see how much it will be. It is quite clear that we intend to do this. Now we are in a position to say that the Moderates are spending more money, Madam President. That's over 500 million. But then you will remove them, because in the committee motion that you have it says that you will up to 84 billion in 2025. Then it will not be 84 billion plus the 550 you will deposit next year, but then you will remove them. Otherwise, you will pass 84 billion. This was just a little reflection. We will come back to you after the preparatory work has been carried out. What is the Armed Forces need? How did they count? What are the holes in the budget, Madam President? If we then come to the conclusion that we want a further number of billions, we on our part are prepared to add this money. But the defense committee ends in 2025; that's what was the mission. In our focus, if we had continued, we are up to 2% by 2030. We even want to lay down legislation on this so that in future it will never be less than 2% on average in a five-year period. We also want to be able to continue up after 2030, and we can even see 21⁄2% of GDP and then go back to 2%. Regardless of what is now being achieved in the further work, we Swedish democrats believe that we have these funds. We have set aside these funds, and we will set them aside after 2025. The work of the defence committee and the placement of units in Central Sweden will be carried out. It is the politicians and no one else who decides where the unit establishment should take place, of course after consultation with the Swedish Armed Forces. But if we point out that there should be a dressing in Central Sweden, so should it. There should be no doubt about this. We will continue next year, as I said, with the preparation. I look forward to this. Some of the things that I find particularly pleasing in the Defense Committee are that we should get an anti-aircraft system on the corvettes. I hope it will be an anti-aircraft system that we can stand together on. It is a very good system, and there are good opportunities to equip the corvettes in connection with the mid-term modification with Swedish radar. It is an excellent robot system, as you know. This applies, for example, to the CAMM robot system. It can even become an export product, for this is one of the world's best systems for dealing with cruise missiles. In addition to this, major investments are made on the base plate, vehicles for the Home Guard, dark guidelines and all that you can read about yourself. It is gratifying, and it is important that we agree to continue the work. We should not have to find out that there is no money – if it is, but the Swedish Armed Forces say that – and that this means that we are cutting back again. We're going to raise the funds so that the defense committee's report can be secured. This also applies to the resistance, civil and defence force, which is about the military component. I would like to conclude by saying a little bit briefly that I miss Mr Hans Wallmark in this House. We always end up in a discussion about NATO, and it did not exist today. It doesn't matter to me, in itself. He usually talks about all 28 NATO countries. Sometimes I wonder which country he leaves out, because NATO has 29 Member States. Is it France, which believes that NATO is brain dead, or is it some other country? But there are 29 countries that are involved. Although you would like me to continue with this speech, I would like to finally say something about Beatrice Ask, if allowed. It will, of course, be a positive thing. She's going to be governor. I am, as you know, a minister of agriculture and I would like to congratulate him on his appointment. It's well-deserved. You're a good politician, and I'm sure you'll be a good governor, too. I look forward to the invitation to dinners and some parties downstairs at the residence. Maybe I can even come back and serve a glass or two of wine. The two of us know what I mean, so it belongs somewhere else. Thank you for that, and I congratulate you!
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-788	Madam President, I would like Given how cold Roger Richtoff is, perhaps I should be kind enough not to ask for a line. But thank you for your kind words! I do not know what we have on wine that we have not told the others, but all Members are welcome to Sörmland. We have a lot to discuss and a lot to show for the future. I asked for a reply on the issue of resources and budget. Roger Richtoff claimed that the addition we are making for next year is something that we are removing since. No, we don't. One should know that the 84 billion may need to be listed; it is not possible to be completely accurate in the five-year period when you list it all. We are serious about the initiative that we are starting already this year with a strengthening of the defence against cyber attacks and cybersecurity and what lies in MSB's area of activity. I believe that emergency preparedness needs to be increased. We saw in the result of the budget we received for this year that the money could be used very well. It was possible to increase regional fire-fighting resources and much more, so there were a lot of things that were very good and that could be realised thanks to resources. It will not be removed; it is as simple as that. When it comes to the work of the Defence Committee, we have been in agreement in the preparation in many parts. However, it was a little strange that the Swedish Democrats chose to remain when the Social Democrats did not want to stand up for the economic assessments we had made. I can say as a passus that Hans Wallmark, of course, would have been happy to be here and take part in the debate, but he is with the parliamentary NATO delegation in an important meeting and is therefore not here today. I can assure Roger Richtoff that the Moderates agree on the NATO issue.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-793	Madam President, I would like I did the reflection on the money because you write that you will contribute approximately 550 million for next year and that, at the same time, your committee motion states that the Parliament will agree that the appropriations for military defence will amount to a total of 84 billion in 2025. So that's exactly when the Defense Committee is ready. Then the disc should be put on for the civilian. If this is submitted at the same time as adding 550 million next year and then 2025 is to land at 84 billion, we must reduce somewhere. Otherwise it will be more than 84 billion. That was the reflection I made, but now I have at least received an answer to it. The second concerns our signature of the excellent Defence Committee's report. We wanted to confirm with it that we are behind the report. We believe that this is very characteristic of the policy we have been pursuing and fighting for ourselves for so many years. We simply wish to confirm with the signature that we support the work on the report. That's how it should be seen. Then we have said that we intend to pursue it in terms of the budget, as we do. But, again, the defense committee's report extends to 2025. I know that you have a focus on this, and I have also read about what the Liberals are doing, but the report of the preparation has a stop in 2025. At the beginning of next year, we will see how much money the Swedish Armed Forces consider themselves lacking. Then we will have to decide whether our focus will apply after 2025.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-797	Madam President, I would like It is not entirely correct that the Defence Committee's proposal is only about the coming period. After all, there is also a discussion about the next period, which is based on the fact that we want to see a long-term strengthening of the Swedish defence. Both in the different proposals of the Swedish Defence Committee and in the Swedish Armed Forces' comments, we discuss what we want to see achieved in the coming period, when we will discuss the orientation proposal. Above all, the Swedish Armed Forces' proposal has moved almost all the essentials to period two, for they have power as well as not with it during the first period. It is important that the public, possibly following this discussion, is aware that this is, of course, a proposal for a direction for the coming years. But the Defence Committee, the Swedish Armed Forces and others have a much longer perspective than that, and that must actually be the case.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-799	Madam President, I would like I have no objection to that. When it comes to perspective planning and the like, you see it in a longer perspective. But I'm sure we'll agree that the Defense Committee's proposal will be valid until 2025. Now it starts a new preparation for the next period. What I find interesting to see is how the Swedish Armed Forces have spent their money now. After all, the 18 billion in the last defence decision was there to complete the decision. Now we have a new proposal that we have drawn up here. How do you put these together? I am interested in seeing which equipment orders are made and whether they are consistent with the focus of the Defence Committee. That's where you still owe the answer. Is this really being jacked up? It will be very interesting to see.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-802	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank At a time when antagonistic forces are trying to undermine and create divisions and the security situation in our surrounding world is deteriorating, Sweden's security is benefiting from long-term stability and constructive responsibility. If we do not know whether the planning conditions are sufficient, if agreements reached in different policy areas are holding up as they were supposed to, and if fundamental confidence is affected, then the opportunities for other forces to exploit our weakness and further undermine our society and its institutions are opened up. How we act in the parliamentary work, that together we are able to make decisions that extend over long periods of time, gives a signal of stability to our world around us. We need to think longer than tomorrow. We need to prepare, plan and dimension. It takes time to build defense capabilities. The commitment to defence capabilities needs to permeate all the different activities and policies of our society. Together we can reach much further and get a real increase in ability on all levels. There are risks. Some are if leadership is flawed, if it is too much ignorance or indifference to these issues. Then we will not achieve the results that we would need in the short as well as in the longer term. We now face many important decisions, considerations and priorities. We must go at least ten years in time to see what needs to be done in military and civil defence. A year ago, when we had the budget debate for 2019, there was great uncertainty about the Swedish Armed Forces' finances for both 2019 and 2020 and 2021. A few weeks before the New Year, the Swedish Armed Forces did not know what the financial conditions would be. We, too, took responsibility on that occasion and re-used at least as much for military defence as was done in the M-KD budget supported in this House. During last year's budget debate, among others, I called for a message from the Social Democrats about what the economic objective was in the current work of the Defence Committee. In that debate and during the spring's work, the answers to the questions of economic ambitions were not answered. It even went so far that the Social Democrats in the Defence Committee's report recovered from making any financial promise in connection with the transfer of Värnkraft to the government. Since the government parties at that time were not prepared to commit themselves to a political settlement on the future economic framework of the defence decision, the Center Party, the Moderates, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats chose not to sign the Defence Committee's report, although we fully supported the proposals in the report. The economic conditions, all the different proposals in the report and future defence decisions are a very important whole. The aim of the Swedish Defence Committee's work was to reach at least the Nordic average in proportion to GDP, corresponding to 1 1⁄2 per cent by 2025. We had this with us when, together with the Liberals and the government parties, we negotiated the budget for next year and the coming years. Together, we reached a deal, a very important one, in August to add EUR 5 billion to military defence for 2022 and a further EUR 5 billion per year thereafter – a total of EUR 25 billion more in the financial perspective to 2025. It is a historical increase in resources and ambition in accordance with the proposals in the Swedish Defence Committee's report. This provides much greater planning conditions for the Swedish Armed Forces' operations. The defence committee's proposal means that the defence budget will be increased. The Center Party wants the level by 2030 to be 2 percent of bnp. There are many reasons for that. The deteriorating world situation, not least in our part of the world, requires increased defence capacity. In our neighbourhood, the security situation has deteriorated, partly due to Russia's political development. Hybrid warfare, grey zone problems, military development and increased conflicts in our surrounding world place completely new demands on the Swedish defence's endurance, preparedness and war ability. That the Defence Committee so clearly states that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out calls for action and common strategies. Our ability to face an armed attack must be strengthened, and it is necessary in the near future. The Center Party also believes that we should become members of NATO, the sooner the better, because NATO is extremely important for full security in this area. Madam President, I would like The Center Party has made a strong contribution to the reinforcement of resources in the defence sector over the past few years. It is now important for us to contribute to constructiveness and breadth in future agreements but also to resource efficiency, so that we can get as much defence capabilities as possible for the grants that will be granted by the Swedish Parliament. There are many important jobs going on. Evidence from the Swedish Armed Forces has been received to be analysed and compared with the Swedish Defence Committee's report. Next year will be extremely important in order to land the next defence-oriented decision. Clarity, predictability and sustainability of decisions are desirable. When, in the next budget debate in one year's time, we sum up the situation, I hope that we can see just broad agreements on the next defence-oriented decision in this House. Finally, I would like to express my warm thanks to our President, Beatrice Ask, for his excellent cooperation.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-819	Madam President, I would like First, I want to say hello to all of you who listen and watch. We are therefore debating the area of expenditure in the state budget, which is about defence and security policy. In the past, the Left Party presented its own budget motion to show its economic efforts and policies. The most important guiding words of the Left Party in politics overall are to build equality. The work on equality is also visible in defence and security policy. We know that equal societies are strong societies. When we stick together, smooth economic gaps, help each other and take care of each other, society becomes more resilient to crises and attacks. When we trust and get to know each other, we can also see and expose propaganda and errors. We can more easily cope with crises and disasters in everyday life, such as blackouts, floods and fires. Our strength lies in our relationship and fellowship. The Left Party is also a feminist party, and the struggle for equality is a natural part of our work. This is also evident in defence and security policy. Yesterday, the Parliament held a hearing on UN Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. Experts in this area clearly show that gender equality and women's rights are crucial for building sustainable and long-term peace. At the moment, SVT's and Swedish Radio's week-long investment in Musichjälpen is under way. This year, the theme of Sex is not a weapon, and it leads to last year's Nobel Laureates in peace, Denis Mukwege and Nadia Murad, and the important work they do for women's rights in the midst of some of the world's worst conflicts. At the same time, the work for gender equality here at home is important. The number of women in the Armed Forces is still far from a minimum definition of gender equality. This must of course change, and it is incredibly important that strategic work is ongoing and continues in order to get more women to want to do military service, to go to the Armed Forces and to want to stay. The work for equality and gender equality is linked together in the Left Party's strong support for universal and gender-neutral military service. The reintroduction of military service was good both for a strong defence force and for better recruitment and for a population with greater knowledge and experience of the total defence. This also has a good side effect because we can build a more equal society through conscription. It is in conscription that young people of different backgrounds meet, live, learn and work together in a fairly natural way, which the Left Party considers very valuable. For the Left Party it is important that Sweden's defence has a strong popular base and that those who participate in the defence work represent the entire population and have different backgrounds, knowledge and experience. In this context, voluntary defence organisations also have an important role to play in capturing engagement and in supporting and strengthening society. We all have a common responsibility to face all kinds of threats, if they are climate-related, from misinformation or from racism or extremism. We are also looking forward to having military service with civilian parts in the future to strengthen society's overall preparedness. Madam President, I would like Climate change and natural disasters are a serious threat to the security of the country and its inhabitants. We see around the world that natural disasters are a root cause of war and conflict. Tackling climate change is therefore working towards a more peaceful and safer world. This must therefore be a top priority in society. We need to have a security policy and emergency preparedness focused on the fact that we will have to deal with natural disasters in the future. We must have the courage to take decisions to counter this type of crisis. Neutrality and freedom of alliance are the main elements of the Left Party's defence and security policy. We say a clear no to Swedish membership of NATO, and we believe that the host country agreement must be demolished. Today's Social Democratic and Environmental Party government seems to want to take every new step towards NATO. We shall have good cooperation with all the countries around us, but we shall not strive to sit at just all the meeting tables and go to exactly all the meetings we are invited to by NATO. Instead of approaching the nuclear alliance that NATO is, we should mark the importance of peace and take the final steps to really sign the UN Convention against Nuclear Weapons. In order for Sweden to be a safe country and a strong society to live in where activities such as care for the elderly, preschool, healthcare and garbage management work, financial resources are needed for all parts of society. The Left Party is very concerned about cuts in the local and regional sector. Already today, staff are on their knees, without major external crises in society. If operations are to function even in the event of a crisis, it is necessary that the personnel are not initially understaffed or understaffed. Sweden therefore needs a budget and a policy that provides greater resources for welfare, more security for the population and more equality in our country. Madam President, I would like Let me also take the opportunity to thank our committee chairman Beatrice Ask for inclusive leadership and a pleasant year in committee, although we do not always feel the same.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-835	Madam President, I would like I have two questions. First of all, why do Hanna Gunnarsson and the Left Party not want to support the opening of a recruitment office in Norrland, for example in Luleå? We're both in favour of a military search for 8,000 men. Secondly, what is the view of the Left Party on the rapprochement with Finland? In the long term, we want to join forces with Finland and beyond peace-time conditions, as the Minister of Defence said at some point. How does the Left Party view it?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-837	Madam President, I would like I thank Roger Richthoff for the questions. We would like to see another recruitment office, and it is appropriate for it to be in northern Sweden. If it is to be in Umeå, Luleå or any other city, the authorities can decide for themselves. We politicians should not decide at that level of detail. But if Sweden is to have more conscripts, as the Left Party thinks, and then be able to expand with civil service, there is definitely a need for more recruitment opportunities. Our cooperation with Finland is good. But for the Left Party it is important that Sweden is militaryly non-aligned. I do not want to enter into an alliance with Finland in the field of defence, but it is good that we cooperate closely. We must work closely with all the countries around us, on their own terms. We Swedish politicians make decisions about our politics and development, just as the Finnish politicians do in their country. But good cooperation with Finland is important.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-840	Madam President, I would like As for the first part, to let the authorities decide, the head of F 21 has requested that we open an office there. This was the most important thing for him, to enable increased recruitment. So it is the head of authority up there who has said this. My question is still: why does the Left Party not support such a proposal, which we have tabled among others? I believe that more have made proposals. As far as the freedom of alliance is concerned, it is clear, and I have no comments to make on this.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-843	Madam President, I would like When a proposal comes from the Recruiting Authority, or the National Defence Authority as it should be called, we will of course all look at it. What city it will end up in will be judged by people who have much better opportunities than I to judge it. I fully agree with the head of F 21. I understand that they want an office up in northern Sweden. I think that would be great. But I await the proposal from the relevant authorities, and we will have to take a position on it when it comes here.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-845	Madam President, I would like This afternoon we are debating something as important as Sweden's defence and society's emergency preparedness. As many people have said, we are in an increasingly tough position in terms of security policy, and I would like to start by reminding you of this situation. Russia's activity in the neighbourhood as well as elsewhere has not halted after the illegal annexation of Crimea in 2015, but there is a war in Eastern Ukraine. Although it is low-intensity, on average ten people a month die there. Last year, Russia completed a bridge between Crimea and Krasnodar, which is regarded by Ukraine and several other countries as illegal and as part of the ongoing hybrid war in the grey area. We also see that Russia has carried out large-scale nuclear exercises with the participation of aircraft, ships, submarines and land-based systems this year. We also see examples of activities in our own neighbourhood. During the autumn, Russia conducted an extensive marine exercise off the Norwegian coast with some forty participating marine units. The Norwegian Commander-in-Chief believes that it was the largest Russian exercise in 40 years in the area in question. The aim is likely to have been to de-regulate the area and prevent US military activities in the event of a conflict. Over the Baltic Sea, Russia has carried out aircraft with strategic aircraft of type TU 160, which are not normally based in our vicinity. Finally, the Baltic Marine Air Regiment has been added to new aircraft of type SU 30. A number of older fighter aircraft have also been redistributed to the Baltic Sea Marine. I am just saying this to highlight what the Committee on Defence has stated, namely that we have a tougher security policy situation and that this is something that is going on all the time. What we said in the Defense Committee was that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. If that is the case, we must change this. We must ensure that we can defend ourselves against an armed attack. The proposal that we put forward and started in January 2017 was first a report on what needs to be done in civil defence, but this spring the military came. It is now important that this is implemented. It's well balanced. It is important not to pick out parts but to carry out the whole. It is also important that we reach the 84 billion in 2025 and that it is calculated on the basis of the cost situation in 2019. It must be allowed to be a half-fat, i.e. 11⁄2% of bnp 2025. Then it must continue up to 2% in order for us to implement the necessary rehabilitation. We have major challenges within the different defence laws. It takes a lot of effort on the Navy, on the Army and on the Air Force. In particular, logistics and management are important. This is emphasised in the Defence Committee. We use a lot of the equipment, but by investing in it we make our defence force warworthy. That is what is so important now: that our armed forces work, in the event of the worst of things. Civil defence and strengthening food security and energy are also important. We see that Ukraine, for example, has been exposed on several occasions to cyber attacks that have caused them to lose their power supply. This can also affect Sweden, which is why it is important now that we strengthen the defence. This applies not least to cyber defence, where today it is far too easy to get Sweden on its knees. We have seen cyber-attacks against Sweden and other countries, and now we have to make sure that we strengthen up here. We Christian Democrats have added money to our draft budget in order to strengthen civil defence. Next year there will be 300 million, and then there will be 600 million. What is important is that it is practiced, and here we can learn a lot from Finland. They themselves say that they learned from Sweden to build civil defence, but they never shut it down. They have a good way of using private companies and businesses and finding compensations that allow them to have, for example, fuel stocks. They can also practice so that it works if the worst happens. It is gratifying that we have a committee announcement regarding inspections for Total Defence. It's a motion by Allan Widman that we've got a majority for. Now it is important that we follow up and see how it goes and that we can show the Swedish people the progress that is being made. I think Germany is a pioneer country here. For several years, they have had a White Paper in which they report to the German Parliament every year on the progress of each law of arms in the armed forces, such as the submarines – how many have been on duty, how many are in the dock, what it has cost and so on. There is openness. I think that will be necessary. Now that we are going to invest more and more in making the necessary efforts on the Swedish Armed Forces, it is important that we show how things are going and what progress is being made so that we can justify why we need to invest even more money in the future to make the Swedish Armed Forces work and be able to provide security for the Swedish people and also help in our neighbourhood. Madam President, I would like With these words, I am in favour of reservation 7. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President-in-Office for her excellent cooperation and to wish her good luck in Sörmland.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-859	Madam President, I would like Manifested by our representative democracy, I can say that the Swedish people's willingness to defend themselves is perhaps higher now than ever before. Seven of the eight political parties in this House are now behind an increase in the annual defence budget over the next six years, with, hear and astound, SEK 33 billion. These resources create great opportunities, but I would like to emphasise that they are also linked to a great deal of responsibility. Now that the Liberals are thinking about the defence policy of the 2020s, there are two key words that are more evident than anything else. One is cost-effectiveness, and the other is visibility. In a short period of time, large amounts of funding for state monopoly activities are associated with risks. That is why, as Mikael Oscarsson pointed out, a total defence inspection is required where experts can continuously monitor and revise total defence operations in our country. I do not think that this inspection will be enough, Madam President. I also believe that we in this House must start to think seriously about control stations during the period of the orientation decision. The second keyword is visible results. If the defence committee is finally heard, it is a matter of setting up five new organisational units. It is K 4 in Arvidsjaur, AMF 4 in Gothenburg, F 16 in Uppsala and also two infantry regiments. This is visible. The Swedish people will be aware of this, as will the fact that we are now doubling the withdrawal for military basic education to 8 000 conscripts in 2024 or 2025. Madam President, I would like If we fail to achieve cost-effectiveness, if we do not land in visible results this time, then my assessment is that the journey towards 2% after 2025 will be interrupted. Strategically, Sweden is not a peninsula but an island. When we imagine an opponent, we see him coming either on the sea surface or in the air above. It is when the opponent is there that he is gripped for us and vulnerable. This situation has led us to traditionally invest in remote combat forces, what we sometimes call a shell defence. Madam President, I would like Both the Air Force and the Navy will also dominate in the 20th century when it comes to our defence economy. But Sweden also needs a defence in depth. Almost a year ago, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist spoke in Sälen. He then stated that the next defense decision should be an army defense decision. I totally agree with him. Sweden cannot continue to be a country that has twice as many fighter aircraft as we have field haubits. There is nothing an opponent would rather avoid than go into the ground and get stuck there. If he is forced to do so, it is associated with completely different costs and completely different risks to this opponent. Madam President, I would like It is high time to rebuild the Swedish ground forces. I would ask you to accept Amendment No 8.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-868	Madam President, I would like The defence policy orientation proposal now in force for 2016 – 2020 includes proposals for targets for civil and military defence and proposals for targeting military units in the Armed Forces Organisation. The report Resistance – The focus of the total defence and the design of the civil defence in 2021 – 2025 and the report Värnkraft – The focus of the security policy and the design of the military defence in 2021 – 2025 together with the Swedish Armed Forces' own base on the table. Within the framework of the work of the Defence Committee in the report Resistance, proposals were made for a goal for the total defence which the Defence Committee believes should replace today's goals for the military defence and civil defence: Total Defence should individually and together with others, within and outside the country, defend Sweden against armed attack and safeguard our security, freedom, independence and freedom of action. Madam President, I would like Maybe we shouldn't get ahead of ourselves. But if the sky does not fall down quite yet, it seems that the Swedish total defense is now heading into a strong phase of construction and that it is time to change the thinking. We are still in the last defence-oriented period for another year. However, it is a major shift in defence policy that we are experiencing now entering the next period of defence orientation. There are very large sums of money that will be allocated to military defence this year. As Allan Widman also put it, it is not entirely unproblematic for a business to have worked for years to tighten thumb screws, phase out different directions and reduce staff, redirect, shift and shut down, to quickly and effectively rebuild, as politics now wishes, a well-functioning total defence. The next year will be a kick-off year, when funds requested by the defence to avoid having to cut even more in the coming year have in principle been allocated in this budget. It is now, in the coming year, that the defense will work to steer, especially in thought, I think, and start building for the future. Madam President, I would like As I said, we should not anticipate the forthcoming preparation of a defence policy proposal. But we know in general what the means are for strengthening military defence. The proposal will be prepared in 2020 to apply until 2025. The broader the agreement on the coming year of total defence, the better for Sweden. That is my absolute conviction. We parties differ a lot in the direction and content, sometimes a lot, sometimes less. That, of course, is what makes it necessary for several parties. We in our party, for example, would rather have seen a much faster and wider civil defence structure and more work to combat cyber threats and threats to democracy. It is about more focus to prevent the effects that come from the increasingly accelerating climate change. It is about more work and the means to reduce emissions, because it is the emissions that drive climate change. We believe that those threats will be on us faster. These are forest fires, prolonged droughts and floods. They're here, in fact, now. Here and now democracy is under threat on a daily basis. Attempts to disrupt and destroy structures in society with the internet as weapons are also ongoing here and now. Yes, the government is based on these areas. We have begun the work of forming a national cybersecurity centre. We have built up some important collaborations on these issues and have absolutely some functions in place. But we are still one step behind and we still have a lot to do. Many municipalities and regions have it tough, Food safety and pharmaceutical safety are areas where we still have a lot to work with, but military defence goes first, as I said. It is not because it is our greatest wish in our party but because we see that a broad agreement between as many parties as possible is an extremely important factor for Sweden, for trust in Sweden and for the protection of Sweden. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity, like the committee, to stress the importance of a comprehensive total defence decision in 2020. The defense committee has submitted two reports. There is every reason to draw our attention to the importance of taking civil defence more clearly into account in further work. In the report on Resistance, the Defence Committee stressed that total defence must be based on credible military and civilian capabilities. The report states that the military and civilian activities of the total defence must be able to deal with the range of funds that an attacker can use to try to achieve his goals. Madam President, I would like Strong civil defence will require abilities and resources that do not exist today. It is of great importance that the Swedish Constitution contains the provisions necessary for the total defence to be able to solve its tasks and for Swedish society to function in legal forms even during crises and in war. There will be various investigations to make it possible to move in the right direction on these issues in the coming years. I look forward to seeing them and look forward to a comprehensive proposal on the direction of the total defence and to the further consideration of the structure of civil defence. I support most of the committee's proposal, but I would like to ask for reservation 3 in paragraph 4.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-882	Madam President, I would like We all agree that defence capacity needs to be increased. It is clear that what has happened in the world around us – that for the first time since the end of the Cold War with arms power has moved borders in Europe – raises questions. When countries seeking cooperation, freedom and peace are threatened by other countries and when countries that want to shape their foreign policy independently are intimidated and frightened because they have a different political view, it is clear that we have a new political landscape that requires a different defence and security policy discussion. We can see that political influence has affected elections in Europe. We can also see that what has been the purpose of part of Russia's policy – to divide the EU, to divide NATO and to break up countries – has changed to some extent. In such a situation, it was assumed that the government had taken all the opportunities it had to increase the Swedish defence capability, but unfortunately the picture is different. Both military and civil defence need to be equipped in a way that this defence budget actually does not provide. If you recapitulate a bit of history, it must be noted that the Moderates in two defence arrangements together with the alliance parties have pushed the government ahead of them in order to strengthen the budget in such a way that the defence can increase its capabilities. However, I can see that, despite the great efforts made, more efforts may be needed. We must also see that the KD-M budget adopted last year significantly strengthened defence, but still resources are not enough. That is why we moderates in this budget are making an effort that has no equivalent of 4.2 billion over three years. This amount may not be enough either, but at least it provides a platform for defence to continue to develop its activities and to build new units instead of saving. In a situation where the Defence Committee has been working for two and a half years and has essentially agreed on the policy that you want to pursue and on the support activities you want, it is unfortunate that when the investigation is to be signed, the government acts in such a way that several parties drop out of the preparation and do not sign it. What is unique is that the reason why these parties do not sign is that they do not support the report of the Defence Committee, but on the contrary that they support it. It's a strange situation– you have a government that you can't trust on these issues. Or as the Minister of Finance summed it up in connection with the discussion: There are other social needs. But it doesn't stop there. In the government's defence committee, which had high objectives when it came to not under-financing, the under-funding was, when everything was over, calculated according to the Swedish Armed Forces, 55 billion over ten years. In a situation where the Armed Forces should step up their pace and build new units, the Defence Command is instead involved in picking parts out of the joint defence preparation that had virtually all parties behind them. It's unfortunate. We need reinforcements here and now, but instead we have to wait for the efforts that the defence needs. The government has a lot to sort out, I think. There are many out there, both in the Armed Forces and in this House, who wonder how the government will resolve these issues. I also note that the responsible minister is involved in debates in almost every budget debate. However, this does not apply to the Committee on Defence, where there may be more questions than in any other committee. The Secretary of Defense's priority is to be in another place, and I'm sorry about that. It may also show how the priorities take place. If the government had been serious about putting the defence first, it had already started years ago with some quick and relatively cheap measures. Madam President, I would like Let me, for example, address this with psychological defence. That is a question that we raised five years ago when I was new to this committee. It is an important issue in order to create a breadth and an understanding of the threats and challenges facing defence and society. The question is initiated, but very little happens. Another issue raised this week is the issue of cooperation between industry and defence. It was an investigation that many had waited a long time for, but when it arrived it was actually met with more questions than it answered. We have waited a long time, and we will have to keep waiting to get the answers we need in order to build a total defence with industry included. Why did this happen? Because the government had given instructions in the directive to the investigation that it could not have put forward the proposals that it might have wanted to put forward. A third example of the government's lack of ability to take the measures that can be taken concerns the issue of cyber defence. A national cyber centre is an important part of finding threats and covering security deficiencies. We also know that, in many sentences, the war of the future will take place online and that it will take place digitally. The Global Cybersecurity Index for 2019 ranked Sweden as the world's fifth most digitised country. But when it comes to how we manage digital security – our cybersecurity – we ended up in place 32. This shows in some sense that we are a very digitised country but that we have not been involved in the development of security, which results in us being incredibly exposed. We're very digitized, but badly insured against trespassing. This, too, is an issue that the government could have addressed early and could have taken greater action. But as the Minister of Finance stated: There are other social needs. Madam President, I would like Let me say something briefly about JAS. The government has, in budget after budget, come to the Defence Committee and wanted an authorisation to sell JAS. The Committee on Defence has said year after year that the government is not allowed to do so, as the Committee on Defence wants the opportunity to assess the overall defence situation. Nevertheless, it is we in the committee who are ultimately responsible, and then we should have both information about and advice about the materials that we are supposed to manage. Maybe what's happened is a little strange. The majority that has been present in the Committee on Defence has now fallen, which actually makes it more difficult for us in the Committee on Defence to have advice on our materials and to have the opportunity to have insight into our role as a reviewer of the government. That is regrettable. I will finally say something about staffing, because I think this is one of the most important issues we have in order to build a defence that is strong and competent. The budget touches on this issue very quickly. When you ask a social democrat or any other government representative, the answer is always military duty. But we're not building a strong officer's corps just through military service, but we need other parts as well. It is clear that there is no news in the proposals put forward in the budget. In the light of the fact that there are more officers who stop than are employed in the defence, it should be noted that the measures to increase the number of officers who have not yet worked should not work in the future either. I think it is in some sense a summary that the government does not have the measures, the power or the will to build the defence strong. That is why I am in favour of reservation 4.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-907	Madam President, I would like It is true that the Center Party and the Liberals have a budget cooperation on defence and an agreement from the late summer, just as the Moderates throughout the last parliamentary term had long-term cooperation with the same government. However, it should be said that this was at significantly lower economic levels. Jan R Andersson said that the defense is underfunded with 55 billion. I would like to say that it is now to be analysed to what extent there is a real discrepancy in this scope between the Defence Committee and the Swedish Armed Forces. The only thing that has certainly changed, Madam President, is the 3.8 billion that is the difference between the price situation in 2019 and the salary and price recalculation of the defence budget, which is automatic. It is 3.8 billion to 2025, i.e. 750 million SEK a year. Someone at the Ministry of Defence recently calculated that the total defence allocation in the 2020s will amount to approximately 750 billion. In light of that, Madam President, 750 million is an extremely small sum, so small that it can hardly even be counted as miscalculation money.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-911	Madam President, I would like What I said in my speech was that the Swedish Armed Forces had indicated a discrepancy figure of 55 billion, this over a period of ten years. The problem, Madam President, is that we do not really know where the money has disappeared or where it is missing. I therefore hope that Allan Widman shares my view that it would have been tasteful if the Minister for Defence had been here today and had been able to sort out some of these issues. Does Allan Widman share that view? The second part is that, of course, when you have under-financing, you should consider what Allan Widman very well mentioned, namely that we must first sort out the finances. Throwing good money after bad doesn't solve any problems. The second question I have to ask Allan Widman is therefore: in this budget, we will only strengthen the budget for next year by half a billion. Does Allan Widman think that half a billion more for the defense will make it easier to solve the tasks facing the defence in the coming years?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-914	Madam President, I would like I think the Secretary of Defense is on a foreign journey. I think it is good that he is personally involved in the analysis of which we are all valiant, namely to sort out the economic concepts. It is true that the Moderates have just over half a billion more in Category 6 for next year than the undersigned, the Center and the Social Democrats have. But, Madam President, if I now read the Special Opinion of the Moderates correctly, this money is dedicated to civil defence and not to the Armed Forces.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-916	Madam President, I would like Then you'll have to read the budget one more time, Allan Widman. Parts go to civil defence, but there are also large parts to military defence. Nevertheless, I understood Allan Widman's line that he shares the view that it would have been nice if the Minister for Defence had been here, because we have many questions to which we may not be able to find the answers today. This is also a question on which I receive many calls from armed forces staff, and I find it difficult to answer those questions. It makes it a worry, and that's not good. The answer to my question to Allan Widman is that more resources actually make it easier for the Swedish Armed Forces to plan ahead. Now it's not that I doubt Allan Widman. We have worked together in the Committee on Defence for many years, and there he has never hesitated when it comes to adding money to the defence. Perhaps it is, Allan Widman, that we should cast our doubts on the government and not on each other.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-920	Madam President, I would like Today, the report by the Committee on Defence is under discussion. However, I wanted to highlight one thing that is not debated very often in these contexts, namely environmental work at sea. Part of the environmental work carried out at sea concerns the enforcement of the sulphur regulation. The Sulphur Regulation is a regulation which limits, inter alia, the permitted sulphur content of marine fuels. The regulation is important as emissions of these substances contribute to the acidification of our seas and to the deterioration of the environment in near-sea areas, then in the case of particulate emissions. The Sulphur Regulation was introduced in 2015 and has had a major impact on emissions since then. In the Port of Gothenburg, which is the Nordic region's largest, emissions of sulphur dioxide have decreased by over 70 per cent, and particle emissions have been halved – figures that are impressive and very positive for our marine environment and its surroundings. As I said, there are limit values for the sulphur content of the fuel used on board ships. The requirements differ according to the location of the ship in the world. As a result, ships often have different types of fuel on board, both the more expensive low sulphur oil and the cheaper high sulphur oil. To check the sulphur content of the fuel of ships in Swedish waters, fixed measuring stations and measurements are currently used in port. If a ship uses unauthorised fuel, indications are given on passage. However, the use of fixed measuring stations sometimes has its flaws. Since the stations' positions have long been known, ships are given the opportunity to change fuel before passing these measuring stations, but many ships also have a route that makes them never pass anyone. This opens up the possibility for ships to use oil with a higher sulphur content than is permitted without being detected. When ships change from one fuel to another, it takes time. Switching should take place between different tanks, and oil with the right quality should be pumped out. It may therefore be difficult to determine ex post the sulphur content of the fuel at a given time. Even in fuel bunkering, i.e. fuel taking on board, there are potential sources of error. Madam President, I would like The complexity, risk of contamination and the risk of incorrect delivery in bunkering contribute to the fact that, with the current sanctioning system, it is almost impossible to file infringements for prosecution which in turn leads to conviction. Cases submitted for prosecution are dismissed on the grounds that it is not possible to prove intent or to prove crimes, since the ships are not inspected during the voyage but in port. Not infrequently fuel changes when the ship leaves the port, and the risk that the ship will then be checked is virtually non-existent. As I said before, oil with a higher sulphur content is cheaper than that with a lower sulphur content. This means that there is a strong financial incentive for a shipping company not to comply with the sulphur regulation. Today, the Swedish Transport Agency is the supervisory authority for the sulphur regulation. In their report from 2017 on the SECA Directive, which is the Sulphur Control Area of the International Maritime Organisation, the following can be read: Measurements made by researchers at Chalmers at the entrance to the Port of Gothenburg show that eight out of ten ships comply with the new sulphur rules. This means, Madam President, that 20% does not, and that is where we urgently need to make a change. However, the Authority does not have much scope for carrying out inspections at sea. Moreover, it lacks the necessary powers once it has discovered something that seems suspicious. Compliance, controls and a lack of the possibility of imposing sanctions have been a recurring topic in this House, when until now no prosecution has led to a conviction. In an interpellation debate in 2017 on the non-compliance with the sulphur regulation – the interpellation was made by Moderaten Johan Hultberg – Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog said: As ships are rarely in Swedish waters for a long period of time, police and prosecutors lack a practical opportunity to investigate possible crimes. ..................................................... On that problem, Madam President, we have found a solution that should be to the taste of all parties from left to right. In order to achieve higher compliance with this Regulation, today's approach would need to be changed and improved. By carrying out inspections both at sea and at port, it would be possible to improve the possibility of taking ships that are in breach of the regulations in the act. There are many different ways to check which fuel is used at the given time. It is possible to measure the discharge from the ship at a distance of up to one kilometre with so-called sniffers mounted on other patrol ships or on aircraft, and to carry out immediate checks if suspected. These controls can, among other things, measure the temperature of burning the fuel, which is very different from one fuel type to another, take fuel samples and start questioning the crew. Taking a ship in the act is one of the most important pieces of the puzzle in order to get a conviction. As a result, it is very important to transfer supervisory responsibilities to an authority that has a more adapted organisation in terms of competences and competence and the ability to carry out the work on the ground when necessary. Here comes Kustbevakningen into the picture. The Coast Guard is currently carrying out a host of tasks in the maritime environment. They work around the clock every day of the year and work together across national borders. They also recently gained enhanced powers which are vital for taking action in the event of suspicion of a crime. The coast guard has all the skills needed to carry out more effective work for the environment in monitoring sulphur pollution. Madam President, I would like In view of this, we propose that responsibility for the supervision of the sv breeding regulation be transferred from the Swedish Transport Agency to the Coast Guard. To conclude, I would therefore like to express my support for reservation 5. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation for President Ask's perfectly accomplished work and wish her well with the challenges ahead.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-938	Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing how to use SEK 65 billion for defence and society's emergency preparedness. SEK 65 billion of taxpayers' money is very much money. In fact, if the Moderates had been left to decide, it would have been even more. The explanation for this is very simple: it is needed. In an increasingly uncertain world, our ability to cope with a crisis or, at worst, a war is crucial to our freedom and independence. Democracy, human rights, gender equality and climate responsibility are otherwise at stake. It costs money, and it costs a lot of money. It must be allowed to do so, because the alternative is worse, much worse. Madam President, I would like It is, of course, very good that there is a large majority in this House because the defence of Sweden must cost more than it is today. It is very good that the content of the Defence Committee's reports brings together a basically united parliament behind them. However, there is one small exception: how much more, at what rate is the increase to take place and, not least, how is this to be financed? For us Moderates, it is always important to have respect for taxpayers' money. Friend of order may wonder why the Moderates want to invest most of all parties in defence and society's crisis preparedness. What's the money needed for? One of the few and absolutely fundamental tasks of the state is to secure our freedom and independence. An important part of that is that we have a defence that can secure our territorial integrity and a civil society that can stand strong in crisis and at worst war. But defence and emergency preparedness are not just words on paper. The defence of Sweden and our emergency preparedness consists, at the end of the day, of people, some of whom are dressed in uniform and others in blue collars or white hospital clothes or firefighter stands. All these functions and more are what determines how well we can cope with a crisis or an armed attack on Sweden. Madam President, I would like It is for this reason that we in the Moderates believe that even next year there should be even more money for, among other things, the appropriation called Unity Activities and Preparedness. This is what we want in order to develop and ensure the warworthiness of all the armed forces that we have already decided on in the past. It's crucial to our ability to defend ourselves. It matters how many days a Home Guard soldier has served, how many sharp shootings a armored shooter has carried out, or how many damage outcomes a paramedic has trained on. Like everything else, skills and knowledge are about practice. The Moderates also believe that more money needs to be allocated as early as next year for the acquisition of equipment and for various facilities. We know that new equipment costs money. Perhaps that could mean that we can finally also ensure that all soldiers and sailors can have personal equipment that suits them, regardless of gender. That is not what my colleague, Alexandra Anstrell, sees today on a number of occasions. We also propose increased resources for research and technological development. It is necessary if we are to continue to be at the forefront in several important areas. Sensors, driverless systems and so-called smart weapons are areas where we see that technology development has pulled us away. Madam President, I would like It is not only the Swedish Armed Forces that need more money, but also other authorities that are an important part of the defence of our country. The defence radio institution is an important authority that we Moderates want to increase resources to. There is good reason for that. Good intelligence is crucial not only to detect and eliminate armed attacks but also to discover what we usually describe as grey zone conflicts. Both the opponent and the purpose of the attack may be unknown and unclear. This also applies to terrorist threats that have already been targeted and carried out in Sweden and that continue to be a danger to Sweden and all of us who live here. Madam President, I would like Another authority that works with our preparedness and protection every day of the year is the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency (MSB). Right now we are helping through MSB the earthquake victims in Albania. It is an important effort, just like all our other international efforts in Mali and Afghanistan, for example. International action is important from a purely human perspective, but also for another reason. If we help others, we are more likely to get help on the day we need it. Every day in Sweden different emergency services work on whole-time or part-time prevention of accidents, help in traffic accidents and more. Here too, the role of MSB is important. For this reason, we in the Moderates believe that MSB should receive an increase of SEK 100 million next year. We are the only party in this House to see that the needs are greater than the proposed level. Madam President, I would like What do I want to say about this? Well, it's good that we in here agree on the direction of our defence and our emergency preparedness. But it costs money. If you do not allocate resources to what you want to achieve, you will not reach it all the way. The Moderates are prepared to invest these resources, as we have shown in our proposal. We will continue to shoot other parties in front of us on these issues. First of all, we do this because it is important for Sweden and second, because it is how a responsible opposition party works.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-953	Madam President, I would like One could have expected a little more modesty from the Moderates. I cannot help but mention that you have been in charge of the destruction of both civilian and military defence. It's your legacy, don't forget it! We in the Swedish Democrats have tried to drag the Moderates behind us in order to be able to invest in the defence. Now you're saying you're the ones who spend the most on the defense. We have completely different views on how to plan defence budgets. The Swedish Democrats do this: We sit together and analyse the needs of the Swedish Armed Forces and other authorities. We're not just throwing in a hundred million. After Christmas, we will once again sit down and analyse what further reinforcements the Swedish Armed Forces need. How do you plan? What material orders have been placed now? How do you tie up the former Defense Committee with the new one? This provides a basis so that we can then go in with money and invest in the Swedish Armed Forces and the civilian part. Technology development was addressed. We are looking at a completely different direction and a completely different cooperation with the civilian component. This applies, among other things, to development, and it should be done in a completely different way. It's about long-term planning with civilians. They will have a completely new role in defence planning and technology development. The Christian Democrats, the Centre Party, the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats represent 2 percent by 2030, as has been said here. Do the Moderates share the 2 percent view?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-958	Madam President, I would like The last question, of course, was answered by the chairman of the Committee on Defence, Beatrice Ask, on a previous occasion. It is absolutely right that we aim for 2%. If Roger Richthoff thinks I'm bragging, he's gonna have to say it. I am very proud of the policy we Moderates pursue. Roger Richthoff would love to talk history. On the other hand, a Swedish democrat never wants to talk about the history of his own party, but preferably about the history of others. I have no other comments to make. As far as the financial allocation is concerned, it is surely the case that we have made our own priorities on the basis of the evidence that all parties have received or obtained in some way. I can only say that the Swedish Democrats have invested exactly the same amount as the government has done, while we Moderates have invested about 560 million more for 2020.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-962	Madam President, I would like I do not know what the honourable Member was trying to imply with the history description. I'm a little surprised. The honourable Member will be happy to clarify what he means. As I said up in the speaker's chair, I have no interest in going back and looking at the story. But, Madam President, the honourable Member puts it that the Moderates would be a leading locomotive in defence efforts. That's why I'm reacting. For next year, you are throwing in a number of hundred million without having a record from the Swedish Armed Forces and from the authorities. You do this in order to be able to say: Look what we bet! But in the second committee motion you have, you land on the same amount, 84 billion, as the others do in 2025. All in all, according to that committee motion, you are not going to be spending more money.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-965	Madam President, I would like I don't really understand Roger Richthoff's argument about the money. I don't think I'm really following that part. Then I must remind Roger Richthoff that not a single regiment or unit was closed in Sweden during the eight years when the alliance government was in place. It's important to have the right history description. So do I.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-967	Madam President, I would like I thank Jörgen Berglund for his speech. No matter how much is presented in a budget, the Moderates now want to spend a little bit. I can mention two points in the specific opinion. For unit operations and preparedness, an additional amount of 144 million is added. For the acquisition of equipment and facilities, an additional 165 million will be added next year. It would be interesting to hear it described further what effect the Moderates expect this will have for next year's activities relative to what is already going on. Over the past five years, I have worked very closely with the Moderates, side by side, in negotiations on the continued direction of the defense, both in terms of the directional decision and in the Defence Group. We have taken responsibility together to find a cross-block and clear direction and economy for the defence activities. In the conclusion of his main speech, Jörgen Berglund said that this is how a responsible opposition party acts. Is it really? Is that by adding a little more? Is it not by acting as has been done in the past: taking part in the table, taking responsibility for joint decisions and finding agreements and compromises? Isn't that how the Moderates have been perceived by us who've been at the table for the last five years? My question is therefore: Will the Moderates be a little out of the question of future directional decisions and planning? We are faced with very important decisions. This is both a security policy direction and a defence decision on the economy. How will the Moderates stand in practice?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-972	Madam President, I would like I thank Daniel Bäckström for the question. Of course, we agree on the direction of the Swedish Armed Forces and society's emergency preparedness, as I said at the outset. I think it's excellent and very good. It is the funding that we have had slightly different views on. It is no secret that the Center Party and the Liberals chose to settle financially with the government. But it would be strange if the Moderates as an opposition party could not put forward their own proposal. I think that is perfectly reasonable, and I think that is exactly what a responsible opposition party should do. That's what I meant. I can't possibly answer the question of future orientation decisions for the Swedish Armed Forces here today. But as I said, we are jointly behind the focus of the Defense Committee's reports. There is good reason to do so if possible.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-975	Madam President, I would like Based on the budgets for 2019, 2020 and 2021, we have focused on 2022 – 2025 in order to be able to dimension a focus for military defence development. I assume that the discussions that we have had there in a broad constructive spirit and that have landed in an ambition for these directions for both civil and military defence up to 2025 still apply. It is reasonable to be able to fully implement this. However, the issue remains topical. What effect will you expect from the additional appropriations you are now putting in the 2020 budget? I very much hope that we will be able to sit in constructive talks next year as well.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-976	Madam President, I would like I thank Daniel Bäckström for the supplementary question. In terms of impact, I suppose the short answer is: a better and faster effect. Otherwise, I do not know exactly what Daniel Bäckström means and what scale he would like to see the effect in. We believe that additional resources are needed as from next year. I find it very difficult to comment on the discussions that have taken place in the Defence Committee, since I have not been in the Defence Committee.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-978	Madam President, I would like Now my two colleagues, Roger Richthoff and Caroline Norden, have taken a good look at our spending efforts. I just thought I'd make some clarifications. Ever since the end of the 1990s, Sweden has been taking a spring note on stability and security in the Baltic Sea region. Long-term mismanagement of the Swedish total defence has not only resulted in a significant reduction in the capacity of the unit closures and extensive material destruction in the military defence and the dismantling of large parts of the civil defence. Worse still, this mismanagement has created major security policy imbalances in our part of Europe. With the implementation of the Swedish Defence Committee's two reports Resistance and Värnkraft, we are all now starting the important work to restore Swedish defence capabilities. Madam President, I would like It is the strong opinion of the Swedish Democrats that the direction of both reports in the preparation is good, has been taken in broad political agreement and – last but not least – will be implemented. All parties involved in the preparation are now invited to consultations to clarify the differences between the conclusions of the preparation and the defence analyses, not least in terms of economics. It's good that it's happening. Only when this is done can we proceed with the financing and implementation of the preparation reports. But it is the strong opinion of the Swedish Democrats that the conclusions of the Defence Committee are solid. The Swedish Democrats are also prepared to allocate the funds needed to implement the preparation's reports. Madam President, I would like Sweden must stop taking security policy springnotes. In the Baltic Sea region, Finland has, ever since the fall of the Soviet Union, continued to take great responsibility for common security, not least our security. Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland are all currently, in 2019, about 2% of GDP in defence efforts. Latvia and Lithuania have roughly doubled their defence efforts in the last five years, since 2014. It coincides with Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and proxy warfare in eastern Ukraine. There we must make a small historical comparison with Sweden. I'm sorry, Roger. I'm still doing what you want to avoid. It's kind of interesting. In the middle of the Cold War, Sweden's investment was about 3 per cent of GDP. When I did my military service in 1988 – 1989, they were 21⁄2 percent. As late as 1997, we invested 2% of the GDP in the Swedish Armed Forces. We often hear that we started cutting back in the early 90s. Well, we started cutting off a little bit, but in 1997 we were at 2%. Then what happened? What conclusions have been drawn from their world coverage? What happened in 2008 in Russia's aggression against Georgia? At that time we were in Sweden at 1.2 per cent of GDP in defence efforts – 1.2 per cent. In 2011, the alliance government concluded to lower it to 1.1 percent. With the illegal annexation and warfare in eastern Ukraine in 2014, it was thought that something could happen – nothing in 2014, virtually nothing in 2015 and nothing in 2016. What happened was that the Social Democratic Government, which gained continued confidence in 2018, lowered to 1 percent in 2017 and 2018. It's a number that I've compiled from Sipri, so if someone thinks it's not right, we'll be happy to look at it together. It will then be a little strange when Mr Berglund sees the Moderates as the locomotive that drives the defence efforts forward in this Assembly. After all, the moderate-led alliance government cut back after the conflict in Georgia. I would like to sit down with Jörgen Berglund after the debate and go through our respective budget movements from 2014 to today and compare our efforts on defence 2014– 2019, after Russia's aggressions in Ukraine. Then we can see where the locomotive has been. What still needs to be said is that the plan we have now is that Sweden 2025 ends up at just over 1 1⁄2 percentage point. It has to be said anyway. That's great. It's a huge step from the situation we had before. But the Swedish Democrats have far greater ambitions than that. We want to achieve 2% of GDP by 2030 through continued annual increases after 2025. I am very pleased because I hear clear messages from a clear majority in this House that they have the same ambitions. Let us therefore implement it together! I don't want any more running notes. We Swedish democrats also want to prevent irresponsible politicians from taking these spring notes in the future by using the defence as budget regulators or treating the defence as a special interest and temporarily cutting back, which means that it takes a long time and is very difficult and costly to rebuild. We therefore want, as some countries in the world around us have done, to establish this 2% law, in which we jointly decide that we should have a target value of 2% of GDP over a period of five years. Then it may vary within the period. So we get long-term funding for the defense so that you can plan your business. If necessary, we are prepared, after 2030, to go even up to 21⁄2% to temporarily strengthen the defence system so that we can quickly regain the capacity that we believe we need, and then go back to 2%. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to state that it is also the opinion of the Swedish Democrats that it is the policy, the Riksdag, that decides on the direction and scope of the Swedish Armed Forces. It is the opinion of the Swedish Democrats that it is the policy that, after consultation with the Swedish Armed Forces, decides on investments, unit formations and possible re-priorities between the Arms Act. It is the politicians' responsibility, and it is the politicians, we in here, who make decisions.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-995	Madam President, I would like To Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, who is happy to talk about history, I would like to say that I am interested in what is happening here, now and forward. That is my comment on the comment I received from Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have a very high tail in everything called defence. However, after reading through the SD budget motion, a great many questions are raised, and so I would like to ask Mr Sällström a few questions. In your budget motion, you write that your goal is to strengthen the Swedish total defense, and this requires substantial investment in both a shell defence and an invasion defence. Then comes a long list. Join now: There will be more brigades in the army, more training regiments, more ships, more naval bases, more submarines, more amphibian units in the Navy, more aircraft – both combat aircraft and heavy transport planes – more conscripts and more officers. You want new anti-aircraft systems, too. So you conclude your budget motion by throwing in that civil defence must also get a lot of effort. That might sound good. The problem is that when you read the grant to the Swedish Armed Forces and other authorities, what does it say there? Yes, it says 0 crowns extra compared to the government. 0 crowns, Madam President! When I read the Swedish Democrats' budget motion like this in Christmastimes, I will unseemly think of Santa Claus and wish lists. But as we know, there is no Santa Claus, and the wish lists are nothing more than wish lists that disappoint everyone when they do not strike. Now perhaps Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström does not agree, and so I would like to know how the Swedish Democrats have thought their extra investments will be financed without any extra money. Or is it, as I say, an ordinary wish list?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1002	Madam President, I would like As I have just explained from the speaker's seat, we are prepared to commit ourselves to up to 2% of GDP by 2030. We are also prepared, after 2030, to go up to 21⁄2% in order to implement what we want. By legislating, we are also prepared to commit ourselves to maintaining 2% in order to maintain a good defence capability in Sweden. What you, Jörgen Berglund, want to press again is your small venture next year, which has very little significance. The defence committee's report and the financial conditions for it take up to 2025, but from the speaker's chair I talked about until 2030 and after 2030. What we mean and what is in our motion are the initiatives that we will negotiate in the next defence committee. When Roger Richthoff sits down with your new defence policy spokesperson in the next preparation, these are the things he will say we want to do. We have also anchored in our party that we are behind this funding. We're ready to take these steps. Did you do it?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1006	Madam President, I would like It will be a very strange act. Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström simply says that the Swedish Democrats lay out what they want ten years before, and then they will negotiate it in the next defence budget bill. I think it is very messy, and I also think it is very messy for the voters. That is what I am trying to make clear: when you talk about things, you also have to resource them, and that is exactly what we have done. Then it is remarkable, Madam President, that over 500 million are said to be a little money. I believe that many Swedish citizens do not feel that at all, but I would say that it is very much money. Madam President, I would like Based on the answer I received from Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, I can see that this is an air castle. It is simply a wish list. You cannot promise everything to everyone. Priority must also be given, and that is exactly what we Moderates have done. We have prioritised defence, and that is why we have also provided more resources because it is necessary. I give Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström another chance: How do you get more submarines and airplanes without an extra crown?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1011	Madam President, I would like Again, what is in next year's budget is 2020. However, our budget exercise does not only cover 2020, nor does you, Jörgen Berglund. If you read our exercise very carefully you can see that this is the future perspective that we have after 2025, just like everyone else that has been established in the preparation. Jörgen Berglund does not have to worry about our funding, because what we have promised and committed ourselves to putting forward by 2030 is almost 70 billion more, according to what the defense estimates are needed from 2025 to 2030. They thought that they would stay with the same bets as until 2025. Then, moreover, we have promised that, if necessary, we are prepared to raise to 21⁄2% after 2030, in order to regain capabilities and get the defence we are prepared to finance. 600 million or 554, or whatever it was, is not a little money in many contexts. But when we have jointly decided to invest almost 90 billion in total defence by 2025, there is not much in this context.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1014	Madam President, I would like I note that the Member Sällström gives an incorrect history of what has happened in 2015, 2016 and 2017. It can stand to repeat what the current orientation decisions that were made in June in the Riksdag 2015 actually look like and what that means. It laid the foundation for a new war organization, and it meant a trend break of SEK 10.2 additional billion to the defense. Since then, in the 2017 spring amending budget, we have increased by 500 million and in August 2017 made significant reinforcements in cooperation between the Center Party, the Moderates and the government parties. Further reinforcements came in connection with last year's budget debate and decisions when the M-KD budget went through. Not least is the negotiations that were made with the January agreement when we said that this is the right level and should be completed. This is the starting point for continued work for the Defence Committee and the direction towards 2025. In addition, I note that the Defence Committee's report is interpreted as a decision and that it is in the next defence preparation work to be done for a new defence policy spokesperson. In fact, however, it is now that the sharp negotiations will begin. This spring we will sit down and negotiate, and that is when it comes to sitting at the table and making the decisions. Regardless of what is written in a party movement, it is a negotiation to be made, and the direction to be negotiated and to be agreed on is absolutely crucial for which economy is developing up to 2025.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1017	Madam President, I would like I can repeat what I have said from the speaker's seat, Daniel Bäckström. We will provide the money needed to carry out what is in the preparation. I interpret Daniel Bäckström so that the Center Party is not quite sure about this, and that is interesting and regrettable. As far as history is concerned, it's Sipri's numbers. When Russia illegally annexed Crimea in 2014 and when it started its proxy warfare in eastern Ukraine in spring 2014, Sweden's defence grant was 1.1 per cent. Already there far too low – of course. But 2017/18 the funding has fallen to 1.0 percent. Then we can surely work with hundreds, but that's how the figure has been rounded off in Sipri's description. I know that there is a defence decision to raise to 18 billion when the defence requests for 2019, 2020 and 2021. That money has been given to the defense. But it's a later history story for 2019. What has happened until 2017 and 2018, four years after Majdan, Crimea, Luhansk and Donetsk, is that they have reduced defence appropriations. It's the correct history. Even if you've made money, it's in relation to the bnp. Right? That's how we count.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1021	Madam President, I would like It is clear that there are opportunities to read through the minutes from when decisions have been taken in the Riksdag in recent years, not least in terms of reinforcements in 2017. This possibility can be used for the Christmas celebrations of Mr Sällström. When it comes to the preparation work, the Swedish Democrats signed the report without any obligation that there would be any money from the government parties. We chose not to sign because we saw that it was not sustainable to present a target picture without getting funding. On the other hand, we took responsibility in August and, together with the Liberals and the government parties, we negotiated a very important reinforcement until 2025. This is our starting point and framework for the economic development of the Swedish Armed Forces. Now it is a question of having as much effect as possible on the money. What is the Swedish Democrats' priority when it comes to how the money should be used?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1024	Madam President, I would like The last question is simple to answer. We have a preparation that has worked in broad agreement to go back to. Both I and Roger Richthoff have said from the speaker's chair that we are behind it and that it will be implemented. We have funding, and we are prepared to provide additional funds. That is our priority. We also want to continue to have broad agreements in the new Defence Committee. I am delighted to note that the overwhelming majority in this House today from the speaker's seat has indicated that it is prepared to raise 2% by 2030. There's the Center Party, which I'm glad to hear. We don't always agree on history. But if we are to look ahead, we are at least agreed on the direction of the future. We can take this on board, i.e. 2% in 2030 and a strengthened defence. We'll do that together.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1027	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. This afternoon there has been talk about the defense and how much you want to pay to get what the Defense Committee has come up with anyway. We disagree a little. What we see as the basis for the government's decision is a grant that is penned down. Then the Swedish Armed Forces have come up with a follow-up description of the blast, that is, what you get for the money that the government with January support parties wants to pay. But nowhere are clear directives on how it should work. I believe that the government does not take responsibility for its detonation. But it's not all about money. I often talk about delivery, setting goals, monitoring them, quality and follow-up. Madam President, I would like I wonder what the government intends to haggle away or whether it is intended to make things more efficient. It is the government's duty to answer us. It is also obliged to come to the fore to specify the role and responsibility of municipalities in terms of total defence. When we have not received more information on civil defence, I fear that is what may have had to be ironed on the foot. Or is this about the role of business? The investigation The role of the business community in total defence was so limited that it barely came out of any proposals at all. The municipalities and many with them would like to. Many want and can, but they need to know what is expected of them, when things should be done and what support there is. Just look at how war placement is. If a municipality plans for increased preparedness, it cannot and must not place anyone at war. But it can instead impose duties. But then the municipality doesn't know who's in the organization that's placed in war. Planning for a municipality cannot be easy. Can a person be required to serve, or is that person already engaged, entered by the Swedish Armed Forces? Planning and clarity of missions is important. Now we can read in MSB's November report a description of the need for municipalities to establish more defences. There are many assignments on the municipalities. It is therefore time for the government to provide a description of the municipalities' total responsibility in total defence and funding. I would like to take this opportunity to ask a question when governing parties are here in the Chamber. When does this description come? The clock's ticking. Madam President, I would like I'm an intern. I just want to make things work. When they don't, I'm still trying to find out where the problem is and how it can be solved. I'm talking to people in the middle of the problem. Here I can take up my example that I have debated before about clothes for women within the Swedish Armed Forces. If I have understood correctly, Madam President, this has been going on for very many years. How hard is that supposed to be? I'm thinking. As far as I know, clothes are made for women around the world all day long. It may be that there has been no interest or no leadership that wants to take responsibility for the issue – even though we have a government that calls itself feminist. Madam President, I would like You might wonder why I'm in a budget debate talking about clothes. Then I would like to take this opportunity to quote an officer who wrote to me earlier: When there is not even underwear that fits, how can you expect more difficult and complex things than panties to work? When the social contract is threatened with widespread insecurity and lack of well-being, when Sweden has secured the strong economic cycle and still in many ways is less equipped than when we entered it and when the Swedish people do not feel that they get currency for their tax money, then wise priorities are needed. The Moderates' budget exercise therefore prioritises what we think is most important for Sweden. It's about re-establishing the social contract through significant increases in general state contributions to welfare and the greatest security effort in modern times – while at the same time prioritising defence. The whole idea of the additions to the Moderate and Christian Democrats budget was to give the Swedish Armed Forces the tools to implement the direction of the current defence decision. It is a matter of fully manning and equipping today's war organization. Madam President, I would like In addition to all this, efforts to strengthen civil defence need to be geared up in order to keep pace with decided military defence reinforcements. It is my view that the government is now putting in a sum of money that has been squandered. There are no clear directives on how it will work and, finally, there is no responsibility. Sweden needs a new government.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1041	Madam President, I would like A few short things. I didn't intend to go up and try harder, but after a few posts here I can't help it. Again, we support the Defence Committee's report. I do not think, as the previous speaker, that in this paragraph we have a government which, in any case, does not seek to shoulder its responsibilities. In fact, I think it does, and I have said before that I actually think that the Minister for Defence has done a good job. That's what I'm standing by. I will wait until I hear what is said at the beginning of next year, when we have talks again. Let's see if this money is wagered. We will maintain our way of doing things – unlike the Member from the Moderates, who are throwing in money. I would like to know more about the acquisition of material facilities. Here you have 15 billion, a little over, and you throw in 165 million. For what? What do you need the money for? And what's the connection to the defense committee's previous report? Before Christmas last year, we invested 18 billion more. Why? Well, the Armed Forces requested this for the years ‐ 19, ‐ 20 and ‐ 21. That's what it got. What's the situation for the Swedish Armed Forces today? Has something happened that undermines this money? We will find out after Christmas, and then we will make the necessary investments. But we're not going to throw 100 million in here. Civil protection and preparedness already have 1.3 billion. What do they need this money for? As the Center Party was on earlier here: What is the effect? We object to this way of pouting money a bit everywhere. The defense committee's report, we're going to finish it.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1048	Madam President, I would like I find it interesting to follow the Swedish Democrats in the debate. I feel like they're saying different things. You, Roger Richthoff, say that you are behind the government and that you do not need more money while I understood that your colleague said earlier that there is actually a need for more money and that you should make commitments and change laws and so on. I must be wondering if you're interacting. Then I think of the honourable Member's question. I believe that this initiative could have a better and faster impact. I am only thinking of all the attacks that are being warned about, for example in the FRA's annual report. There's a lot going on. It's not that we need to invest in a lot of extra shelters right now. That is no longer where we are in reality. We need investments in, for example, the cyber centre, which I believe can be developed more, and in many other parts. Just look at MSB. We don't know what summer we're going to have next year. Nor do we know what costs this could entail, whether there are fires or floods. How do Roger Richthoff and the Swedish Democrats think that these efforts could not lead to anything?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1054	Madam President, I would like It is quite interesting that the honourable Member, Alexandra, Here you throw in money and believe. Think the bets will have an effect. Believes in cybersecurity. Believes and believes. There's a big difference between us. We don't just want to believe but sit down with the FRA, as we have done before, and ask: What is the money going to do? What is it you cannot do if you do not receive these supplements? That is a completely different way of working, and I think we are keeping our way. The honourable Member says we are behind the government. We support the proposal of the Defense Committee. We've been trying to say that for quite some time now. Before we go in and criticise the government's appropriations for this, we must see what will come out of the debate next year, which will be raised with all the parties involved in the preparation. There's the Secretary of Defense, too. After that, we'll see what you're willing to bet. It is only then that we will have comments, if that money is not spent. However, there is clearly a clear majority in this House to pursue the proposal of the Committee on Defence. Then let's do it! Let us not throw in money because you think it can have an effect and think they need the money. There we differ clearly.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1058	Madam President, I would like Now it was not me who was included in the Defence Committee, but it was actually Mr Richthoff. There are several things that the Defense Committee has come up with that there is no funding for. Either the honourable Member does not remember those proposals, or it is clear that those proposals will have no effect. In that case, I wonder why the defense committee's report is even supported. I guess it would have been a lot more clever to have a report where you know that everything is effective and that you want to be behind. Better and faster effect of many things that are included I think everyone can benefit from. I think Roger Richthoff thinks so, too, deep down.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1061	Madam President, I would like A tip for Mr Alexandra is to read Värnkraft. It is a good description of what bets we make. There is a broad consensus on the one we signed up to, because with our signature we wanted to give recognition to this report. The means to complete this report are there a majority in the Riksdag to award. You'll throw in 450 yourself, or if there were 550 million next year. But you write in the committee motion that you will reach 84 billion in 2025. That's what your committee motion says. It's not 84 billion plus this 550 million, so you'll probably take them off the road to 84 billion. Here's a homework to do, I think.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1064	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for a rejection of the government proposal in favour of the particular opinion of the Moderates. Energy policy is so much bigger than just energy policy. Sweden has a long history of good access to energy. We have had energy where we needed it and with the access we needed. When it's over, we'll find new solutions. Our mining and iron and steel industry and our sawmills have always required a lot of energy. Forests were used as fuel and hydroelectric power was expanded. When the forest ran out and it was not possible to transport timber and ore, the railway was expanded and created new industrial sites. Much work has been done to achieve our success as an industrial nation. Our energy history is also very much our industrial history. It was in industry that it all began, which then led to the great modernisation of our society. Madam President, I would like It was only long later that energy was produced in a more industrial form to be used in our homes. This has been part of the good Swedish economic development. We would like to forget that, 150 years ago, Sweden was one of Europe's poorest countries. It was only in connection with industrialisation that the Swedish economy took off and our standard of living developed. Madam President, I would like The successful Swedish industry was and still depends on cheap and reliable energy. Now we are facing a new type of industrialisation. Digitalisation and AI, if we can handle them correctly, will mean a new positive development in society. But this, like the previous industrialisation, requires cheap and reliable energy. We also have the major climate challenge to take responsibility for. New cheap energy must deliver as little CO2 emissions as possible. Increased electrification of society means that we are slowly leaving the petroleum community and the petroleum age behind. Today's technology can create a sufficient amount of energy only if nuclear energy is part of the energy mix. Wind and solar energy have not yet been sufficiently stored to replace nuclear power. Even the days when it does not blow and the sun does not shine must be electric energy. Otherwise, our entire electrified society will stop. Nuclear power gives us the opportunity to remain competitive, continue to develop as a welfare state and continue to drive innovation for the further development of modern society. In fact, Sweden has a unique chance to remain one of the world's most innovative countries thanks to cheap and secure energy, something not all countries have. But it requires that we now look forward and not backward and that we can reconsider previous agreements and equip ourselves for the challenges of the future. As our history shows, our technology and industries are constantly changing and improving. Madam President, I would like That is why a new energy agreement is absolutely necessary – an agreement in which the parliamentary parties try to agree as broadly as possible on the energy policy of the future. The 2016 agreement now needs to be reviewed and updated. In addition, most of what was included in the 2016 Energy Agreement has been implemented today. We need new objectives and challenges and therefore a new energy agreement. We need policies that address the major challenges we are facing. We need policies for future impact needs and delivery capacity. We need to change the energy target to be fossil-free instead of renewable. This would open up for more nuclear power in the future, which is needed if we are to meet the climate targets despite the greater need for energy. Nuclear power is the type of energy that currently has the lowest emissions of CO2, and there is no climate advantage in shutting down nuclear power plants prematurely and replacing with anything else, such as wind power. However, everything we do to reduce the amount of fossil energy is crucial for the climate. Madam President, I would like The government has not heeded that we have seen from moderate quarters that we need to renegotiate, even though we have clearly pointed this out, and have not been open to the greatest possible consensus in Parliament. This is not taking responsibility for the long-term – a long-term approach that the industries are asking for so much and which does not put a wet blanket over the development, but affirms all the developments that are taking place now. The government seems to be more occupied by its own parties than by the climate and Swedish competitiveness. The energy issue is too important for that. A government supported by only 37% of Parliament, without support parties, should work in a more inclusive way, Madam President – a way that allows for a future energy policy with solutions to the problems we see. Since April, we have made it clear that the target of 100% renewable energy should be reconsidered in favour of fossil-free energy. Therefore, it is now time to demonstrate our great concern that the 2016 Energy Agreement does not hold up and leave it. We will seek as broad support as possible among the parties in the Riksdag for a new energy agreement, for the sake of Swedish competitiveness, climate and all our children.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1079	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson talked a lot about cheap energy. I have a very simple and straightforward question to Lotta Olsson: can she mention a single nuclear power plant, somewhere, at some point, built on market terms, without government subsidies and without government money?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1080	Madam President, I would like She can't, but they're also built a long time ago. Nor is it the case that water or wind power was built without government money. We have pampered a lot to initiate wind power, and we have pampered huge natural resources and money to expand hydropower. I do not even think it would have been possible to extend hydroelectric power if we were to do so today. Norrland had to make huge sacrifices for the hydropower we have. I therefore think that the question is really irrelevant.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1081	Madam President, I would like I note that Lotta Olsson could not mention such a thing, because it does not exist. Not once in the history of the world has it happened. What is happening now, however, is the expansion of wind power and other renewable power, on market terms. Support systems are no longer needed. Yet Lotta Olsson is talking about having cheap energy in the form of nuclear power. But there's no such thing as an anomaly. There is no such thing as cheap nuclear power. It requires government subsidies. Are the Moderates prepared to, if we are to have more nuclear power in Sweden as they say, put in government subsidies to get it? Because that's the only way. The Moderates and Lotta Olsson! Do you want government subsidies for nuclear energy?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1084	Madam President, I would like We can start by using the nuclear power plants we actually have until their lifetime is over. That's where we save huge resources. Nor is it possible for a wind turbine to be set up without resources. Unfortunately, nothing is free of charge when it comes to energy; Rickard Nordin should know that. Like I said, everything got puff money when it started. I myself have some wind power shares, and I know that this development did not get started, but the state invested money. I think it is quite uninitiated that only nuclear power is being attacked here. This has been the case with all our energies. Nor was it free when we cut down forests and built up hydropower in Sweden, as we did 150 years ago. I don't even understand the question. Why is only one single type of energy to be tackled in this way?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1086	Madam President, I would like Energy policy is long-term and largely based on the Energy Agreement. We saw yesterday that the Moderates were unable to stand up for long-term energy policy. It is not justified, or the adult for that matter, to make an agreement that is so crucial to the country. The situation is now in danger of creating uncertainty and concern among energy-intensive companies and industries at a time that is crucial for coping with climate change. You are also failing companies, which have invested in renewable production after the energy agreement. They are now in danger of losing out on many major investments in renewable energy. If you can't trust agreements to last, there's no point in making them. As far as I can tell, the reason why the Moderates want to leave the Energy Agreement is because they want to save nuclear power from the market. My question is similar to Rickard Nordin's question: should we state subsidise nuclear power, or should we electricity customers pay the price for new expensive nuclear power?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1090	Madam President, I would like I would like to turn the question around: Who will pay for the fact that we cannot establish companies in Skåne, Stockholm or Västerås? That is what it looks like: the lack of energy is right in front of the door. Ygeman has always denied this. We have had it up for debate and been very clear that we are seeing these problems, and now he has set up a crisis package. I find it strange that a crisis package is being put in place to remedy a problem that we believe does not exist. It well describes the Social Democratic view of energy policy: if we put our heads in the sand, the problem does not exist. People who invest in companies and in renewables are smarter than that. They see the problems coming. We will not have energy left over, but we will need much more energy for our industry and our transport system. Both Patrik Engström and I attended a seminar this morning. We were told there that shipping also wants to switch to renewable fuels. I do not understand the problem, that this would be a betrayal of renewables. On the contrary, we must use the entire palette to meet the energy challenge. At the same time, we cannot say as a government with 37 per cent of Parliament's seats: this is what we have always done. You have to seek broad agreements. It is a political dilemma, absolutely, but we have been pointing it out for six months.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1094	Madam President, I would like I looked at the production today at the clock. 09.27. Then nuclear power produced 7,541 megawatt hours, wind power produced 7,267 megawatt hours and we exported 5,246 megawatt hours. The fact that there is a crisis in energy, as the Moderates and the KD say, is therefore not true. To me, the Moderates instead appear to be some form of nuclear socialists. Nuclear power is seen as society's hope for the future. Cost what it wants, but obviously you should have nuclear power at any price. And Sweden does not need nuclear socialists.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1095	Madam President, I would like It's very exciting and surprising that Patrik Engström uses socialist. Minister Ygeman has said that we need a crisis package in Skåne. I do not understand how two different approaches can be taken – one in the Committee on Industry and the other at ministerial level. You have clearly stated that we do have a problem. If we export wind power, it's great, but what do we do when we don't have wind or sun or nuclear power? Should we then import fossil energy from Germany, or how does the government intend to achieve that? Those are the days that are the dilemma.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1098	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Lotta, for your speech. I am getting caught up in Lotta's speech. You tell us so well about our society in Sweden and that 150 years ago we were the poorest country in Europe. That is true, and much of the development since then has, of course, to do with industrialisation. Then there is a story that describes how we became a welfare country. Some of it has to do with what Lotta Olsson pointed out, that is, we had an industry that received cheap energy. But I am also proud to say that there were socialist reforms that made us the most equal country in Europe. But the Right voted against them every time. Should I read something from the list? There are 40 reforms that you voted against. The list is long. I would therefore like to ask Lotta Olsson: How good do you think you are at doing a future analysis of what is happening in society? You have voted against everything: eight hours of working day and social reforms that provide health insurance and a checkout. You have voted against everything! How good do you think you are at doing future analyses?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1101	Madam President, I would like Of course, good economic development is needed in order to spread prosperity. This is the energy dilem of the whole world. India and China are burning huge amounts of fossil fuels to lift people out of poverty. This was also the case in Sweden. Of course, there were forces that might not have made it possible to afford things. I wasn't there at the time, so I'm not gonna defend it. My entry into this is that we shall continue to be a welfare country and have the comfort that we have today and also improve it. If we are to be at the level we have today, we must continue to have very good products. Our steel is not bulk steel that is mass produced for cheap items, but we have the finest steel. We have the finest wood and very nice products. Then it takes a huge amount of energy. If we then say that we in Sweden do not want things that can be dirty and draw a lot of energy, we will also have to pay a price for it. It is always the case in society, whether you are in Birger Lahti's party or in mine, that it is the small people who get the worst. I don't want to help us get back into development. On the contrary, we shall strengthen our role and continue to build the welfare society. I think that is extremely important.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1106	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for your answer. I agree that we are in a situation in society where we must take a stand. How are we going to become this welfare country for future generations? You have demands on you. It's not for nothing that Google, for example, buys wind power produced electricity ten years ahead of time. They do not want nuclear power. The honourable Member himself was a bit concerned about this. Who will pay for the deficits that the honourable Member had examples of? Those deficits are not due to the fact that we do not have electricity. They are because we do not have network capacity. They have nothing to do with production. Then one might ask: Is it better to have wind power that costs 34 øre per kilowatt hour than new nuclear power that costs more than 1 krona per kilowatt hour?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1108	Madam President, I would like Of course, cheap energy is hugely important. It is also the case that we have nuclear power plants that will be able to continue going for many years at a very low cost and with a lower climate footprint than it would be if new wind turbines were set up. Nor do wind power plants live indefinitely, and they also cost manufacturing and setting up. It also costs to dig roads, to draw wires and to create new infrastructure for wind turbines. There's really nothing that's free. At the same time, progress is also being made in the nuclear field. We have also insisted that we invest more in research in this area, both in Sweden and within the EU. The whole of Europe must stand up to competition. We have competitors out there, and I do not want the Swedish people to pay because we have not been forward-looking on the energy issue.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1110	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs' report No 3, which deals with Category 21 Energy. I would like to start by expressing my support for the reservation contained in the report. A great deal has happened since the corresponding debate took place last year. It has become apparent to at least two parties – the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, who have now left the existing agreement – that there are no measures in the existing agreement to solve the problems we face, but also that there are things that need to be reformed, which has been the attitude of the Swedish Democrats since the agreement was concluded. Of course, this is something that is welcomed by me and from our side. It gives hope for a proper recovery in Swedish energy policy, where at least the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals now have many joint proposals. The work that has been going on in parallel with energy policy is the initiatives for a fossil-free Sweden. There, industry by industry has presented roadmaps on how to achieve fossil freedom. In these plans, it has been clear that this is something that will greatly increase the need for electricity, as it is often electricity as an energy carrier that is used to reduce just fossil dependence. At the same time, we can see a social development where there is an increasing rate of electrification – in the transport sector, in the establishment of server halls and in the construction of battery factories. It will further drive the electricity demand that we see in the future. It is a view that is now more or less shared by all stakeholders. But if these ambitions are to become a reality, it is of course necessary to have a reliable and robust power system, where you know that electricity is available when you need it. It is the empirical picture, and it has been a prerequisite for the power system to be this kind of enabler. But as energy policy is now primarily designed by the government, imposed by the Left Party and the Center Party, it is clearly determined to make the Swedish power system even more weather dependent. The focus continues to be on subsidies and subsidies, mainly for the intermittent power teams. As far as some of these parties are concerned, it is clear that it is the pursuit of the total abolition of nuclear energy that constitutes some form of ultimate goal. However, it can be noted that for their part this endeavour overshadows, for example, greenhouse gas emissions, which, despite the high tone of the debate, have alternated between being slightly increasing and being constant on the part of Sweden since the Green Party took office as a government party. If the power system is to be able to be a proper enabler for other sectors, a move is required, as we are already increasingly difficult to deal with the resulting power and capacity situation, while at the same time we see that it is becoming more difficult in the near future. Should the power system be able to be the proper enabler is required, as said this overtake. There must be good conditions for the planned power generation. We can see problems for several of the power teams. For cogeneration in the near future, it has been about the government, together with the JÖK:arna in record time, having forced through unimagined taxes with implications that may not have been taken into account and that one seems to have been taken off the bed. This is something that has also required the government to take urgent action to prevent crises that would have been driven by their own policies. We can see clouds of concern with regard to hydropower, where the national plan for its re-evaluation does not go directly with the political will and where active action is needed in order to do so. We can see concerns about the long-term prospects of nuclear power. The existing agreement, in so far as it still exists, partly adversely affects the biased interpretation of the energy policy target. Instead, there is now a great need to declare that nuclear power should have a given role in Sweden's long-term energy supply. Madam President, I would like Electricity is one of the most important energy carriers, enabling a fossil-free society. At the same time, however, there are others who are getting much more focus in other parts of the world and also in Europe. Sweden is slipping behind properly applied hydrogen technology. Swedish projects such as Hybrid, which we are in favour of, are of course good for the production of fossil-free steel. But it is far from sufficient ambitions if Sweden is to become fossil-free, as more energy carriers are needed. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose that a national hydrogen strategy be adopted as an offensive step in order to implement this in several sectors, and it is mainly linked to the transport sector. There the state has a role to play in the infrastructure around hydrogen filling stations, for example. This in itself would be a much greater effort for weather-dependent power generation than a direct subsidization of the Power Act, as only storage technology can parry for its intermittentity. In our draft budget we have an investment in this of SEK 100 million, which would be a first important step in raising ambitions in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats' draft budget also includes higher ambitions for energy research than in the government budget but also a specific investment in a research reactor for what is popularly known as fourth generation nuclear power. Since last spring there has been an announcement from the Riksdag that the energy research project should also be available for nuclear research. It is something that has unfortunately been neglected in Sweden for a long time as a result of the thought ban that has been in place here. Such an initiative would therefore be a step in the right direction based on what the Riksdag has decided on. In the concept of fourth generation nuclear power, we have the opportunity to reuse the nuclear fuel used in the past. Today it is considered waste, but it could be an asset and a resource in the future. Based on today's fuel, we use a very small proportion of the energy content, and some persistent isotopes entail a need to finalise the waste for nearly 100 000 years. If, instead, we were to decide to move forward with precisely the fourth generation of nuclear power, we would have the opportunity to increase the energy exchange a hundredfold while at the same time reducing time in final custody by more than 99%. When it comes to those parties that normally do not see nuclear energy as something positive but often talk about the circular economy, resource efficiency and the like, what other waste or in what other areas is the corresponding potential? Here we have the opportunity to solve an environmental problem, and we are burdening a few thousand generations less than if nothing were to be done. This, if anything, would be a good environmental policy and a proper step towards a real increase in resource efficiency.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1130	Madam President, I would like By decision of 27 November 2019, Parliament has established the financial framework for the various areas of expenditure. This means that Category 21 Energy will receive just under SEK 3.5 billion for 2020. Of course, there are good orientations in the Government proposal, for example the investment plans for the Swedish Power Networks and the powers of the Swedish Companies Agency for the same. In the Left Party Budget Movement 2915, we present a comprehensive budget policy and a proposal for a spending framework for Category 21 Energy. The proposal for appropriations in the field of energy is presented in a special exercise, 3019. The left-wing budget option should be seen as a coherent package in which no part or part can be broken out and treated in isolation. Against this background, I choose to refrain from taking part in the decision on appropriations and instead give my opinion in a separate opinion. The draft budget of the Left Party is a plan for equality and green change, in which the Left Party invests in the welfare of municipalities and regions, narrows the economic divides, prioritises the economically most vulnerable and proposes a large climate package for green change. This proposal is financed mainly by increased capital taxes and by an increase in taxes on high-income earners. With regard to Category 21 Energy, I would like to emphasise the following. I would have liked to see an increase in the envelope 1:3 Actions for renewable electricity production of SEK 50 million in relation to the government's budget. Furthermore, I would have liked to see an increase in the funding 1:5 Charging infrastructure along major roads of SEK 50 million for a greater investment in charging infrastructure. Since we think that the general situation should take precedence in the energy transition, for example in the case of public buildings such as hospitals and schools, they should be given the opportunity to install solar and perhaps even wind power. Therefore, I have also proposed that the Riksdag allocate SEK 750 million to a new grant for solar and wind power in public buildings. The total amount is that we want to invest SEK 850 million more than the government in Category 21. As I said earlier, our budget motion shows how this is financed. Madam President, I would like What has been a bit of the strength of energy issues lately is the Energy Agreement, which some of you concluded in summer 2016. It is no secret that the Left Party is not part of this agreement. But there are some logical reasons why we are not there. Notwithstanding our position on a few points in the agreement, there are things in it that make investors and industry air future confidence for a competitive industry that is truly seen as a forerunner. One thing that makes these winners and forerunners in many areas is that they get competitive electricity that is also renewable. And this is liked by future generations. But it is also liked by large customers around the world. Now what happens to the energy agreement? In speeches, it has been explained who has dropped it off. The Moderates and Christian Democrats thus choose to step off the important agreement. I and the Left Party really see the development that these two parties have chosen as very worrying. I do not mean just the irresponsibility of leaving the energy agreement. Madam President, I would like An appeal to my colleagues: let us continue on this green energy line, which will make us forerunners on the journey to zero emissions and 100% renewable. The world's countries jealously look at us, and then some choose to start sabotaging this green path into the future. These countries jealously look at Sweden's opportunities and what has happened and happens for industry. There are big players who have adopted the energy agreement and think it is good. The fact that there are some strong voices in Swedish industry that have flagged nuclear power and that some have chosen to jump on that boat makes me very surprised.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1140	Madam President, I would like Birger Lahti mentions that it is very unfortunate that we have chosen to leave the energy agreement. Then I would like to ask whether the Left Party also has a desire to be included in such a broad agreement. I share Birger Lahti's view that the broader and more long-term it may be, the better it is for Sweden. And the industry is asking for this. There are quite so many different points that Birger Lahti also sees but which are not included in the energy agreement but which you want to include more in the future. Then my question is: does the Left Party want to leave the walkover, or does it want to use its parliamentary power to influence it? Or is this left entirely to the Green Party and the Social Democrats in a configuration where we are still a support party to the government now that we have left the energy agreement? I know that Birger Lahti is very aware of what the conditions are and how much hard work it is for our industries to actually get all the money we need for school, health care and to build the welfare country forward. How does Birger Lahti see that the Left Party can stand outside and on your ability to participate in influencing a good and long-term energy policy? This is usually not so much about ideologies and socialism or not socialism, although Patrik Engström mentioned it as a part of the whole. But these are very pragmatic solutions, and we often agree on these issues.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1145	Madam President, I would like I thank Lotta Olsson for the question. As has certainly emerged from my work in committee, I always try to be pragmatic, and I try to find solutions. The same applies here. I'm no stranger to looking at what we can contribute. There was an explanation for a Congress decision and the wording that you can build new nuclear power in existing locations if there is no support. But I could actually make an interpretation even of my congress decision that as soon as possible may be 2040 or 2045. It's the fastest we can phase it out. But this wording is not enough. You want to back into a future. Many other countries say that the world does not want us to invest in new nuclear power in a country like Sweden because we have these conditions: We are sparsely populated, we have industries and we have investors who go into billions in wind power. And we have a hydropower resource that's like a battery. I understand that there are countries that see nuclear energy as part of the solution. But many have said that we in Sweden would go in and try forcefully. There is no way to get nuclear power in Sweden without aid that would work. I bow to the facts that nuclear power will be tough in a while. I thought this deal was wide open. But it is only the market that can decide whether we should have nuclear power or not. Today, I realize that maybe that's the closest thing you came. But we should not think that we in Sweden should be able to get a new reactor in Sweden without support.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1149	Madam President, I would like You can look at the world around us. In Germany, they have moved to wind power and use a large part of the bulk energy and import fossil gas from Russia. Is it part of Birger Lahti's solution when renewables are not enough in Sweden in the future? France has 75% nuclear power and now has a target of phasing out and trying to come down to 50%. They do not have hydropower, but try to have nuclear power as bulk and then build on with renewable wind and sun. Unfortunately, we cannot make full use of the large nuclear reactor, the sun, because we cannot store this power. But no one would be happier than me if one day we could.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1152	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate, Lotta Olsson! You take two examples, Germany and France. As I said, Sweden cannot be compared to those countries, because we are a sparsely populated country. There is a lot of investment in wind power; there will have been 70 – 80 billion investments in the land area when it is finished, and there is very little protest against it. I understand that there are sometimes many who protest against wind power in sparsely populated areas, and wind power has its problems. But we have hydropower, wind power and renewables. Then we can't start with coercion. Finland has Olkiluoto, which would have cost EUR 3 billion. Today they are up to 10 billion, and the power plant is not even finished. You don't know when it'll start producing. There you have a good example of how nuclear power is going, Lotta Olsson!
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1155	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats are in favour of a policy of security and security of energy supply, which is an important engine in Sweden's economy and crucial to prosperity. Swedish companies and consumers should be able to trust that there is a stable and reliable electricity supply no matter where they live or operate in the country. As we see it now, Sweden has several challenges ahead when it comes to changing, both in the industry and in the transport sector. A challenge but also an asset that we have ahead of us is electrification. More and more reports show that we need more electricity in the future, not less, if we are to meet the climate challenges. We Christian Democrats want to see a future for hydroelectric power and nuclear power as well as wind, solar and bioelectric power. Sweden today has an energy mix that we should be proud of, and we will need more of everything. Our common enemy in this should be coal and oil, and the ambition should be for us to push fossils out in a responsible way. Sweden's electricity needs will increase, and this significantly, if we are to continue to develop society, reduce oil dependence and at the same time meet climate targets. I stood a year ago in this House and said exactly what I am going to say now: planning for increased use of electricity should be based on an electricity demand of at least 200 terawatt hours in 2045 if all commitments are to be met. All non-fossil forms of energy are needed here, and even an extended electricity grid is crucial if this is to be locked. This is a claim confirmed by a number of reports presented in the past year. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, IVA and energy companies all point in the same direction: When the climate roadmaps for the transport and industrial industries are compiled, the need seems to be at least 200 terawatt hours in 2045. Madam President, I would like Alarm reports about Sweden's electricity supply are heard from several sources. We Christian Democrats think it is time to take these concerns very seriously. At present, we need to take responsibility for the fact that there is enough electricity in the right place at any given time, and that is not the case today. When major shortcomings in electricity supply are repeatedly pointed out and when concerns have become a part of the industry's everyday life, it has an impact on the future to the extent that we need to take action. Industry accounts for thousands of jobs, which are important for Sweden's prosperity. More companies are making a transition today and are moving towards electrification and digitalisation. If nothing is done in the near future, more companies will have to reconsider whether Sweden gives them the best conditions. It is of great importance what signals we send to investors regarding start-ups of, for example, data and server halls. We need to see and take these concerns seriously. Madam President, I would like The energy agreement concluded between five parties in 2016 sets an energy target, while at the same time there are expressions of continued operation of nuclear power. The reform agenda decided on at the time is almost complete, and at the same time new energy policy issues have emerged. This is where the big question marks have emerged, which has meant that we, as politicians, have not been able to deliver clarity to the industry. This has been a problem. It is no secret that, together with the Moderates, we have tried the issue of an updated energy agreement that clarifies the ambitions regarding how Sweden's energy policy should be interpreted, that an updated energy target should be tested and what issues we consider to be very keen to address and pursue. We have not heard this in the energy agreement, and we have therefore taken the decision to leave it. Among other things, we have put forward proposals to change the energy target so that it cannot be interpreted incorrectly and so that nuclear power can remain in place even after 2040. Together with both Moderates and Liberals, we presented nine points a few weeks ago. We have a target of a 100% fossil-free electrical system. We want to protect existing nuclear power through life-long extensions. We want a road map towards fourth generation nuclear power. We want to investigate the design of the electricity market. We want to carry out an analysis of the supply of electricity. We want common EU rules for new nuclear reactors. We want to conduct nuclear research in energy research. We want taxes and subsidies to be directed towards reducing emissions. We want to safeguard the competitiveness of cogeneration. If we decide that Sweden will cope with the transition to electrification, Sweden needs to resume the planning of new nuclear reactors. Sweden should cooperate with other nuclear countries, both in Europe and on other continents, to develop a few standardised power plants with a reasonable price tag and construction time. New nuclear power is an important issue not only for Sweden but above all at a global level. Today it is Russia and China that are building the most reactors, and here the Western countries have a common responsibility to be involved. Sweden needs to put pressure on our neighbours Germany, Poland, Denmark and Finland to dismantle their coal power. These countries have coal power equivalent to 80 nuclear reactors. In addition to being hugely climate-destructive, carbon power contributes annually to the premature death of hundreds of people due to asthma, cancer, and other diseases caused by coal burning. If these coal power plants are not closed, what Sweden does for the climate will be almost meaningless. Madam President, I would like Christian Democrats want to see a diversity of renewable energy in transport, industry, heating and electricity generation. We aim for an energy system that includes both large-scale and small-scale elements adapted to local and industrial needs. Each force has its advantages and disadvantages, and it is these different forces that provide a robust and sustainable energy supply. The major challenge is to secure and supply electricity in the long term at internationally competitive prices and to ensure that research and new technologies are added in different energy areas, which will be central in the future for us to have a stable electricity and energy system. It is thanks to the combination of nuclear, hydro, bio and wind power that Sweden is the country within the EU that has the lowest climate emissions in electricity generation. The Christian Democrats' overall draft budget should be seen as a whole. No part, and no parts, can be broken out and treated in isolation. Since Parliament has established the financial framework for the various areas of expenditure and has given a different direction to budgetary policy than I wish, I am abstaining from taking part in the decision on the allocation of appropriations in Category 21 Energy.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1178	Madam President, I would like There were many interesting things that Camilla Brodin highlighted. You could talk about this for a long time! I am a little curious, because KD is talking about the need to investigate and change the market model. How does Camilla Brodin feel about Clean Energy for All Europeans Package – or Clean Energy Package – that the Christian Democrats and Moderates clubbed through in the European Parliament as late as March?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1180	Madam President, I would like This is a question that we have presented here. We should look at the whole system and, of course, these issues must be taken into account. We see what challenges we have in Sweden. You need to find a market model that corresponds to a security of supply within the country, which Parliament has decided on after an announcement this spring. We need to look at the issues together and lift them up, and that is what we have been saying since the spring.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1182	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not receive an answer. Does Camilla Brodin think that this goes together with what they voted for themselves in the European Parliament? The truth is, it doesn't. The truth is that we do not have a Swedish electricity market, but we have a Nordic or a Nordic-Baltic electricity market. It's not something we can decide on our own. The truth is that at European level, the Christian Democrats have voted to remove power-based controls and to remove the type of pricing that Camilla Brodin stands in the Swedish Parliament's pulpit and speaks warmly for. This doesn't make any sense. Is it the case that the Christian Democrats at the Swedish level do not know what they are voting for in the European Parliament? Or is it that it is believed that decisions in the Swedish Parliament will change the whole European system? What really applies when it comes to market models for the Christian Democrats? Is this the decision you make in the European Parliament, or is that what you say in the speaker's chair here? Because we don't have a Swedish electricity market. We have a Nordic, a Nordic-Baltic or a European electricity market, because the Christian Democrats themselves voted in favour of this in the European Parliament. What is really true of Camilla Brodin and the Christian Democrats?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1188	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Rickard Nordin raises this issue when he knows that we want to look at it from a holistic perspective. No matter what you do in Europe, we need to look at the problems that we are still seeing here in Sweden and also look at the electricity market model that we are part of.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1190	Madam President, I would like Sweden has completely unique conditions to cope with the transition to renewable energy while ensuring security of supply. Many claim that Sweden may have the best conditions in the world for this. In this work it has been a huge advantage to have an energy agreement in place to create long-term sustainability and security for market players, who can also contribute to jobs and investments in Sweden. Now, then, the Christian Democrats are choosing to make the agreement, and by doing so, they are failing all the companies that have believed in it. They have believed in Swedish politics and believed in long-term sustainability when it comes to investments in renewable energy. I can also read from what Camilla Brodin has said in the speaker's chair that nuclear power is the crux of the matter. In some way it is a question of saving nuclear power from the market; at least that is how I interpret it. My questions to Camilla Brodin will be the same as those I put to the Member of the Moderates: how much will the state subsidise nuclear power? Or are we electricity customers supposed to pay an electricity price that is two or three times as high?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1194	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member raises a number of issues. Here, I think it is important to see what response the Social Democrats have had to ensure that companies have security of supply. Look at the companies in Skåne, and look at the companies in Stockholm! Look at all the companies that are knocking on the door to Sweden and who cannot be told about energy supply that can be trusted! I believe that the Social Democrats owe an answer here. The only thing that has been said during this time is that you are incredibly proud that you have some who affirm the nuclear power on one side and some who affirm the wind power on the other and that you can still get it all together. It is absolutely admirable, but the problems are not taken seriously. Here the Social Democrats themselves have opposed an agreement by presenting the CHP tax and the waste incineration tax, which means that we now have to patch and fix what we have done ourselves with a crisis package and with a short-term solution. I think this is the big issue in the whole system. Sure, we have nuclear power, but we will need more of everything – more of everything we have in Sweden today. This applies to nuclear power, hydroelectric power, wind power, solar cells and biopower. We will need more of everything if we are to deliver with Swedish delivery security in the future.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1199	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not get an answer to the questions. But maybe I hadn't fully counted on it either. I understand that the Christian Democrats and Camilla Brodin may be a little upset about the deal the Minister for Energy made with the industry in terms of local capacity. Your whole argument went down with this. There were lower electricity grid prices and more capacity in the networks in Skåne and in the Stockholm region. It's a fantastic deal – lower prices for consumers and more online capacity. It's amazing! To me, as to the Moderates, this appears to be nuclear socialism. That is what I am landing in: nuclear power at any price regardless of the consequences. That makes me deeply concerned, Camilla.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1202	Madam President, I would like I don't know which end to start. But here you can thank the Social Democrats for what Olof Palme did in his time when he chose to invest in nuclear power in the first place. But then you cannot stand up for the decisions you make. Do you really think that it is a long-term approach in the patch-and-paper technology that you now use to solve the energy problems and electricity problems in Skåne and Stockholm in the short term? What's the next place? What money should you use to patch and fix again? I think that is irresponsible politics. Here we need to find a way to give the market long-term opportunities to do this on market terms. Here the Social Democrats have something to respond to.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1205	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating Category 21 Energy. First of all, I would like to support the proposal in the motion and reject the motion. On 27 November, the Swedish Parliament decided on the framework of just over SEK 3.4 billion. Energy policy is long-term and largely a consequence of the Energy Agreement. Sweden must have a robust electricity system with high security of supply, low environmental impact and electricity at competitive prices. Around Sweden, the industry turns into a more climate-friendly production. When industrial companies reduce the use of fossil energy, it will make a huge difference to the climate. But we should also remember that we are future-proofing Sweden as an industrial nation and Swedish jobs. Madam President, I would like After today's debate, one might ask: Are we on the right track? Do we see any positive signs? I still have to try to raise my eyes and say: Yes, I do. Someone in the debate mentioned the Hybrid initiative, which SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall have started with. It is a brilliant example of projects that aim to make fossil-free steel. SSAB will now offer the first fossil-free steel on the market already in 2026. We see a transport sector electrified, and the use of biofuels from forests, for example, is increasing. We see a wind power industry that has completely exploded, where it is planned for investments of 80 billion in new wind power. We see that the PV revolution continues with over 10,000 new grid-connected PV plants in 2018. But we also see that the transition places new demands on society. There are challenges, and we must deal with them responsibly. That is why it is good that the government makes the following priorities in the 2020 budget. In order to achieve the energy policy objectives, a strong and determined commitment to research and innovation in the energy sector is needed. It will also focus on areas that have the potential for growth and exports. In order to meet society's needs for efficient energy supply, state-of-the-art processes also need to be streamlined. Fossil dependence in the transport sector must be broken. This is why new support for charging infrastructure is being introduced along our major roads. A national electrification strategy is developed and an electrification commission is set up. The County Administrative Boards of Stockholm, Skåne, Uppsala and Västra Götaland will map, analyse and report the impact situation at regional and local level in each county. The Electricity Market Inspectorate receives reinforcements as well as a mandate on the capacity shortage of electricity grids in growth regions and will propose possible solutions. A study will also look at the conditions to allow more people to take part in the tax reduction for micro-generation of renewable electricity.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1219	The Government intends to introduce a new deduction for green technology in 2021. The development of electricity network charges will be closely monitored, and the Energy Step for energy efficiency in industry will continue to do so in 2020. As regards the EU and international cooperation, intensive work is under way to implement changes brought about by the EU's review of energy legislation. A tax on the incineration of waste has been introduced. The aim of the tax is to achieve the national climate targets and a more resource efficient and non-toxic waste management. It is now important for the government to monitor developments in the competitiveness of cogeneration. The issues of the reduction obligation for aviation biofuels and the abolition of offshore wind connection charges are being addressed in the Government Office. Someone mentioned earlier Svenska Kraftnät's investment plans, and we can see that it is SEK 13 billion for the years 2020– 2022. Here alone in the Stockholm area, network investments in the multi-billion-dollar class will take place over the next few years. So a lot is happening in the field of energy. Madam President, I would like What, then, is the difference between the parties in the field of energy? The Conservative parties – the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats – all want to reduce the funding by between 254 and 524 million. What is common to the Conservatives is the compact resistance to supporting the expansion of the PV, while at the same time saving nuclear power on the market. The Left is making ambitious investments with 850 million in solar and wind power in public buildings – interesting thoughts. Madam President, I would like Finally, I will say a few words about long-term energy policy and what it means in the country. I come from Avesta in Dalarna, a fantastic place to live and live in and with proud industrial traditions in steel, wood and cardboard. The industry there has been good at changing. They have specialized and are world leaders in manufacturing products in their fields. But now the whole society is changing, and digitalisation is creating a new electricity-intensive industry, namely server halls. In Avesta, Google is now planning a really large server hall. One might wonder why Google chooses to establish itself in Sweden and Avesta. What I can see is a long industrial tradition that has created an electricity infrastructure that means that there is a robust electricity grid with high security of supply, low environmental impact and electricity at competitive prices. Madam President, I would like This is now at risk when M and KD choose to leave the energy agreement – an agreement that virtually everyone has praised, from Swedish industry to the environmental movement and everyone in between. It is an agreement that has given stability and long-termism and has made it possible, for example, to plan for wind energy investments of 80 billion. This agreement does not mean a deadline for any nuclear power. It is necessary to extend life expectancy and to build new nuclear power. No political decision has been taken to close down nuclear reactors. Yet they choose to leave the energy agreement. The action of M and KD is now in danger of throwing Sweden into a paralysing debate on nuclear power, for which no one is a winner, and for that they will be held responsible. It cannot be stressed enough that energy policy is long-term and will last for a long time to come.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1232	Madam President, I would like Thank you for giving me the opportunity to ask some supplementary questions after Patrik Engström's speech. Patrik Engström warned us earlier about nuclear socialism. I myself was very frightened by that concept. Socialism is always a danger, as I see it. I would like to ask Patrik Engström whether it is not energy socialism when you want to retain the solar cell support, because we do not actually need solar cell support anymore. Ikea now sells solar cells, and after a relatively short period of time, five or seven years, you get back your money spent on solar cells. Then I find it very strange that the state chooses to prioritise solar cells. I see it as a socialist act that the state should pay when you can actually pay yourself. Furthermore, taxes are levied on the incineration of waste, which means that you may not think it is an activity that you want to do. Then we'll have other problems. We will have power problems, and we will also have waste that may not be managed in an environmentally sound way. This is really energy and also climate socialism. Madam President, I would like I have to ask Patrik Engström if this is not much more worrying than the nuclear socialism that Patrik Engström fears.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1237	Madam President, I would like I managed to put a word into nuclear socialism. That's the way it could be. First of all, Lotta Olsson's questions are relevant. As far as waste is concerned, I think it is quite reasonable to bear one's own environmental costs. We have set a political goal for us to steer towards a fossil-free society. Should we then provide subsidies and support for our reductions in certain areas? Is that what we're supposed to be doing when it comes to fossil fuels? What we're actually doing is we're removing the reduction. I still think we should have that with us. Then there are challenges with cogeneration and the competitiveness of the district heating sector in general. As I said, we need to follow this closely, because the cogeneration sector is an absolutely crucial sector for us to make the transition. The second question may I answer in the next line change, because unfortunately I forgot to write it down.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1242	Madam President, I would like I can remind Patrik Engström that the question was why we should have targeted support for solar cells that are actually no longer needed. I cannot understand why a good investment in solar cells in a house or an apartment owned, giving a write-off of five to seven years, should be subsidised by the state. In my world, energy policy is also about saving resources. I don't think the government should fertilize with resources where they're not needed. As I said in the line shift with Birger Lahti earlier, money is needed for so much other than unnecessary support functions. I'd like some answers.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1244	Madam President, I would like I apologise to Lotta Olsson for not answering last time. Lotta Olsson may not have understood that we are announcing a new support in 2021. We still have the PV support in 2020, and in 2021 there will be a new form of support or deduction. I believe that in future we will need to support new types of energy to enter the market. It is clear that the PV support has been extremely popular, for many PV installations have been built, which is good. But now we see that in the future we can cut back on aid, and so we announce this for 2021.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1247	Madam President, I would like Member Patrik Engström raised several challenges, and there are a lot of them. We have capacity challenges, we want to electrify industry and transport and we want to be able to welcome here more electricity intensive industry. The honourable Member also pointed out that the Swedish industry has paid tribute to the Energy Agreement. But before the summer, the base industry was gathered to close Ringhals 1 and 2. I do not understand how the honourable Member believes that the energy agreement would respond to the challenges of the future. Do the Social Democrats not want to take responsibility for the climate challenges we have and strengthen Swedish industry and competitiveness? If they wanted to do so, they would have gathered all the parties in Parliament to hold new talks about a new energy agreement that really tackles the climate challenges and strengthens Swedish competitiveness.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1250	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Arman for the question. It is clear that energy policy has involved many people over the past year. There are certainly several reasons for this interest. One reason is that there has been widespread concern about whether we will be able to do this. The answer from the Liberals and other bourgeois parties has been more nuclear. They have every right to say that, and that may be the case. However, new nuclear power tends to be very expensive to build, and I do not see that consumers are particularly interested in paying the price for this. Should we let the market control the energy mix? I understand that we are doing this in the Energy Agreement. There is no expiry date for nuclear power, and there is the possibility of life extension and even of building new nuclear power. I would not have said no if the Liberals wanted to join the energy agreement, but unfortunately we do not have the energy agreement. I do not know what this will lead to in the future. It is clear that energy policy needs a long-term approach, but this is the case 24 hours after the agreement fell, it is too much to ask me to answer the question of whether we should take a new approach to an energy agreement 2.0. We had a good deal that we could have built on. Now some parties chose to leave it, and then they have to stand their throw.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1255	Madam President, I would like It does not come as a flash from a clear sky that we think the government should call for new talks. Both us and the Moderates and the Christian Democrats have been asking for it for quite some time. The point is that today's energy agreement does not respond to tomorrow's challenges. The energy policy targets of 100% renewable are like saying: You are welcome to build your office building here, but our goal is to have a green area here in 20 years. Would a company invest then? I don't think so. We need an energy policy that strengthens Swedish competitiveness and really tackles the climate challenges, and that requires the government to both assume its responsibility for it and invite wide-ranging talks.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1258	Madam President, I would like I hear Arman is a little disappointed not to be in an energy agreement. I would have liked to have seen one where the Liberals were there too. An agreement involves negotiating; giving and taking. I believe that the Liberals could have been a winner in terms of the basis that was sent out to the executive group and that some parties chose to say no to. But now we're not there. As I said, negotiations have to give and take, and, unfortunately, if you hold onto a target and are not prepared to negotiate on the basis of any other principle, it will be difficult to make agreements.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1260	Madam President, I would like I take up where Patrik Engström and I finished our previous line shift. As I pointed out, the CHP tax and the forthcoming waste incineration tax are in breach of the agreement we jointly entered into. I didn't get an answer if Patrik Engström thought it was broken. It is a matter of rapid implementation with three months' respite in order to implement this transition. According to the Law Council and the industry, nothing indicates that this is an environmental investment. Not even listening to it but letting a whole industry go on their knees and shut down production while Skåne and Stockholm have a lack of capacity makes the situation worse. Then a crisis package was launched. Does the honourable Member know how many companies contacted each region when they heard that there was still little capacity? Nevertheless, this capacity was only able to compensate in the acute situation that was there and then. I got a few questions in my head when I heard that the energy agreement was not there. I think it is completely dead because the honourable Member said so. Has the others also made the agreement? In that case, I've missed it. How should we continue to manage security of supply and take responsibility for entrepreneurs to be able to establish themselves in our big cities?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1265	Madam President, I would like I do not, of course, know how many companies contacted the honourable Member about the lack of capacity. But a number of companies contacted me. How many I can't say straight away, but there were a number of companies who expressed concerns about the future. As I said earlier, I perceived that what was done was still good. In what Camilla Brodin calls a crisis package, we solved the acute capacity shortage while reducing electricity grid costs. After all, it must have been good for the industry. As far as capacity is concerned, that is exactly what the honourable Member says. Heat is a key issue and we must safeguard the competitiveness of the cogeneration sector over time. Another part is investment in networks. You can ask yourself questions when you start looking at how many billions are currently invested in networks and you can see that we still have a built-up need. This suggests an enormous debt actually. We haven't invested in networks like we should have before. This is tragic, but we cannot do much about it. We are investing so many billions today that there is a touch of staggering. Don't take it as an absolute truth now, but I think it's between 13 and 15 billion just here in the Stockholm region in the next few years. How much more should we be able to invest in short time to solve this? If it had been easy, we would have done it, I would say. I believe that the lack of capacity concerns cogeneration and the issue of the network.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1270	Madam President, I would like It is good that you describe a small part of the questions I asked, Patrik Engström. My question was that I understood that you told me here that the energy agreement has fallen completely and that there are no parties that have any agreement left, even though we are only two parties that have left it. Then I wonder: in what way would the offer that came be to the benefit of the Liberals when they were not prepared to talk with all the parties? You just wanted to talk to the Liberals? I don't understand.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1272	Madam President, I would like The Energy Agreement is not dead. However, it is of limited scope, to say the least, when two parties leave it. I would say that in the bid or document that was sent over to, among others, Camilla, almost all the demands were met, except one. It is a question of subsidised nuclear power. Why do we not want to subsidise nuclear power? Because we want to prioritise welfare.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1273	Madam President, I would like Although it was in a sideline, it was welcome that Patrik Engström lifted up the condition processes. They are a major problem and one of the reasons why we have the capacity challenge that we have right now, with long lead times when it comes to building, among other things, electricity grids. I am therefore a little curious: what proposals do the Social Democrats have to shorten lead times and reduce the scope of permit processes?
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1274	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the investigation that, if I remember correctly, came early last autumn or last summer and that was about this Rickard Nordin knows very well that it is still being prepared in the Government Office, as it is so nicely called. I cannot therefore respond directly to exactly what is going to happen. However, I can see that when we meet the industry, no matter who it is, this issue comes up. It is quite clear that if we manage to take a number of steps, which may even be rather small but still go in the right direction in this area, it will have a decisive impact on what Mr Nordin is addressing, namely how we are going to deal with the licensing processes when we build new networks.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1276	Madam President, I would like The network concession investigation is estimated to reduce the permit process by one to two years. If you go from ten to twelve, at best eight to ten, it won't solve the problem. The reason why I ask is that every time we sit in negotiations under the January agreement, the Center Party, as the only party, is hard on for shorter permit processes and faster and more efficient implementation, both online and for industrial start-ups and production of various kinds. Every time! And we are alone in pursuing these issues. If the online concession inquiry is the only answer the Social Democrats have, I am concerned, because then we will not be moving forward in this. That is simply not enough. It is the industry's assessment and the investigation's assessment that this is only a first step. If the Social Democrats do not have any other information or suggestions to give, I am concerned.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1278	Madam President, I would like I can inform Rickard Nordin that I support him in his work and negotiations. It is quite clear that if we do not solve this, we will have major problems, not only in the energy sector but in a variety of other areas of society, because the development of society is much faster than what state processes or, for that matter, certain political processes are doing. This is a key issue for the development of society, I would say, and I support Mr Rickard in these discussions, although I am not in those rooms.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1279	Madam President, I would like Think about what happens in the energy world! When we had this debate a few years ago – not long ago – the energy agreement did not exist. It wrote political history in Sweden. At the time, five parties agreed on long-termness, stable rules of play and good conditions. The energy industry made the wave, and the level of conflict was lowered. Finally, we could remove the issue from the political agenda. At last there would be some peace and quiet in the energy debate, and secure investment for those who want to invest in new production. In reality, it clearly did not become long-term rules of play. In reality, there are parties that destroy long-term and stability for party political gain, and perhaps for lack of other climate policy, without even wanting to come to the negotiating table. For the truth is that today we would have had the first negotiation meeting. Today, we would continue to discuss the future challenges we are facing. There are a number of challenges. The fact that the discussions are being dropped before they have even begun clearly shows that it was not interesting to discuss. In the next breath, inviting all parties to talk makes you a bit thoughtful. What is a handshake from the Moderates or Christian Democrats really worth? How am I supposed to trust that you want to agree on things in the long term if you drop out as soon as it doesn't fit? For me, it's incredibly incomprehensible. And it is not worthy of those who want to take responsibility and be part of steering Sweden and take responsibility for Swedish competitiveness. The energy companies went out yesterday and said that the dropout threatens investments – investments that are needed so well, investments that can tackle real problems, not politically painted windmills. Instead, reality builds windmills, or wind power. Not even the most optimistic scenarios that we had three or five years ago could tell how well things have gone since then. They are radically surpassed. Technology development is phenomenal. It has never been so cheap to build solar electricity or wind power. New solar electricity is in fact competing out existing coal power in large parts of the world, and wind power is being built in Sweden on market terms. Note: Market conditions! It is perhaps the first time in Swedish history that this is done for energy production, and that is something that we should affirm. We're going to phase out the electrical certificates. They're no longer needed. But we should not make up other subsidies and political points about what to build instead. It is exciting with the technology development where we can build on market conditions and we see that it is something that can be driven on. Perhaps electricity and energy are not something we need to do in the future? This can create new opportunities that together with climate change and the cure and stopping them can create completely new business opportunities. But at the same time, of course, the road there needs to be as smooth as possible. We must use the systems we have built and the reality in which people live. It will not be that all people get up in the middle of the night and wash, for example. These are the things that should be done automatically. But we need a user flexibility to cut power peaks, because that's what's been the big problem. It is not that there has been a lack of electricity during all hours of the day to Malmö, for example, where there have been capacity challenges. There are certain occasions, and then it is rather foolish not to address these particular occasions. You can do that with new technology. We see in the scenarios that the Swedish Energy Agency has developed that if we let the market control, we will be able to cope with quite a lot of these challenges. If you allow the price of electricity to vary and, for example, do not have a fixed tax that moves towards rather stupid institutions that ensure that we cannot use the price variations that actually exist, then subsidies for individual power strokes are not needed. If we let the market act and clear the regulatory framework, we can create new business models and free others through flexibility. That storage of solar energy that Lotta Olsson spoke of before, I can tell you already exists. We store quite a lot of sun, for example, in Swedish biopower, in the Swedish forest, which we then use in the combined heat and power. We can store solar electricity in pump power in hydroelectric power, so when there is a lot of sun, you store it in the hydroelectric storage. The entire switchover to the electric car system provides a fantastic potential for energy storage in the batteries that are there. This is not a technical challenge; it has already been resolved a long time ago. This is about political will. The discussion on individual power strokes we left behind in the Center Party at the Alliance Energy Agreement. We said: Fine, build nuclear power, whoever wants! It's been allowed for a decade. But obviously no one wanted to. Then I think it is quite unnecessary to reopen that discussion. It is a bit exciting that those who usually sing the praises of the market suddenly know which technology is best and which solution to use but perhaps forget what subsidies are required because the market has never ever built such a power plant. Instead, let us focus on the problems and the solutions that exist, that is, the problems that exist in reality and which solutions are best suited to dealing with them. I would very much like to have discussed this in the context of a new discussion in the Energy Agreement. We have a local power shortage, a capacity challenge, in several cities around Sweden. There have been problems in Malmö and Stockholm. Uppsala has had it for a long time as has Mälardalen. There are real challenges to be addressed here. But then it is the bottlenecks in the networks to focus on. You can produce as much energy as you want, but it won't help if it doesn't get into the cities. I have probably not heard anyone propose either large wind farms or nuclear power plants inside central Stockholm or Malmö. Rather, it is about flexibility, network expansion, energy efficiency, local markets and licensing processes, where the Center Party has proposed not only short-term processes in general but a green trail for environmentally smart investments. It is nice that Patrik Engström agrees with us, but it is not enough for an individual member of the Swedish Parliament to do so. It would be good if his government wanted to pursue such issues as this. We also see a development where we can in the short term have some challenges around, for example, system services and part of the national impact balance. Then that's what we're going to deal with. Then that is what we should be aiming for, and that is when we must look at what solutions exist. It is clear that nuclear power is a solution in that case. But that is not, of course, the best solution. If you look at how to procure system services in other countries, you can see that batteries benefit from frequency regulation, for example. We see that wind power can deliver reactive power. That is what they are saying today: if you just ask for it, we will solve it. The problem is that so far no one is asking for it. Why, then, should we decide politically that someone should be paid for something that is not needed? On the day we have a shortcoming, it is reasonable for us to procure that shortcoming, and then we will see what kind of technology it will be instead of politics deciding. We will also need more electricity in the future. Then we need to take responsibility for that transition. In other parts of this budget, we support the non-carbonisation of steel production. We are investing in negative emissions, where Stockholm Exergi has actually this week inaugurated a facility that allows you to capture carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. It's money we've been involved in. In this part of the budget, we are also making efforts to expand the charging infrastructure where it is not market-wise profitable in order to be able to participate in the resettling process. It's about the inlands of Norrland, parts of Småland, Dalsland, Värmland – places where it's pretty sparse, but where you will need this stuff to be able to join in and change. Finally, Madam President, we have had a fantastic development in Sweden. As I said, this is perhaps the first time that we can build things on market conditions. Then let us not destroy it, but let us affirm it. It may not be suitable for all parties' policies, but then perhaps it is politics that is wrong with and not the market. We in the Center Party will defend the green transition. We protect Swedish industry, Swedish competitiveness and households. More parties should do the same. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1301	Madam President, I would like It is exciting to hear Rickard Nordin and his future visions and also what problems the new constellation in the January agreement seems to have. There the Center pushes for faster conditions and has difficulty getting it through. It would be great to have a new energy agreement because it seems difficult to get such things through in this context. A good thing to bring! Rickard Nordin also talks about all types of energy carrying themselves, while the PV support does not seem to be in the same regulatory framework. But we really don't need to support solar cells anymore. If it is now that you can manage with solar cells and wind power, Gotland would be a great area that you can let be completely self-sufficient in fossil- and nuclear-free energy. But that's not what it looks like. On the contrary, we want a new power line to Gotland, which I understand. It does not stand in practice. We're not there yet. We really acknowledge the fact that batteries and new technologies are being expanded, that there is a great deal going forward. But we're not really there. We need to phase out the wind power certificates. I think so, too. It's really important. If we are now going to buy electricity and it does not exist, because it is actually the case that Germany only has wind power, is it fossil electricity we are going to buy if we cannot produce ourselves? That's a lot of question marks. I absolutely believe that the intention is good, but I certainly do not get the equation to go together.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1308	Madam President, I would like Let's try to pick off and perhaps enlighten Lotta Olsson about a couple of things. We trade quite a lot with electricity in both Sweden and the Nordic countries, and most of the imports that take place are Norwegian hydropower and not German fossil electricity. So I think we can forget that right away. It would certainly be worth lifting faster state processes in energy talks, but why didn't you come today then? You had the opportunity to get there and run it. There was a great agenda to discuss, but you chose not to show up. What's the problem, Lotta? Of course we can't solve everything with solar cells and wind power. Nor has anyone claimed it. I highlighted, for example, the issue of bioenergy and hydroelectric power in my speech. Nobody thinks we can solve everything with one thing. It is the combination that is by far the best in the market, and it is usually something that the Moderates take on. You usually want the market to run things. We're gonna phase out the solar support. It is even agreed in the budget. So I do not see what the problem is. When it comes to the Gotland cable, I think Lotta Olsson can read a little. The Gotland cable is needed primarily because Gotland wants to export more electricity and because the existing cables are old and worn out, which means that you cause power cuts when you renovate them. It has nothing to do with the fact that you just don't make it in the sun and the wind. I think Lotta Olsson can read about trade, solar cells and Gotland cables. And then you can show up for the negotiations if you want something through.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1315	Madam President, I would like I have absolutely nothing against Gotland getting a cable. Rickard Nordin's policy, on the other hand, should mean that Gotland would not need any cable, because you can store the energy you produce yourself. If it were as simple as Rickard Nordin says, Gotland must be an excellent example of how to do this. In fact, Norwegian hydropower will not be enough either. If we're not just going to look in our little cell in Sweden and see it a little bigger, it's actually that we won't be able to use really nice electricity for all that is needed. No one would be happier than me if we could take nuclear power from the sun and use it, but they will not be enough. That's why I get really worried when you don't make the equation go together. In fact, that is how we have to do serious politics. At the same time, we would like to talk with many parties, and there should not be locks.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1318	Madam President, I would like Now I think Lotta Olsson didn't listen to me. The Gotland cable is needed to export, not just to take care of yourself. It is the policy of the Center Party to pursue the issue of the Gotland cable. I welcome the fact that Ulf Kristersson happened to mention it in the election movement. It was welcome given that it had not been so clear before. I would like to see this policy for real on the part of the Moderates, not only when there are election movements – as we have also seen in the Social Democrats. When it comes to the balance of the Nordic electricity system, we also see the balance reports from Swedish grids and their new models that the system will be more stable in the future than in liberalisation. It's not a problem. Lotta Olsson paints some kind of reality picture that means that it will be black. It won't be. Start by reading the balance sheet reports from the Swedish power grid. Then we can discuss. They show a completely different picture of reality from that of Lotta Olsson in this House.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1321	Madam President, I would like I have just heard Mr Nordin say that we did not come to the negotiating table today and that this was the first time we had to negotiate on the issues. As far as I know, it was quite open that we were already putting forward a number of issues in the spring that we wanted to negotiate on. The Christian Democrats see challenges ahead that were not within the framework of the energy agreement that is on the table. Here, some of the other parties, including the Center Party, did not even want to discuss the issues because you thought we had to implement what is on the agenda now. Only after that can we take responsibility for Sweden's energy policy. Here we thought something completely different. We have repeatedly brought these issues forward, finally together with the Liberals, when we saw that we did not get a hearing within the framework of the existing energy agreement. I would like to clarify what a correct history would look like. The offer made by the Christian Democrats did not contain anything to suggest that it is possible to reach a goal, to discuss and update an energy target. The industry also wants to see a new agreement. The energy companies that Rickard Nordin refers to want to see an updated energy agreement. Some have also said that they want to see nuclear power play an important role. Here it is not about that it should only be nuclear power in Sweden. This is about seeing that all types of energy are needed because we will need more electricity in the future. We need to look at these challenges. I would like to hear the honourable Member's comments.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1326	Madam President, I would like Last spring they wanted to set up an investigation in 12 months. That was the great demand at the time, in addition to a number of points that they wanted to get through in substance policy. It hasn't been 12 months. In a first draft that came from the government last Friday, it was said that one might consider starting discussions. KD himself has said that there is time until New Year to come up with something. Then KD chooses not to show up at the first negotiation meeting. Of course, I have sympathy for the fact that the first draft was not considered good enough. I didn't think so either. I had a lot of points of view. I think we should discuss more clearly whether we can regionalise property taxes. That question was not included. I took this with me to the first negotiation meeting and said: I am sorry, you have raised which points you would like to discuss, but I would also like to discuss these points! It is natural to discuss a first draft in a negotiation. The weird thing is that you don't want to show up at all. It goes without saying to me that the first agreement should be finalised before a new agreement is reached. How will the Center Party, or any other party, be able to rely on Moderates and Christian Democrats if you are not prepared to implement everything you have agreed on first before you are going to make up a lot of new things? It's going to be a weird order. There is quite a lot of the Center Party that might be willing to do differently, but we have to start by finishing what we agreed on. If you can't do it before you want to discuss it further, then you have a big credibility problem. We see this in paragraph after paragraph when you choose to drop out of various types of negotiations instead of sitting at the table. We're not even coming to the first meeting until M and KD drop out.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1332	Madam President, I would like This is the honourable Member who claims that we have not discussed it. We have discussed these issues time and again and have not received any response at all. Nordin's talking about credibility. What is credible here is that it also addresses what are relevant challenges, and we have brought these issues up for discussion time and again. We have argued that our authorities should also live up to the Energy Agreement on various scenarios of the future. It has not been wanted to give that mission to the authorities. The agreement has itself been broken when taxes are imposed on cogeneration and waste incineration. How credible is that? There is no indication that the credibility of the government parties and the Center Party is particularly high.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1335	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry, but I'm getting a little drunk laughing. They say that you have not received any response; the government invites you to talk, and you choose not to show up. Then it will be difficult to hear their opinions. In fact, there was an invitation to a conversation. It is remarkable then to choose not to come to the negotiating table. It shows that it was more important to quit than to actually tackle the problems that exist. I share the view of the Christian Democrats that there are a number of problems. These are capacity challenges. There are challenges in terms of flexibility, electricity grids and a variety of other things. But none of them are solved with fourth generation nuclear power or an updated energy target, which the Christian Democrats and the Moderates put forward. I'm happy to discuss the real solutions. But making up things that fit well in public opinion, because it feels good on a election poster, is not serious politics. I think I'm too good to discuss that.
i-96c56dfc9cdfe6cc-1339	Madam President, I would like Sweden's electricity production is an example internationally. Our mix of hydro, nuclear and wind power produces no climate emissions in electricity generation. In almost all countries fossil fuels are used in some form to produce electricity. Sweden's pure electricity generation is the main reason why the Swedish climate footprint is significantly smaller than in other developed countries. Historically, electricity in Sweden has been delivered reliably. Every electricity customer, everywhere, has been able to feel confident that the electricity grid has delivered regardless of when you have needed electricity. The system has also managed to connect new customers. But none of this goes without saying. The challenge for Sweden is how industry, transport and other important sectors will free themselves from the fossil fuels on which they currently depend. Everything suggests that a comprehensive electrification will be an important part of the solution. The projections differ slightly, but the use of electricity in Sweden appears to increase from the current 140 terawatt hours per year to about 200 terawatt hours in 2050. This increase corresponds to an annual production of nuclear power. Politics should be based on what we are trying to achieve. The emissions of climate gases should be removed to 2045 at the same time as we meet other environmental objectives. The system will deliver the energy we need, when we need it and where we need it. We'll be able to rely on the system to work. This is especially true of those dark and cold days when we are most dependent on reliable energy supplies. We Liberals believe that energy policy should be based on needs. The energy system shall be planned so that electricity and other forms of energy are available when needed and where it is needed at the lowest possible cost. Madam President, I would like The secure supply of climate-neutral electricity throughout the country has long been a strong competitive advantage for Sweden, especially since the Swedish electricity has been cheap. The changes we make to our energy supply must be made in such a way that the system becomes cost-effective and minimises costs for customers and taxpayers. Liberals are therefore concerned about the energy policy objectives. The 100% renewable electricity target is not about security of supply, cost efficiency or climate benefits. If those goals were important, the agreement would instead have talked about a fossil-free approach. It is therefore gratifying that the Moderates and Christian Democrats now choose to join the Liberals and thus leave the Energy Agreement. Madam President, I would like The electricity supply problems that Sweden is currently experiencing, mainly because new customers in several parts of the country cannot be connected to the grid for many years, depends on limited capacity in the electricity grids. So far, there's enough electricity. But electricity also needs to be fed into the electricity grid, and already to New Year closes Vattenfall Ringhals 2. A year later, Ringhals 1 is also closed. These two reactors currently produce planned electricity equivalent to 10 per cent of Swedish consumption. Sweden, especially southern Sweden, will thus become even more dependent on electricity being introduced from other areas when we need it. The number of hours per year we need to import dirty electricity from Poland, Germany and Denmark will increase. Weather-dependent electricity generation must always be balanced with regulated production to cover users' demand when production does not meet the demand. As two reactors are now shut down while wind power continues to expand, the proportion of weather-dependent electricity generation in Sweden is increasing sharply. We are therefore dependent on coal and gas power plants in our neighbouring countries being ready to start when we need them. In principle, these power plants could just as well be located in Sweden. Then we would never have been able to call our system a hundred percent renewable. The government lacks an answer to how each electricity customer can feel confident about getting the electricity you need every hour of the year. Instead, it refers to the fact that more electricity is produced in Sweden as a whole over the year than we use. Let me take a small example. If the government had been an ice cream producer, it would have been able to try to explain away the lack of ice cream on Skåne's beaches on a warm summer day in July with that there will be cheap ice cream in Luleå when the snow starts to fall. Liberals believe that we have to decide for ourselves when we want ice cream – or for that matter electricity. Nuclear power has an important function in the power system. When important sectors of society are electrified and demand for electricity increases, the availability of planned electricity generation becomes even more important. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a new plan to switch to fossil-free with enhanced competitiveness and without reducing security of supply. We need a new energy agreement, and it would have been nice if the government had invited wide-ranging talks about it. We would have to do that for Sweden, for industry and, above all, for the climate.
