i-a4ba94530076c58a-1	Mr President, I would like to For time to come, I am in favour of reservations 2 and 4, although we naturally support all the reservations expressed by the Swedish Democrats. Mr President, I would like to National cohesion and symbols are important issues for the Swedish Democrats. A royal letter from 19 April 1562 says that the Swedish flag should be a yellow udi crosssvijs fordeelt på påa båd. Ever since then, the Swedish flag of varying sizes and hue has waved over the kingdom. Today the appearance of the Swedish flag is regulated by law, but the flag days are regulated in a so-called regulation. There are also no regulations governing when the authorities should flag or even which flag should be carried. It happens because authorities flag with flags other than the Swedish one, and sometimes there are also flags representing political or ideological organisations. Mr President, I would like to I think it is very inappropriate for non-official flags to be used in the flagning of public buildings, as this may be perceived as political positions being taken by the authorities. The Swedish Democrats want to tackle this and therefore bring together all the rules for flagging in a single flag law. Mr President, I would like to When it comes to reservation 4 and the national anthem, most people think that they sing Sweden's national anthem when You old, you free are sung at school graduations, in sports contexts and more. But according to the Swedish parliament, they do not because, unlike many people think, Sweden today does not have an official national anthem. You old man, you've never been officially accepted as an anthem by a political decision. There is also no legal protection for You old, you free, but its status as national anthem rests entirely on tradition. I am of the opinion that an anthem is a tribute to one's own country and a uniting symbol, which is why it feels particularly important that it should also be officially adopted. As late as 1982 Sweden officially got a national day, which is now also a holiday. The Swedish flag with yellow cross on blue bottom is official. But today we stand without an officially accepted national anthem, even though an anthem has great symbolic value. Mr President, I would like to It is a strange order when the Riksdag does not say that You old, you free is our national anthem, contrary to the general opinion. If we really want to guard the Old One, you free it will of course also be accepted as our official national anthem.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-8	Mr President, I would like to Public holidays, our Swedish flag, commemorative ceremonies and the establishment of prizes and honorary medals are issues that are often highlighted as individual topics of debate. On the basis of the report that we have to deal with today, they are well worked out and put together. The common denominator that I would like to emphasise when discussing these issues is the importance of a popular foundation in society as a whole. It should feel urgent and be known to everyone, regardless of background or category of society, why a given day, flag or ceremony is carried out. These conditions are well met in the Constitutional Committee's report 18, to which I hereby request approval. I also call for reservations to be rejected. Mr President, I would like to As far as public holidays are concerned, proposals have been made by the Swedish Democrats to remove May 1 as a holiday. If it is any day that deserves attention and has a strong popular base, it is this very day. The first of May is given international attention for the improved conditions of employees and workers. Human dignity is the focus. For a long time it was eight hours' workday, the right to statutory holidays and things that are now considered a matter of course for everyone for whom it was demonstrated. When the National Day was introduced as a holiday in 2005, there were forces that wanted to remove May Day as a weekend. But it was pointed out that May Day, whether you want to demonstrate or do something else, along with the election campaign, has developed into an appreciated and popular weekend. I am convinced that many people today are grateful for the efforts that the collective labour movement has made and is still making for the conditions of ordinary people. May Day is a day to honor and highlight precisely from the popular base. The ideas that have disappeared are an important aspect in this context. As has been said, there is a motion that sets out rules on flagging and wants the general days of the flag to be regulated. The committee has dealt with this issue on previous occasions and has stated that there is no reason for Parliament to raise this issue. Our Swedish flag has gone from being a military symbol to becoming a popularly anchored flag. The law that exists for the Swedish flag is clear and simple and focuses on design and colour. The rules that exist should be seen as part of the Community and, as I see it, perhaps arouse interest in more knowledge and commitment. More blue yellow Swedish flags are welcome to fly at official buildings but also at association arrangements, public gatherings, private affairs, grief, celebrations, parties or when you want to otherwise pay special attention. For my part, I have for many years in my mission the joy of distributing Swedish flags on National Day every year to citizens or associations who have applied for this. County administrative boards play an important role in helping to disseminate knowledge and information about the flag and how it can be used. From the Swedish National Day Foundation, which was formed when the National Day was introduced and where, incidentally, the Speaker is a member of the Board, I get the following fine advice: Flag rather than not, even if you do not know all the rules. Mr President, I would like to The question of legalizing the national anthem You old, you free is addressed in a motion. There have been similar exercises over the years. The rejection of the motion even today is due to the development that led to the Old One's being presented as a national anthem and that it rests on a popular foundation. It is precisely in this way that a national anthem should be added. Therefore, a more official determination of it is not justified. The force has come from below and has been established in all stages. I don't think there's anyone questioning you old, you free as a national anthem today. There have also been some other motions on this matter. It's about civil courage awards, public reward systems, order systems, and so on. There has also been a motion for a commemoration for the victims of Communism. But here we refer to the work of the Living History Forum to promote the work of democracy, tolerance and human rights, starting with the Holocaust and the crimes of communism against humanity. The Living History Forum has knowledge and opportunities to inform about this in a good way. With regard to the motion on Parliament's Medals of Honor, we can refer to the investigation that is taking place regarding the public reward system, initiated by the KU during the previous term of office.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-21	Mr President, I would like to We are discussing public holidays, etc., and there are many things within this report – important symbols of what Sweden is, what we want Sweden to be and what Sweden has been. PerPer-Arne Håkansson basically went through the whole report in a good way in many parts, although I may not really like his feeling for May Day. Even if you flag, I don't think it hurts to learn the rules. We have made further progress on these very issues this year. For the first time we have had a temporary flag day on 17 December 2018. At that time we flagged that it was 100 years since this Parliament took a decision in principle to introduce universal and equal voting rights. It was an important day. We chose to celebrate it in a beautiful and good way, and I am proud that we took this opportunity. Many progress has been made in these areas over the past few years. We have now received an announcement from this Parliament that has led to the veteran's day becoming a general flag day. We have an announcement from this Parliament about the reward systems in the form of orders and other awards. There are a number of different things we do to mark our common national identity and also because we as a nation sometimes have the opportunity to mark positive events and deeds and other things that matter to us as a kingdom. This is basically very good and something we should be proud of. But the work is not done. We can keep looking at things that may need to be developed. In this report, the Moderates have not put forward any proposals on this. That is why we support the report. But we are of course still interested in further improvements that can be made beyond what has already happened. We see positive developments in this area, and we are happy to help in the further work.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-25	Mr President, I would like to Beliefs and funeral issues do not sound so exciting, but there are issues that need to be addressed also within the framework of this report. Two suggestions are from the Moderates. One concerns the size of the church fee. We think it is important that parishes and the church itself have the opportunity to regulate it in more ways than as a percentage of taxable income and to be able to set a roof and a floor, for example, in order for the church itself to have the freedom to make such decisions. It is a strange order that, as a parliament, we have restricted a religious community's ability to make decisions about its own membership fee. The second concerns the membership of the congregation. We Moderates suggest that this too should be up to the church. It is important that the church itself has the opportunity to make a decision on this. It is rarely the case that, as a religion, one has limitations as to the organizational distribution of members. That is why we feel that this is also important. In the light of these considerations, I would like to express my support for reservations 2 and 3.
i-3pyVzdFadUJxSftVJo7J2r	Mr President, I would like to The KU's 19 report deals with motions from the general period of exercise concerning religious communities and funeral issues. I call for the approval of reservation 3, which is that the church itself should be given the opportunity to decide on parishion. We in the Left Party believe that it is reasonable for the Church of Sweden to decide for itself. For us, it is uninteresting how the Church of Sweden chooses to do its church division, because we think it is important that the Association of Swedish Churches independently decide how to choose to do its division. Like all other associations, the Church of Sweden should have full freedom to decide its activities. It is up to its members, not the Riksdag, to decide on the question of parishion.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-29	Mr President, I would like to The representative of the Left Party said that it is uninteresting how the Church of Sweden wants it with its parishion. I don't want to go that far. However, it is not something that we in Parliament should decide on. There are advantages and disadvantages to having a geographically free system, where the members of the Church of Sweden can decide for themselves which parish they want to belong to. Such a system could be detrimental to the economy and responsibility of the local congregation. I would say that this is a very interesting problem, but it is not ours. Over the years, the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and several other parties have been exercising over and over again that we might not interfere with how the Church of Sweden wants it and remove the wet blanket that our sovereignty or jurisdiction has on this issue. In an investigation from 2004, which certainly has a few years on its back, it says: It is clear that it is not possible to introduce this model only by means of changes in the church order. Changes to the regulations of the Act on the Church of Sweden concerning membership of the parish in which you reside are required. This raises questions about the special status of the Swedish Church Act as a fundamental part of the decision on changed relations between the state and the Swedish Church. ..................................................... That's what you usually call a moment 22. If the Church of Sweden wants to change the principle of parishion, you cannot, because you must first consult the Riksdag. If the Riksdag wants to change it, we say, it is up to the Church of Sweden to decide, and therefore we do nothing. And that's how nothing happens. Perhaps that in itself is also a good order. In that case, however, it should be a conscious position that we do not want to interfere in this matter. The issue was last raised in the last parliamentary term. Now this term of office goes without becoming a position. It's a bit of a shame. But, Mr President, this is how the KU works. It'll take some time. But in the end, it'll be fine. We believe that this issue too will eventually be resolved and will not use more muscle or a higher tone than is absolutely necessary for it to eventually become a good order. We therefore expect that, in time, all parties will realise that this is the best order. That is why I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 3.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-36	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Church is an open folk church. And it's all over Sweden. Congregations and pastorates all over the country make important efforts to create meeting places and be available to people in different situations whenever someone needs them in cooperation with municipalities, associations and organisations. The movements that have been submitted to the KU and that the KU has discussed about changing the way the Church of Sweden organizes itself can from many points of view be understandable and well-lawful. But there is also reason to take on board the arguments that are highlighted to bring in the very popular, social and broad anchoring of the Church of Sweden. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations. It is true, as has been said here, that since 2000 the Church of Sweden is no longer a state church but a free religion. It was a change that meant that the state, i.e. the parliament and government, would no longer govern the inner life and work of the church. As a result of the change in relationship, the Act on the Church of Sweden was introduced. That law was necessary to bring about the change as such. That is where we are today. The Church of Sweden, as I understand it, is a well-functioning, open and democratic organisation that builds on representative democracy. The church order states that the Swedish Church is an Evangelical Lutheran church that has great freedom to design its organization based on what is considered most appropriate in every time. With reference to the generally good work being done and the cooperation that is taking place, not least at local level, between the Church of Sweden and Swedish society, I see reason to stress the importance of the order that is now in place to maintain this. This is also the direction that a broad attendance at the council, bishops and other church representatives have supported. Last week I visited Tomelilla pastorate in Skåne. I sat down and talked with the vicar and the deacon and was able to share in the work and activity being done. It's a lively business. Above all, the deaconal work has become more and more the focus. There is a great need for cooperation and collaboration with various bodies in society where the Church of Sweden is a resource. We see this in the big cities, with the city missions, but we also see it in smaller parishes in different parts of Sweden. It is important, together with children's activities, culture, music and community, to highlight. The motions have also suggested that we should reflect on the state's relationship with the Swedish Church, given that the church elections at national level bring together a few participants and that the council from that point of view is therefore not representative. I'd like to turn it around. In the last church elections, we saw a clear trend break. From the fact that perhaps just over 10 per cent of those entitled to vote went to the ballot boxes, around 20 per cent met up. These are not at all bad figures, given the nature of participation in other organisations and associations in society. Based on this, the decisions taken in the Council have strong legitimacy and good foundation. Only last November, the council decided by more than three-quarters of a majority to reject the introduction of the so-called free parishion. The question of optional membership of the assembly has previously been addressed in 2001, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2014. It is the highest decision-making body of the Church of Sweden that has come to the same conclusion on these occasions. It is therefore the Swedish Church that should decide for itself how to organize itself. In this case, the principle of territoriality, which is highlighted, is important for membership of the congregation and for developing the activities of the congregations. We can draw parallels to the municipalities. It might be strange to live in Helsingborg, for example, but pay municipal tax in Danderyd. The geographical boundary is a fundamental part of the tradition and understanding of the Church of Sweden. And there is a risk that many of the small congregations, where the income of those paying the church fee is not always high, would find it more difficult to finance their activities. As a result, rich and prosperous congregations may develop but less lag behind. It would create a Church Sweden and a society that doesn't stick together. We should also bear in mind that the Church of Sweden is the head of funerals regardless of belief. Of course, there are differences of opinion on this. In this context, however, I would like to highlight the knowledge and experience of church staff throughout the country in dealing with people in different situations, regardless of their beliefs, and with respect for differences and religious affiliation as such. There is of course every reason to review the best possible organization for the Church of Sweden. An investigation is underway. It's welcome. But I would like to emphasise the strong social and popular anchoring and importance of the open public church.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-48	Mr President, I would like to The motion report on religions and funeral issues contains a reservation that raises the question of the members' parishion within the Church of Sweden. The question of who – the state or the Church of Sweden – should decide on matters of parishion has been debated many times over the years. We've heard this before. It has been debated in this Chamber, and it has been debated in the highest decision-making body of the Church of Sweden, the Council. In connection with the change in relations between the state and the Swedish Church in 2000, the Act on the Church of Sweden was introduced, which regulates the identity and organisation of the church. The law states the so-called territorial principle, that the parish is the local unit of the Church of Sweden and covers the people who belong to the Church of Sweden and who reside within the area of the parish. The principle of territoriality has become a crucial organisational principle in the Church of Sweden. It is closely linked to the identity of the church as an open and nationwide folk church, which is also explicitly stated by the law. But the principle of territoriality is also a fundamental part of the church's tradition and self-understanding. There are those who want to abolish this law, and one of the reservations in the report advocates that very thing. For the Center Party, it is important that the agreement that was reached between the Church of Sweden and the state in connection with the change of relationship is maintained. The Act on the Church of Sweden was introduced as part of this agreement. As long as the Act on the Church of Sweden applies, the question of parishion will therefore be a matter for both the Church of Sweden and the Riksdag. The Church of Sweden has not chosen to raise the question of the need for a change or review of relations between the State and the Church of Sweden, despite repeated and recurrent discussions and votes in the relevant bodies of the Church. I therefore believe that we in Parliament should show the Swedish Church the same respect and honour and cherish the agreement entered into. Mr President, I would like to I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-55	Mr President, I would like to The question of how the state should exist and act as a market participant should be dealt with after two critical premises. Firstly, is it reasonable for the State, by virtue of being a state, to interfere in well-functioning markets through its own ownership of certain companies? Secondly, is it reasonable for common resources to be used speculatively instead of being used, for example, as protective ramparts against future economic recessions by, for example, amortising public debt? In our view, to be able to answer yes to these two questions, or premises, it requires more weighty reasons than just a general desire to use common resources speculatively with the hope of making a profit. What, then, are heavier weighty reasons? It is, for example, that part of the fulfilment of the state's social contract to citizens needs to take place in company form and through activities that are best suited to be conducted precisely in company form. It could be the fulfilment of specific social missions. This may, for example, involve the holding of system-critical infrastructure, which for organisational reasons is deemed to be best carried out within the framework of a company. It may also involve other ownership that is of more strategic importance. However, it must also be noted that risk-taking is the very basis for operating in a private market. When the State participates in a market, the State takes a risk, and that risk takes the State by common means. Let us be honest in this House and note that both red and blue governments have owned state companies that have done bad business. It is part of the consequences of being in a competitive market. Without risk-taking, there is no possibility of making a profit. As late as 2015, the Swedish National Audit Office criticised the government at the time for a too large and unnecessary risk-taking in the government's corporate portfolio. This, in our view, must be contrasted with the fact that these funds – these common resources – could have been useful elsewhere, namely by amortising our public debt. The value of the Swedish company portfolio today amounts to approximately SEK 570 billion. Some of this activity, as I mentioned at the outset, should remain in state ownership and should continue to be managed by the State. But some of the activities today have no other reason for existence than that the state hopes that this will be a cash cow for the foreseeable future, and history shows us that this is not always the case. That is why I believe, Mr President, that it is a wiser management of common resources to use them to build common defence walls for the whole economy. In this connection, I would like to call for approval of the common bourgeois reservation that exists and of the reservation that the Moderates have on the management of state companies.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-66	Mr President, I would like to With Vattenfall, which is a state-owned company, there are good opportunities for the owner to achieve energy policy goals. The company plays an important role in the Swedish energy supply. Our goal here is to maintain its position in order to develop the country's energy system, which should, as far as possible, be characterised by independence from fossil energy, and that Sweden avoids making itself dependent on imported electricity in the long term. Our view is, and has previously been, that the company should shift its focus from expansion abroad to protecting the Swedish electricity supply from a long-term perspective. The company has historically suffered considerable financial losses in connection with the adventures it has been on abroad. Major write-offs and write-offs have characterised the debate for a long time, and it is only in the last two years that profits have been recognised in the company. In spite of this, we are investing fully abroad, which we continue to be critical of. Instead, the domestic market should be given greater priority. An extraordinary general meeting has also decided on new financial targets for the company. The company's return requirements have been reduced, as large investments in the sun and wind are no longer as profitable. At the same time as reducing yield requirements, one of the company's capital structure targets was removed, which regulates the net debt-to-income ratio. The debt can now run away. There is an obvious risk of a much worse solidity situation here, and there is every reason to follow developments in how the abolition of this target affects the company's debt. Mr President, I would like to In the next two years, Vattenfall will close two nuclear reactors at Ringhals. It should be mentioned that the company's decisions are economically rational on the basis of its objectives, since it is more profitable to build new electricity generation that receives support through politically decided subsidies, which is what makes this possible, than to invest in non-subsidised power generation. We believe, however, that the decision in the short term is a threat to the security of supply in the power system, as the reactors represent a significant part of the Swedish power supply. As early as this winter, the Swedish Companies Agency calculated in its power balance reports that Sweden would not be able to cope with its power supply on its own, but would be dependent on imports from other countries. An early phase-out of Ringhals 1 and 2, as this is the case, will further complicate the impact situation in the future. We therefore wanted in committee that issues relating to Vattenfall in this report should be dealt with under one specific item, partly in view of the size of the company, but also linked to the power and capacity deficit that Sweden is now moving into. The early decommissioning of reactors should be highlighted more and made more visible in the report. However, the Swedish Democrats were the only ones to do this. All the other parties voted down the proposal to deal with Vattenfall under a separate item and instead chose to combine this with a number of other mixed issues. The other questions go all the way to dealing with eels in Göta Canal, for example. It is as if this were a matter of the same importance, which we do not mean. Mr President, I would like to We therefore think that there is every reason to consider whether the state should use its own energy company to reduce the Swedish supply security in the short term, which risks destroying the conditions for the energy-intensive industry to operate in Sweden. This is something that can lead to much greater socio-economic consequences than a more limited additional cost for the continued operation of the reactors. We propose in the report that the state, through its ownership in Vattenfall, should look more at the country's energy supply than at the economic objectives of the company. Our entry is therefore that the government should act by giving Vattenfall a ownership directive to stop the early decommissioning of the Ringhals nuclear reactors. With this, Mr President, I would like to support reservation 8 in the report. We are, of course, in favour of our other reservations, but for time to come, we are content to ask for approval.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-79	Mr President, I would like to 47 companies, a value of approximately SEK 570 billion, 135 000 jobs – three figures for the state-owned companies. The start of most has been business within government or state monopolies. Today, most of the companies operate on a commercial basis on fully competitive markets. Barely half of the state-owned companies have so-called specifically decided community assignments. The social assignments are not aimed at financial returns, but at achieving other objectives decided by the Riksdag. The state-owned companies are businesses that have grown over time and based on different needs. These are constantly evolving activities. Business and economic goals can be in conflict with the social mandates we impose on the companies. Depending on which party you ask, there are completely different tasks that we believe should be the responsibility of certain state-owned companies. There is also a political dividing line if it is to be a community task linked to the company in order for there to be reasons for the state to own the company. It is a social mission that is also relevant today, not only when it started. That is the dividing line that can be seen in our joint reservation 1, which we have together with M, KD and L and which I propose to approve. Both the conflict of objectives between the economic and social objectives requires a clearer definition of mission objectives for each state-owned company. The government's governance of the companies must further develop towards greater clarity, transparency and professionalisation, not only in terms of the economic objectives but also the mission objectives. The Swedish National Audit Office has seen that there are shortcomings in both governance and in the follow-up and reporting of community assignments, not least in terms of target conflicts and funding of community assignments. Over time, the management organisation has built up a professional organisation for the economic governance of the companies. However, the follow-up of the companies' social assignments needs to be further developed with regard to analyses of the companies. The governance of companies with community assignments requires competence in the administration to clarify the companies' tasks, how social assignments are to be financed and the management of possible conflicts of interests. Work on the companies' mission goals is too slow. The positive effects achieved in the companies where the social mission has been assigned mission objectives give cause to speed up work on developing it in the other companies as soon as possible. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party believes that the role of the state should normally be to set out the framework and rules that should apply to business and businesses, not to own and operate companies. We would therefore like to stress that the state should reduce or phase out its corporate ownership if such changes lead to better functioning markets and more efficient public services. In our opinion, the government should therefore act to dismantle state ownership of companies that do not have a specific social mission that is difficult to manage otherwise or that is important from a strategic and security policy point of view. There are several examples that we highlight in our reservation: SBAB, Telia Company AB and SAS AB. We note that in the autumn of 2016, the State initiated a sales process with regard to the holding in SAS and has reduced its ownership in the company. We welcome that. One of the state's companies, SBAB, is located in a market that has changed since the company started. Financial companies in general and banks in particular are heavily regulated, an effect of, among other things, the 2008 financial crisis. The fact that the state acts both as a bank and as a regulator of the same makes you sit on double chairs. An important reason why SBAB was created was that the government would push down interest rates. But those days are over. It is other actors who have taken over that role. Today it is innovative entrepreneurs who run the big banks ahead of them, including SBAB. Another reason why SBAB is not fulfilling its mission is the company's focus on the big cities. The responsibility of the state must always be to look after the whole country, but SBAB has gone the other way. It has clearly been declared that it is concentrating its activities on the big cities. That is not where the lack of capital is at its greatest. What are we going to do with a government bank if it doesn't exist in the whole country and when there are plenty of commercial banks doing the same thing? Inland innovation was formed to make venture capital available in northern Sweden, Värmland and Dalarna, and Fouriertransform was targeted at the manufacturing industry during the 2009 crisis. The previous government criticised the results and instead chose to incorporate these two into a new company, Saminvest. When you shut down operations with high tail movements and loud criticism, it requires results when you make new ones. The question is: is Saminvest reaching out to those areas where venture capital is difficult to access? And do you reach the industries that most need it, or do you reach where private capital supply still reaches? Mr President, I would like to In one area, state-owned companies are distinguished by their owners as the forerunner of private business. Of the elected board members of state-owned companies, 49 per cent are women and 51 per cent are men. The figures are taken from 1 May 2018. On the boards of listed companies, the figures are 34% women and 66% men. The proportion of women who are Chairman of the Board increased to 48 percent in 2018, which I think is very good. A short summary: Speed up the process of formulating mission goals, selling parts of or entire companies that do not have a specific community mission, and that are not strategic or security policy important, and continue the good work done for the good of the country in many of the companies owned by us!
i-a4ba94530076c58a-95	Mr President, I would like to Now 4 is the report, and state enterprises are the subject of debate today. First of all, I would like to make it clear to you my colleagues and the Parliament that I am opposed to either maintaining or selling, for ideological reasons, holdings of state enterprises or government property. I can start here with what I always mention when the opportunity is given, namely the sales program that Sveaskog has as a community assignment. The Parliament was given a proposal to adopt a position on the year 2001, where it was stated that 5-10 per cent of the land would be sold for the benefit of individual agriculture and forestry. The idea was to strengthen the opportunities for rural people to stay and work in rural areas. The idea was good if the intention was really to try to facilitate rural development. The Parliament bought the argument and the proposal was okay. But what happens to the development of rural areas? Will there be more active agricultural and forestry workers? The Swedish National Audit Office made an attempt in 2010 to evaluate. I quote from their evaluation: in 2001 Sveaskog was commissioned to sell land to individuals in sparsely populated areas. Until 2010, the company has defined sparsely populated people narrowly and considered that sales should only apply to persons who live or have forest property in the municipality where the land is sold. The new interpretation of sparsely populated areas that applies from 2010 is further and gives all residents in a given county the opportunity to buy forest within the county. The Parliament's objective is that land sales should contribute to supporting individuals in sparsely populated areas. The sale of land to individuals may have been hampered by Sveaskog's narrow interpretation of rural inhabitants. The changes made by the company from 2010 onwards are likely to increase the opportunities for individuals to acquire land. ..................................................... Well, what does their evaluation say? Well, at first they did not care about the idea, which they sold in this with, to strengthen the individual agriculture and forestry in sparsely populated areas. Then the space that actually existed was not used to make more people in rural areas – the conclusion landed in 10% – so that 10% is sold regardless of who buys and for what purposes. What is written about the fact that it was extended to that residents in the county can buy is not true. Today, Sveaskog places land for sale on offer, and then the forest parcels can be up to 1 000 hectares. In my municipality of residence, properties of 500 hectares have been sold on offer, and the buyers are definitely not resident in the county. Apparently, there are examples where they do not even live in the country. Do you think that rural people who would like to strengthen the opportunities for active agriculture and forestry can match these money-rich buyers who invest money in such large properties? I argue that the sales programme has been continued for ideological reasons, not for reasons which in any way live up to the argument adopted by Parliament in its proposal in 2001. I am further developing the thoughts of the Left Party and my thoughts in the special opinion that can be read in the report. Mr President, I would like to While I am talking about forests, it is appropriate for me to support our reservation, No 7 in the report. It is about what would be good for the state as a forest owner, which would be to collect all the forest holdings in a company and then preferably Sveaskog who has competence and is active in almost the whole country. With regard to the eternal discussion on protection and farming, I sincerely hope that the forestry industry can at some point come to an agreement with the scientific community and liker when there is a balance in production and the environment. That sustainable forestry should be obvious to everyone who owns forests, I see as something that should also be the subject of a handshake and a consensus. Mr President, I would like to It would take a whole day to develop all the thoughts that I and the Left Party have about active ownership and how the state could use its ownership more socially. I cannot help but think about the unfair differences between urban and rural areas and how an active regional policy with social missions on some state enterprises could make a difference – without disturbing the market for that matter. Mr President, I would like to SJ AB should involve more people in this House. SJ's return requirements lead to a strong focus on creating profit, which means that passengers' needs are prioritised down. The demand for return also disadvantages regional development as SJ is forced to prioritise down and remove low-traffic routes. Here, the Left Party has two reservations, one of which is conditional on the fact that we want to set a date when the yield requirement should be adjusted downwards so that social benefits are given priority over economic returns. We are, of course, in favour of these reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of the one I mentioned earlier. I will again quote a little from the committee majority's description of the requirement for returns. The committee has pointed out that an important starting point when setting the economic objectives of state-owned companies is the owner's cost of equity. It is this cost that ultimately determines whether the State as owner receives a reasonable and marketable compensation for the risk assumed by ownership of a company. ..................................................... As far as compensation for risk-taking is concerned, I would strongly argue that the risk is more to do nothing to get trains to go on time, to get more people to choose trains and to restore train reliability. Not to see SJ as an operator that will operate even those routes that today do not generate profits and also there develop the train traffic to get traffic across the country, that is risk-taking. Mr President, I would like to I shall conclude my speech by saying what I said at the beginning. State ownership should not be retained or sold for ideological reasons. However, as far as the sales made during the time of the alliance government are concerned, I can see that whether they were health establishments that were sold out or parts of companies that were sold out, it was not assessed what society gained from the business. With the proceeds generated by the divestments, the public debt was paid off. Good. Soon thereafter, however, new loans were made without changing politics, and the wealthy were able to continue to renovate their luxury villas with government borrowed money. This risk-taking and evaluation, as well as the social benefits of ownership or disposal, should, in my opinion and the Left Party, have a completely new meaning.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-115	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for approval of the joint reservation we have with M, C and L, No 1. We Christian Democrats think it is important to review public activities and how they are justified over time. The Swedish state currently owns 47 companies, and especially we MPs need to consider whether all these activities are suitable for the state to own. The task of the State should be to define the framework and rules applicable to business and businesses. The task should not be to own and operate companies. Our starting point is therefore that the state should reduce or phase out its corporate ownership, especially when such changes lead to better functioning markets or a more efficient public service. In our opinion, the government should therefore act to dismantle the state ownership of companies that do not have a specific social mission that is difficult to manage otherwise or that is important from a strategic and security policy point of view. This applies, for example, to companies such as SBAB, Telia Company AB and SAS AB. However, we would like to emphasise that all sales of government property should be carried out in a commercial manner and at the best possible price for taxpayers. We note that, in the autumn of 2016, the State initiated a sales process of the holding in SAS and that the State has reduced its ownership in the company, which we welcome. However, there are state-owned companies that need to be in state ownership. LKAB and Apoteket AB should, like the retail monopoly for alcohol via Systembolaget, be protected and kept in state ownership. Mr President, I would like to Although Swedish legislation prohibits state-owned companies from distorting competition and exploiting their position, in recent years we have been able to see a trend with a widening of activities that risk taking market shares at the expense of private operators. Among other things, I think of Telia. A public ownership in a company such as this means that the state sits on double chairs by being both judge and player in the business community. Therefore, companies in a competitive market should be privately operated – as long as there are no social interests to be protected. With such a principle, however, it is important to analyse the consequences from several perspectives. One is the security policy, where the infrastructure contained in these companies can be used to influence other countries. We also have SBAB, which lowers interest rates and has a rather aggressive strategy to take market shares from the private. Mr President, I would like to As I describe, some state-owned companies are at risk of breaching competition law while increasing the state's influence on commercial markets. This development is at odds with the Christian Democrats' view of state ownership. In recent years, public authorities have also taken major steps in the open market by participating in procurements of goods and services. Here, I would like to draw the attention of all party colleagues in municipalities and regions who think they are doing fantastically good activities, to the fact that they can thereby knock the bones of existing private operators operating in exactly the same area. It may be interesting to have a transparent review of the activities of state-owned companies in the form of internal business development extending outwards and in competition with other actors. We also believe that all authorities should review which activities compete with private companies. Before I finish, I would like to clarify my position on the mission and objectives of the state-owned company Vattenfall. I would like to emphasise that, according to its mandate, the company should conduct energy activities in a commercial manner. It is no secret that, in the context of this, we Christian Democrats have called on Vattenfall over the past year to review the decision and rethink the early closure of the Ringhals 1 and 2 nuclear reactors. The early closure of the reactors is not a political decision. In 2016, a broad energy agreement was concluded between five parliamentary parties. The objectives of energy policy were then established when the Parliament adopted the bill on the orientation of energy policy. This agreement means that electricity generation in 2040 should be 100% renewable while nuclear power should be able to remain in place. The year 2040 should therefore not be seen as a deadline for nuclear power, nor should nuclear power plants be closed with political decisions. I will come back later in the spring and further develop my view of nuclear policy when the committee deals with energy policy issues in a specific report. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude with the same words that my party colleague who sat in committee before me, Penilla Gunther, often used to emphasise this: not everything should be owned by the state, but what is owned by the state should not, in any case, compete with private activities.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-130	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats have approached the energy policy of the Swedish Democrats, which is gratifying. It is possible to see a clear consensus on issues relating to nuclear power, nuclear research, security of supply objectives and perhaps also the perception of power and capacity shortages. There we have previously been at the forefront, but now more parties have started to join the same vision. Camilla Brodin recently wrote an article on the subject of nuclear reactors in Ringhals. Once again, the Christian Democrats felt that there was a need to look seriously at the possibility of the reactors being further driven. They went so far as to claim that doing so is also a business matter. This line has been driven by both Camilla and her party leader for a long time. However, while we are dealing in this report with a clear ownership directive for Vattenfall to run the Ringhals 1 and 2 reactors further, the Christian Democrats are actively voting against it. My thinking concerns why the Christian Democrats and Camilla Brodin want to give this invitation to Vattenfall from all over the world except from the Swedish parliament.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-133	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson! I thought the question would come up on the table because we have been clear here. It is not only the Swedish Democrats who have been clear about energy policy. The Christian Democrats were in 2016 and concluded a broad energy agreement. This agreement was chosen by the Liberals because of the nuclear issue. So it is not only the Swedish Democrats who have pushed the nuclear issue. When we finally landed in the decision, it suggested that we should have 100% renewable but also retain nuclear power. We need to keep it because otherwise we will not be able to reach the climate targets in the long term. The Christian Democrats have landed in not dealing with this in this particular report, but will come back later this spring with our energy policy. This was also mentioned in our special opinion.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-137	Mr President, I would like to It still sounds like one is prepared to make this call in all contexts other than in the Swedish Parliament. This is a bit odd, especially when we deal with state companies in a report. This is also the only thing that will be dealt with during the Parliamentary Session. I can agree, in substance, with what Camilla Brodin mentioned in her speech that the closure of the reactors is not a political decision. However, one must be able to see and not forget that the energy market's nature with subsidies and tax incentives is the result of partial political decisions. The Christian Democrats, for example, have supported the wording contained in the treatment of this motion by the majority of committees. The new economic objectives decided at an extraordinary general meeting allow for increased investment in renewable technologies. Indirectly, therefore, the company is governed by the financial objectives it has set itself. I think it will be strange if we do not see the problem of indirect political control of the decision. This of course affects what the company chooses to invest in in order to achieve commercialism. At the same time, in the short term, the socio-economic impact may well be much greater than the small additional cost of investing in these reactors to drive them further. The question remains. Why do the Christian Democrats consistently refuse to make such a request from the Swedish Parliament?
i-a4ba94530076c58a-142	Mr President, I would like to As I have said before, we are not in favour of owning and having so many companies under government control. We think that the entire energy market really needs to be managed on a commercial and market basis. We have the idea that this must be done in its own way and that we should not have to interfere in politics. We politicians should ensure that there are conditions for running energy in a good way in the future. The Christian Democrats have therefore landed in this position. We will come back with our energy policy in the spring.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-144	Mr President, I would like to Camilla Brodin of the Christian Democrats! It is no secret that I come from the least sparsely populated country in Sweden. I've seen how the market works in these places. I would like to ask Camilla Brodin if she sees any sale or disposal that was made during their time in government that she is proud of. Did someone who has made it better to be in the countryside? Does she see anything for the future that would be better for rural areas if privatisations were carried out and the market could do its part? I would like to hear a little about her visions of what can work in rural areas.
i-FkYzViJyjoJpqgXG7ZbgMF	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Birger Lahti. As a new Member in this area, I am not very familiar with this subject. I suppose you have to say that when you stand in this Chamber. We politicians are not always completely perfect. What we in the alliance government did with the divestments that took place at the time, I cannot answer exactly. I promise, however, that I can come back to you, Birger Lahti, when I have gained a broader knowledge of all the issues dealt with by the Committee on Economic Affairs.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-148	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Camilla Brodin what she thinks about the divestments made under the alliance government. At least they raised over 160 billion, I think, to the Treasury. As I was in my speech, the public debt was paid off. Camilla Brodin himself said that you should dispose with the best possible price and based on what is best for the taxpayer. Does she think it was good when you paid off on the public debt but soon after, when there was a recession, took out loans and got new debts of about the same amount? It continued with the same policy. Was this the best thing for taxpayers in the country? They continued with ROT deductions, and the most wealthy Swedes could continue to renovate their houses. This was great for the most wealthy Swedes. But does Camilla Brodin think that the divestments were something that was good for taxpayers in Sweden?
i-a4ba94530076c58a-151	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Birger, for the opportunity to speak on these issues! This is incredibly interesting. In my speech, I talked quite a lot about the fact that perhaps we should not own so much at all. The parliament and the government must ensure that there are laws and rules on how to conduct business. The primary task of the State is not to own and operate companies. Birger Lahti says that this means that people can renovate their houses and so on. I think he is on something that is far from the subject and is not essential in terms of whether the state should own or operate a company. We disagree on this. Now we have a government which, for example, is proposing to abolish the military tax, which you support even if you may not want it. This could enable more people to renovate their houses, as Birger Lahti points out.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-155	Mr President, I would like to Liberals have always been clear: the state should only operate companies in exceptional circumstances. Public monopolies should be dismantled as far as possible. In a well-functioning market economy, the state makes laws, makes decisions on taxes and carries out government duties. If, at the same time, the State competes with private companies on the market, the roles are mixed together. The state monopoly will be dismantled, and state ownership in companies will continue to decrease if such changes lead to better functioning markets or more efficient public services. In our opinion, the government should therefore act to dismantle the state ownership of companies that do not have a specific social mission that is difficult to manage otherwise or is important from a strategic and security policy point of view. This may include companies such as SBAB, Telia Company AB or SAS AB. It is unfortunate that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party are hugging state-owned companies in such a way as to create unsound competition. The state has also received criticism in the past that the ownership assignment is unclear and unclear. Maybe it's not that strange. Mr President, I would like to It would be strange, lacking credibility and even remarkable if Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg, within the framework of his company, were to make laws, if Spotifys Daniel Ek, within the framework of his company, were to decide on taxes or, for that matter, if Isabella Löwengrip, within the framework of his company, were to deal with the exercise of authority. Just as strange and even remarkable is that the state should run a company. The state is adept at making laws, deciding on taxes and, for that matter, engaging in the exercise of authority. Just like the entrepreneurs Mark Zuckerberg, Daniel Ek and Isabella Löwengrip, you should realize what you are good at and focus on just that. If you are to be credible in your main mission, you simply have to give priority. This is precisely what skilled, clear and understandable leaders do. Have all the affairs of the state, whether under an alliance government or a social democratic government, been defensible the times chosen to sell? No, not from every perspective. There the state can be much better. But from a number of perspectives, we citizens are winners. This is, for example, a question of more healthy competition and, above all, that the state can give even more priority to its main tasks. Mr President, I would like to As I said at the outset, the Liberals have always made it clear that the state should operate companies only in exceptional circumstances. The state monopoly will be dismantled, and state ownership in companies will continue to decrease if such changes lead to better functioning markets or more efficient public services. I request the approval of reservation 1, which we have in common with M, C and KD.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-162	Mr President, I would like to I have a simple question for Arman and the Liberals. Why does it not want the government to take responsibility for pushing Ringhals 1 and 2 further over their technical lifetime?
i-a4ba94530076c58a-163	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for the question. We have chosen not to deal with this in this section. Instead, we will highlight this issue in other parts. I believe that the administration of Vattenfall is taking market decisions and that these decisions are also being taken.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-165	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, it is in this report that we are dealing with state enterprises. Throughout the Parliamentary Session, this is the only report that contains the issue of Vattenfall. I think there is a problematic approach in this entrance. Absolutely – there is a business spirit behind the decision. In itself, the shutdown is not a political decision. But the problem is that there is a patchwork of various subsidies, tax breaks and support schemes in the energy market. Political governance is high, and there is indirect political governance that has led to this decision. Similarly, the Liberals in the report agree with the wording that further steps have been taken to steer Vattenfall through the new economic targets, which have been adopted and which will allow for increased investment in renewables. That is what the Liberals have supported – increasing the governance towards investing not in nuclear energy but in renewable energy. There is scope for other governance and other priorities. Sweden is entering a situation of lack of power. We can try to ensure that we do not push Sweden into an unnecessarily critical situation and increase this development even further. Instead, we can ensure that these reactors are at least maintained during their technical lifetime, which may be a departure from commercialism, even if, for example, the Christian Democrats claim it to be commercial. Do not the Liberals and others see any problem with indirect political governance? Do you not think that this will be problematic in terms of the decisions that need to be made and what they mean for Ringhals 1 and 2?
i-a4ba94530076c58a-170	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I do not think we need to highlight energy policy in this report. As the honourable Member says, nuclear power should be developed. But I am absolutely convinced that in this case Vattenfall has taken decisions on market grounds. We should respect that. Politics shouldn't be in there rooting. Then, of course, we are against subsidies that distort competition in the market. This is particularly true of the energy market. There's a lot to do there. However, in the case of Vattenfall, I think that the issue should be highlighted in other reports and not here.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-171	Mr President, I would like to I have questions for Mr Teimouri from the Liberals. He says in his speech that the state should only own companies in exceptional cases. He praises the single market and thinks it works great. Tell me, Arman: Do you think it would work better if, for example, we didn't have state pharmacies in the countryside and if we didn't have government car testing in addition to the one on the private market? How do you think it would be if we privatised all this? Do you think it would be better service? You think you'd open new pharmacies? Were there any more pharmacies when you opened for alternative pharmacies? Did you check where the new pharmacies came from? What does the market say about this? Does it work well throughout the country? Which companies see the Liberals as exceptional? I'd love to hear that.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-174	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Lahti for the questions. As I said in my speech, state ownership in companies will continue to decrease if such changes lead to better functioning markets and more efficient public services. I don't think the state is a good business owner. The state should do what it is good at: make laws, decide on taxes and engage in the exercise of authority. I am quite convinced that the market is so good that it will ensure that there is a development, that there will be more companies and that pharmacies will be built. Then there are some parts where it has not been good. We need to be much better there before we sell out companies.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-176	Mr President, I would like to Does Arman Teimouri then think that those who need medicines in rural areas should rely on a market? Isn't this a public service that everyone who lives in this country should have access to? Is it a market that should ensure that we can collect medicines in a reasonable time and at reasonable distances? I think I hear in your speech that one should only look at how to dispose of state-owned companies, Arman Teimouri. I agree that the state is not the best at owning all the companies. But there are almost 50 companies that we own in whole or in part. I would argue that many of them would otherwise not be in charge of this public service. I took the example of SJ AB. What routes have private operators entered since the opportunity has been given to others to operate on routes? Do you think they took the low-traffic routes in the sparsely populated areas where money was not collected? The service is important. What is your answer to those who cannot travel by train and those companies that no longer have a connection? You say you can't compete with companies on the market. Thank you, I know. No one wants to go where there's not much money to serve. That is the answer to those who do not have any more service. It divested and gave the opportunity to a few more. Then SJ must try to balance its costs, as it has market requirements to try to make money. This cannot be done on the low-traffic routes.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-180	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Mr Lahti. It's just like I said. I want to be extra clear with you. I think that the state monopoly should be dismantled and state ownership in companies should continue to decrease if such changes lead to better functioning markets or more efficient public services. Take Apoteket AB as an example. I think Apoteket AB should exist. But I also think today's pharmacy is very good at what they do. You can order the same day and have your package during the afternoon even if you live in the countryside. It is a development of entrepreneurship. The state wouldn't come up with those ideas. As I said earlier, I think that the state should put energy into what it is good at: making laws, exercising authority and deciding on taxes. Ownership of companies should not be the responsibility of the State.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-184	Mr President, I would like to The state-owned companies form a significant part of the Swedish business community and Swedish competitiveness. The state-owned companies are in many ways crucial to our society. This means a great responsibility for the Riksdag that ultimately sets out the framework, for the government that is responsible for governance and for boards and management that have a strategic and operational responsibility. The starting point must therefore always be that the activities should be conducted in the common interest. We Social Democrats believe that state-owned companies should be managed actively and professionally, and they do. The specific social mandates of certain companies reinforce the requirements to provide a clear social benefit in certain sectors. The government portfolio comprises 47 companies with more than 135 000 employees with a total turnover of more than 300 billion. They have an estimated value approaching 600 billion. The importance of state-owned companies for overall competitiveness should be emphasised in this context. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that our jointly-owned companies should be at the forefront of sustainable entrepreneurship, such as innovation, gender equality and responsibility. The report before the House today contains the Government's letter of 2018 on state-owned companies. The report also deals with 42 motion requests for state enterprises from the general period of exercise. I support the committee's proposal to add the letter to the file and also reject all motions. The portfolio consists of 47 wholly owned and partly owned companies. We should remember that the majority of them operate on a commercial basis and operate in fully competitive markets. Some of them have, as I said, specifically decided community missions, but most of them do not. Our state-owned companies perform important tasks throughout our society regardless of whether they have specifically decided mandates or not. I would like to point out that the state companies must and must operate throughout our country. The importance of this should not be underestimated. One example is Almi Invest, which through its eight regional offices invests in our entire elongated country and is present in almost all municipalities in Sweden. This is extremely important, because the private capital supply does not function optimally everywhere outside the metropolitan regions. At the same time, there are challenges, which have also been mentioned in this House. SBAB is an important player in the mortgage market. But it is worrying that it does not, like other private companies, have lending throughout the country. It is also a problem that Postnord's service does not reach out in a reasonable way to parts of Norrland. In short, state-owned companies must be present throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to The state-owned companies are working to be at the forefront of sustainable entrepreneurship – socially, economically and ecologically. It is also clear that Agenda 2030 and global sustainability goals are important targets for all state-owned companies, as can be seen, for example, when looking at government ownership policy. One example of this is LKAB, Sweden's oldest state-owned company, which has a very forward-looking approach. Together with other actors and with government money, which was actually threatened by the M-KD-SD budget, LKAB and Vattenfall are trying to develop completely carbon-free steel production within the framework of the Hybrid project and test bed operations. It is just an example of an important question for the future. Another example is Almi Invest, which now has a pure Green Tech fund. It strengthens Swedish investments in environmental technology and makes us as a country stronger. Furthermore, we can see that more state-owned companies issue green bonds. It is good and accentuates the green profile of state-owned companies. Mr President, I would like to Gender equality is a given for a feminist party like the Social Democrats. Therefore, it is also gratifying to see good results in the state companies regarding equal representation in leading roles. The government has from day one worked on a balanced gender balance in the state companies. Among other things, the government's ownership policy from 2017 is very clear on the issue of gender balance. The proportion of women chairmen is currently 49%, compared to the average of 9% of stock exchange companies. The proportion of female CEOs is 36 per cent, compared to the 8 per cent of listed companies. The statistics also show that state-owned companies take this seriously. When it comes to recruitment to management teams, they have also become more equal. At the same time, we should remember, Mr President, that it is no sacrifice to work towards balanced gender balance. Instead, research shows that groups and companies made up of people with a variety of experiences are more successful and profitable. Genderly balanced boards are simply a win-win. It is also the case that state-owned companies can act as a tool for influencing standards in industry as a whole. It should not be underestimated. State-owned companies should be an example in gender equality work. In short, the state should be a good and forward-looking owner. The debate on state ownership often raises questions about how active ownership should be exercised. Public opinion is often raised and proposals are made for ownership to be of a more operational nature. Some motions in today's report highlight a desire for the government to be a more tricky owner. However, much suggests that today's governance is prudent and balanced with specifically decided social mandates as well as commercial state companies governed by wise boards where the state's influence comes mainly from a clear ownership policy and in some cases specific tasks and mission objectives. We Social Democrats have a pragmatic approach to state ownership. It is not an end in itself that the state owns companies. But when they fulfil a function, for example, they have special social assignments or when companies are simply a good investment for the Swedish people, we will not work for divestments for ideological reasons. In a motion from the Moderates, you go in the opposite direction. We have also heard this in the speaker's chair. It wants to sell out and privatise the majority of state-owned companies and, at least, those without special social mandates. If this becomes a reality, companies such as Bilprovningen, SJ, Postnord, Vattenfall, Telia, LKAB and SBAB, to name a few, risk being privatised. Surely it is refreshing to have a critical attitude and not to see state ownership as an end in itself. But in this case we are talking about far-reaching privatisations that I think will put Swedish jobs and Swedish development and growth at a disadvantage. In addition, several state-owned companies are important in terms of security policy. One example is Telia, which is certainly a stock exchange company but still security policy important. We believe that, at best, sales would be economically disadvantageous and, at worst, also a security policy risk. Mr President, I would like to The state-owned companies should be seen as an asset for the Swedish people. We Social Democrats believe that they should continue to contribute to a stronger society and to our common society, which we hope will continue to be strong.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-204	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mathias Tegnér about what I touched on in my speech: the land supply programme for Sveaskog. You're a representative of the government party. You have had government power since 2014, and you have received signals that the land supply programme is slow. As I said, they have expanded the number of who can buy. It doesn't even have to be a Swedish buyer, and you don't have to live in the same county. You can have it only as a placement. You have done nothing to ensure that this corresponds to what the Parliament adopted a proposal and a proposal on 2001, namely to try to get better livelihoods in rural and sparsely populated areas and that people should be able to live on. It was this development in rural areas that was the idea of the bill. Will you try to contribute to this? This does not mean anything to development, but it is just a place for money - strong people who even run over the local residents. The sales are made in large sjok; they are in the twenty million class when there is a bid. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mathias Tegnér of the Socialist Party: Do you think that this is what was meant by the sales programme and the social mission? Does the program live up to this? Why don't you try and stop this? You've had almost four and a half years to watch this. I agree with a lot of what you say in your speech, but I do not. The sale of government property does not contribute to the idea that rural areas should benefit. People in sparsely populated areas only get harder and harder. This certainly does not contribute to what was the idea of the bill. I'd like to hear your point of view on that, please.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-209	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Birger Lahti, for the question. No one has escaped the commitment of Mr Lahti to these issues. Sveaskog is an important instrument for the Swedish state, and as I said in my speech, it is important for the Social Democrats that the whole country should live. As the honourable Member himself said, there have been changes in the land supply programme over the period. Given that there is a lot of criticism, one should probably evaluate how it works. However, my picture is not the same as the honourable Member Lahti: that the way forward is for all forest holdings in Sweden to be state-owned and within the framework of Sveaskog.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-211	Mr President, I would like to I've never said it's about all forest holdings. All state forests are going under an umbrella. I've never said anything else. However, this goes the other way. The Swedish National Audit Office concluded that it has made too narrow a prioritization of those who are rural people. They didn't look at this at all. There was a range of between 5 and 10 percent in the bill, but still it is now said that it is 10 percent to sell out. That is the benchmark. You as a government could have stopped this. In fact, in the public opinion it stood at 5-10 percent, and 5 percent was achieved a long time ago. You could have stopped this a long time ago if the will had existed, but I don't know who it is that you're trying to pick up on still selling government property. It does not provide anything for those of us who live in rural and sparsely populated areas. This is not a development for us, but the opposite. Rather, it is an investment opportunity for money - strong people. They can put their money where they want it, but this only leads to the erosion of government property. It is going in the wrong direction in relation to what is stated in the bill. The spirit of the bill is great, but this is going the wrong way. I still wonder, are you going to try to stop what is going in the wrong direction compared to what was the idea? As far as state forest is concerned, I've never said that all forest should be state forest. I think that the wealth of Swedish forestry is precisely that there are also small users who use the forest in a different way. That is what gives the fantastic combination that we have in Swedish forestry.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-215	Mr President, I would like to In that case, I misunderstood your statement, Birger Lahti, in the previous line shift. I'm sorry about that. As far as your question is concerned, the answer is really what I said a moment ago: it is important that we have forestry that works and is active. It is good that there are many small forest owners, and I think it is important that Sveaskog is an active owner in these situations. There have been criticisms, and therefore it is reasonable to evaluate the land supply programme. However, I would put it in a different way from what Birger Lahti does when you say that this is just about selling out government property. This is not how I perceive it, but I perceive it as a policy of being well-functioning for Swedish rural areas. And it's important to us Social Democrats.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-218	Mr President, I would like to Mathias Tegnér described the entrances to the government and the Social Democrats. It was interesting to listen to. One point I made in my speech and in which I would like to do a little bit is linked to Inland Innovation and Fouriertransform, which was set up to provide access to venture capital. This concerned both geographical areas such as northern Sweden, Värmland and Dalarna, and, in the other company, more aimed at the manufacturing industry. The companies were created precisely to make venture capital available in geographical areas where there is little competition on the market and where the needs are great. Instead, the government formed Saminvest during the last term of office and brought the companies in there. I would like to ask my question in connection with the high tailings that existed in earlier criticisms of the companies: in what way can Mathias Tegnér today describe the result from the new Saminvest? The question is whether Saminvest reaches the areas and the industries that most need it. Or is there just another player who already has access to other private venture capital?
i-a4ba94530076c58a-221	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Annika Qarlsson, for the question! Basically, it can be said that it is important that there is state capital that is prepared to invest both in metropolitan regions and throughout the country. I also mentioned in my speech that it is extremely important that Almi Invest has offices throughout the country and investments in 289 of Sweden's 290 municipalities. Basically, it is important to find an effective way to make money available throughout the country in terms of channelling government investment money. These were criticisms that your colleague raised a year ago in the same debate. I still think it can be considered if it leads to less administration and more money to rural areas when the restructuring money ended up in Saminvest. I think that we should be transparent and evaluate this type of reform, because I think we agree that the important thing is that there is public venture capital throughout the country.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-224	Mr President, I would like to Criticism was loud and strong against the previous forms, and therefore it is important to ensure that results are delivered. We will closely monitor what is happening and what is happening. The second question I would like to raise was also mentioned by Mathias Tegnér in his speech. It's about SBAB. The conditions when the company was formed were completely different from today. With the guidelines SBAB has today, it is also very much a company that has halved its market area to consist of parts of Sweden instead of the whole of Sweden. I would like to hear Mathias Tegnér describe why we should continue to own and retain SBAB.
i-Kzbpe9Zkis9oQV8HT642bp	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Annika Qarlsson! I think that SBAB has played an important role. If you look at the Swedish mortgage market, you can see that during periods it has not actually worked perfectly. As an economist, I also know that one of the largest research fields in economic research is different types of market assets, i.e. market failures, so my opinion is probably that SBAB has historically filled and today plays an important role because we have – and should have – a mortgage market that works. However, in my first post I was critical that SBAB does not actually exist throughout the country, as it has done in the past. Basically, I think that SBAB is important, but when it comes to the criticism that SBAB does not exist throughout the country, we agree.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-229	Mr President, I would like to I was distressed when I heard Mathias Tegnér's speech. He stood in the pulpit and said that the bourgeois parties want to sell LKAB, Vattenfall and system-critical infrastructure that needs to be in the state's possession for security policy reasons. This can only render two conclusions. One is that Mathias Tegnér has not read the common bourgeois reservation, which says that we want to sell companies that do not have a special social mission that is difficult to manage otherwise or are not important from a strategic and security policy point of view. It also says that we do not believe that the sale of LKAB, Apoteket or Vattenfall is relevant. The question is therefore: has Mathias Tegnér not read the report, or is he interested in making the debate fulfilled simply by lying?
i-a4ba94530076c58a-231	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your questions, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin! I would like to say no to both. I've read your reservation, and I don't have the ambition to stand here and lie. However, I have also read your motion, which forms the basis of this debate. It is above all the first part that has been mentioned, which has also been moderate policy for a long time, i.e. it is precisely companies that lack special social mandates that one can imagine selling. Then, over time, it has varied exactly what the position has been, and I also said that there is a risk of selling important state-owned companies. If the Moderates have changed their mind and make other assessments as to which companies have a security policy value, I find it gratifying. I believe that there is a problem if you imagine that you can sell all companies that do not have a particular social mission. There are several companies that are actually important in terms of security policy, and I think Telia Company is one of them. So, in short, I do not want to make the debate an end of itself. I do not want to stand here and lie, and I have read carefully. I am also pleased if we can have a serious discussion about the values that actually exist in many of the companies that do not have specific social missions but are nevertheless important for society.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-234	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to hear that Mathias Tegnér has no such ambitions. I welcome that. It is remarkable, however, that it is said in the pulpit that the bourgeois parties are working to sell LKAB and Vattenfall, when it has been known, at least since bourgeois government entry in 2006, that there has been no ambition to sell either Vattenfall or LKAB. This should then be understood as what is commonly referred to as cumulative props, i.e. community missions, particularly important activities or security policy starting points. It is the overall framework for the activities we do not wish to divest. Through this change of line, we have at least made that point clear. I hope that we will not have to return to this particular part of the debate in the future.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-237	Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise that what I said was that moderate politics risks going the other way. My picture is – I may be wrong – that there have actually been different opinions within different parties. If it is the case that the Moderates' attitude is also what has previously been the common bourgeois stance, then I think it is excellent. As a starting point, I believe that there are several state-owned companies that carry out very important social missions, even though they do not have specifically decided social assignments. Again, we will discuss the issue of Telia in our committee. Telia is a stock exchange company that does not have a specific social mission but is nevertheless extremely important in terms of security policy. I think that this is a good example of allowing ideological lock-ups to take precedence over security policy. I know that we are going to get back to that issue, and I hope we can have a good discussion. These are issues that are extremely important for Sweden's security and not only important economically.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-239	Mr President, I would like to The attitude of the Swedish democrats towards state-owned companies is that these should primarily ensure the long-term interests of the citizens, both in terms of social missions and in terms of economic interests. We believe that the companies owned by the state should be managed in the best way possible. However, it is equally important that the companies provide employees with a good working environment and good conditions. The companies should of course be examples in terms of health and the environment. For some companies with special community assignments, we believe that there may be reason to review the return requirements in relation to the ability to deliver on community assignments. For companies without community commissions, we see that the basis for ownership is that the companies should provide the treasury with a good revenue. It is therefore particularly gratifying to see the overall good financial statements for 2017, with a total dividend of more than SEK 20 billion and a return on equity of as much as 12 per cent. We would like to point out that the private companies are the cornerstone of the Swedish economy but that the state will continue to own the companies that represent the overall social mission. Mr President, I would like to The management of Telia Company AB expects to receive approval from the European Commission later this year regarding the acquisition of Bonnier Broadcasting. The Swedish democrats have been highly critical of this takeover ever since the deal became known. With more than 37 percent of the shares in Telia Company, the state is a major shareholder. Our view is that Telia Company's telecommunications business is not a core business to which the government should be the owner. Already today, the State has indirect control over public service, which means that the State is in danger of being perceived as the sender of in practice all terrestrial channels. The Swedish Democrats believe that in a democracy there should be free and independent media, which is maintained through several private actors and healthy competition between them. We are aware that today there are no signs or thoughts of political governance of the channels, but only the fact that the possibility exists is worrying enough. It is the task of the Riksdag to ensure that democracy and healthy competition prevail in Sweden. Therefore, our entry is for the state as a major shareholder to work for Telia Company to be divided according to the part that is of security policy interest and telecoms business. The State can then sell out its share in the telecommunications business. Mr President, I would like to Sveaskog AB has recently decided to allocate 2,000 hectares of forest in connection with Tiveden National Park to buffer forest with adapted felling. The reason is that there have been complaints that Sveaskog managed the forest, which resulted in the greenery a few hundred meters from the national park. The transition of Sveaskog to adapted felling, i.e. a form of decent forestry with thinning and self-picking, means a loss of 50 percent of planned revenue. We see that this is an intervention in forestry, which may become a precedent and risk encroaching in future on the ownership of private forest owners, whose forests are close to national parks or other areas where the public has hobbies. National parks are extremely important and set up to protect both land and wildlife, but other land should be used to the best of its ability. We believe that Sveaskog should reconsider its decision on buffer zones in connection with Tiveden National Park and not decide to create new such buffer zones around other national parks. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to endorse our reservation 9 in the report. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but in favour of time savings, I would ask that only this reservation be accepted.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-249	Mr President, I would like to My picture is that the Swedish Democrats have historically had a different opinion from the bourgeoisie on issues of state ownership. I do not know whether rapprochement with the Christian Democrats and the Moderates has led to a change of attitude on this issue. As I see it, selling Telia would be a security issue. A number of security experts have also spoken out in this direction. My question to the honourable Member is therefore: do you not see any risks with a sale of Telia Company?
i-a4ba94530076c58a-251	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President. Maybe I shouldn't be the one to decide if there are security policy problems. But it should be perfectly possible to separate. I was asked in committee by a colleague of Mathias Tegnér and made a quick googling, in which case I found three large companies that have separated that part. On the contrary, it should be most natural for the state to ensure that it has a concentrated ownership around precisely the sensitive parts and not that we produce television programmes by extension. We should focus our ownership where it is most critical for security, and we should also be able to do so if we separate the companies.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-253	Mr President, I would like to I think the issue of Telia and security policy is extremely important. It is clear that if you start discussing a division, you risk ending up in a situation that creates several different problems. We know, for example, after discussions with Telia's management, that their view is that it is not possible to do the kind of division that the member is talking about. As I see it, this discussion also risks opening some kind of Pandora's box. Of course, the government is not the main owner of Telia. The question then is what can happen if Parliament continues to discuss the matter in this way. At worst, it can lead to a division and sale that is actually a security policy threat. I don't want to contribute to that. It may also be that the shareholders of Telia are actually against a division, although the Riksdag thinks that one should share. Then the whole process will only be an economic failure. My question is again: do the Swedish Democrats not see any risks with a process that can lead to a sale of Telia shares?
i-a4ba94530076c58a-257	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President. No, I do not see the problem of security policy if we, the state, retain ownership of the important infrastructure of security policy. Nor can I see why a sale of the telecoms part would be an economic failure for the state. I don't understand why that would be a problem. On the contrary, I think it is very important that the state is not the owner of all terrestrial television. It is true that we are not the main owner of Telia, but we are a big owner and can influence. I am fully aware that shareholders may not want to share at all, and I understand that management even less than any others want to see a division. They have a mission to deliver good profits, and they do. They're very good. I share the view of the Social Democrats that we can be good owners if we are not too busy, but from a security policy point of view, I think it is important that we have control over the infrastructure. I am also at that age that I remember when we talked about the liberalisation of electricity market infrastructure and network activities. Then it was exactly the same tone: it is not possible, and it is deadly. But it turns out it went well.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-261	Mr President, I would like to We will now debate the Defence Committee's report on the National Audit Office's report National Defence at regional level. It is now of the utmost importance that we strengthen the defence of Sweden, and an important part is that it works at a regional level. This is why it is an important report that the Swedish National Audit Office has made. They note that there are a number of shortcomings and point out, among other things, that, at higher levels of conflict, the ability of regional staffs to solve their tasks is limited by a number of shortcomings in both conditions and working methods, which are not fully effective. It is also pointed out that the Swedish Armed Forces' control of the regional staffs is assessed by the Swedish National Audit Office as unclear in terms of both internal control documents and harmonisation and development of best practice. Furthermore, it is said that the staffs have not been trained in their full management role and it is therefore difficult to assess to what extent they can lead subordinate units and support at operational and tactical level. It is very important that this is now being taken care of and corrected as we build up the defence, Mr President, because it is important that the defence can work if the worst happens. If we suffer a conflict or end up in war, it must work at the local level. In this context, the Christian Democrats have tabled a motion in which we want the four regional staffs, which are an important part of the Swedish Armed Forces, to be given the task of initiating an increased exercise where qualified military resources are made available to other authorities to contribute to natural disasters, major accidents or other events that may affect people's safety. What we point out in this exercise is that the resources of the Swedish Armed Forces are at risk of being unused in situations where they could be of great benefit because there are no exercises carried out. It goes without saying that if it is to work, it must be practiced. That is why it has been so tragic historically that when it has been saved on the Swedish defence, it is precisely exercises that have been ironed on the foot. Having bandages, restocking and holding exercises gives military effect, but it is equally obvious for a civil defence. It is so important that we use the resources available efficiently. We know one thing, namely that there will be natural disasters in the future and that there will be major accidents. Then it is important that we can use our resources effectively. Madam President, I would like The response of the majority of committees shows that the Swedish Armed Forces' support to civil society should not be dimensional. Here I would like to remind you how crazy and inadequate it was this summer, unfortunately, at the disaster of the fires. The Swedish Armed Forces had not been given the task of helping when the resources of civil society were insufficient. You helped out anyway, but you could have given more help if you had received the assignment. Accidents will happen in the future. That is why it is so important that the deficiencies highlighted by the Swedish National Audit Office are corrected and that, as shown in our exercise, it is ensured to practice at the local and regional level so that the resources available are used in the most efficient way possible. With these words, I am in favour of our reservation.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-270	Madam President, I would like It was under the government Göran Persson that a defence decision in 2004 stated that the Swedish Armed Forces' support to civil society should not be dimensional. Such a wording may not sound so serious, but as it has come to be interpreted by our authorities, we have landed in an unfortunate situation. For example, not being dimensional has been interpreted by the helicopter flotilla as not being able to make holiday plans to extinguish forest fires in the summer. This planning must not be done because it prepares, dimensions itself, for the task of supporting civil society. What happens every summer when there's a fire in the forest – it does every summer – is that you drag people home from vacations ad hoc and then give them the task to put out the lights. Several defence preparations have called for a review of the so-called support regulation that regulates the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to help civil society, but no such investigation has yet been set up by the current government, Madam President. Supporting civil society has many advantages. I'll dwell on the most important ones. First of all, it is my view that the Swedish Armed Forces, through their strong efforts in civil crisis management in civil society, will also increase the capability of the Swedish Armed Forces. When helicopters have to work to extinguish forest fires, pick up patients in the archipelago and so on, they work, and they give the necessary training time to our flight drivers. It is also obvious that Sweden's taxpayers are demanding the state to use its accumulated resources in a rational way. It's not happening today. There are authorities working in various drain pipes without any further coordination. After the debate on forest fires last summer, for example, the Swedish Maritime Administration asked whether it was possible for them to also participate in the extinguishing of forest fires. The answer was that the work had to get extra money, the helicopters had to be adapted and so on. Madam President, I would like This should have been done a long time ago. Last but not least, it is important that military resources are used. If so, and the Swedish people see this, it will help to anchor the military defence of the people and increase support for the efforts now being made in the field of defence. Just as Mikael Oscarsson said: If efforts to support civil society are to work, they must also be practiced before the crisis occurs. Madam President, I would like I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-276	Madam President, I would like As has been said before, we are now dealing with the report of the Committee on Defence FÖU10 National Audit Office's report National defence at regional level. Madam President, I would like In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether the Swedish Armed Forces' regional staff are in a position to solve their main tasks and whether the work is carried out in an appropriate manner. The review was carried out in autumn 2017 and spring 2018. In the review, the Swedish National Audit Office has collected information from the Ministry of Defence, the Swedish Armed Forces and 17 county boards. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall assessment is that the overall objective of the Riksdag and the Government is met, i.e. that the work of the regional staff contributes to the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to solve national tasks by exercising territorial management, leading the Home Guard units and providing support to society. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office considers that the government's control of the Swedish Armed Forces in relation to the regional staffs is sufficiently clear, relevant to the task and takes place with a reasonable frequency. The same applies to the Swedish Armed Forces' reporting back, both internally and to the government. The Swedish National Audit Office also considers that the regional staff together with, among other things, county boards are central actors in the development of total defence at regional level. At higher levels of conflict, however, the ability of regional staffs to solve their tasks is limited by a number of shortcomings in both conditions and working methods, which are not fully effective. The Swedish Armed Forces' control of the regional staffs is assessed by the Swedish National Audit Office as unclear in terms of both internal control documents and harmonisation and the development of best practices. The staffing needs of the staff of the staff are not entirely matched by the staffing planned. The staffs have not been trained in their full management role, and it is therefore difficult to assess the extent to which they can lead subordinate units and support at operational and tactical level. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the regional staff in the Military Region mine faces specific geographical and task-related challenges that mean that they are not able to solve their tasks in the same way as other regional staffs can. Madam President, I would like In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office makes recommendations to the Swedish Armed Forces, namely: 中 clarify governance documents so that the tasks of the regional staffs are clearly and comprehensively defined, with a view to ensuring clarity for the staff and facilitating the evaluation and reporting of war units to the government • to harmonise the work of regional staffs to a greater extent and to ensure that effective working methods are shared and implemented by all regional staffs where appropriate; Ensure that the regional staff are trained in their full role of commanding subordinate units and supporting at operational and tactical level 中 consider measures that could increase the possibilities for the regional staff of the Military Region in order to resolve their assigned tasks more effectively 中 take into account the staffing needs of the regional staff in terms of background and experience. Madam President, I would like In addition to these recommendations, the Swedish National Audit Office has presented three additional recommendations in a secret memo that has been served on the Ministry of Defence and the Swedish Armed Forces. The Government welcomes the Swedish National Audit Office's review and follows the agency's efforts to take care of the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations. The Social Democrats and the Committee also welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations and intend to follow up on the work of taking care of the recommendations. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to support the proposal contained in the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-291	Madam President, I would like The National Audit Office's report is called National Defence at a regional level. It is heard on the name how important it is with collaboration, synchronisation and management for it to work to defend Sweden. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall assessment is approved – that the overall objective of the Riksdag and the Government is met, i.e. that the work of the regional staff contributes to the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to solve national tasks by exercising territorial leadership, leading the Home Guard units and providing support to society. The Swedish National Audit Office considers that the government's control of the Swedish Armed Forces regarding the regional staffs is clear, relevant to the task and takes place with a reasonable frequency. The same applies to the Swedish Armed Forces' reporting back, both internally and to the government. But, Madam President, there are still a number of recommendations addressed to the Armed Forces which are probably so important: 中 to clarify governance documents so that the tasks of the regional staffs are clearly and comprehensively defined in order to provide clarity for the staffs and facilitate the evaluation and reporting of war units to the government 中 to harmonise the work of regional staffs to a greater extent and to ensure that effective working methods are shared and implemented by all regional staffs where appropriate; 中 ensuring that regional staffs are trained in their full role of commanding subordinate units and supporting at both operational and tactical levels □ to consider measures that could increase the possibilities for the regional staff of the Military Region to resolve their assigned tasks more effectively; the need to take into account the staffing needs of the regional staff in terms of background and experience; I think like this, Madam President: management, effective working methods, clarity, practice – here the Swedish Armed Forces have some work to do to better defend Sweden. All the reviews and reports I think are good, because you can look at your business and see what you can do to improve yourself. I think it's gonna be okay. But we also need to give the Swedish Armed Forces the opportunity to do their job. This and the deteriorating security situation for Sweden make it clear that our defence needs to be strengthened. Then it feels good to me as moderate that the Swedish Moderates' and Christian Democrats' budget for 2019, which is now the entire Riksdag's budget, has increased the funding for the Swedish Armed Forces. Now there is scope to achieve the ambition of the 2015 Defence Decision. Now it is possible to complete the decided war organization. Now planning for increased ability can begin. In the long term, the Moderates want Sweden's defence spending to be closer to 2 per cent of GDP, and our ambition is to implement this over a ten-year period. We have also provided additional funds to several of the other defence authorities as well as resources to strengthen crisis preparedness and civil defence. The basic focus of the task force and its components is to develop and ensure the war ability of all the armed forces. In particular, it is a priority to increase the capacity for war of the units with the lowest capacity for war today. We want the ability to quickly mobilise the entire war organisation in the event of increased preparedness to be strengthened. It is now being given the opportunity to do so. Central to achieving the goals set is a continued high ambition in terms of exercise activities and education. This too is now being made possible. Finally, it is important that the staff supply function. Key factors for this are, among other things, a functioning officer's supply in order to provide sufficient basic training for soldiers and sailors as well as improved benefits for the staff employed. With this, Madam President, we also believe that it is possible to follow the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office for an even better opportunity to defend Sweden. Of course, we'll follow that work from here.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-308	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's conclusions and recommendations have been read out here. Let me make a few points. It's not supposed to be dimensional, no. I think most of us share that view. But it costs money. It must be included in the budget to strengthen the Armed Forces with the part that it does not need directly to the war organization. Should you have slodor for fire-fighting helicopters, yes, who should buy them in? It costs, too. That money must accompany the changed missions to the Armed Forces. There is also talk of practicing. With what? The staff will practice with their subordinate units. What are the sub-units? Are they going to practice with one and a half brigades scattered across the kingdom and some support units? When the staffs were properly trained as they used to be, the regional staffs had at least three brigades plus five six seven eight subordinate units, assigned units, to practice with. It is not the same as that they cannot practice today, but you have to understand that it is a problem when you say that the Swedish Armed Forces have a job to do here. We will also look at the civilian part linked to, for example, Ulf Siverstedt, who is military region manager in Norrland. He has developed a very good cooperation with the civilian, which is also reported. So there are some positive and very positive things going on in that paragraph, in cooperation with the civil authorities. Nevertheless, I think it is an important report that has been highlighted here, and I think it is worth the defence committee being updated from time to time on how work is progressing on the follow-up of these activities.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-314	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the annual defence policy report, which contains many different issues and approaches in defence policy. I would like to start by saying that, of course, I support all the moderate reservations, but for the time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 11. The main focus of the defence policy is to strengthen the operational capabilities of the armed forces and intensify the work on total defence. It is the so-called base plate in defence that is to be strengthened. It will require more training hours and more material. But in Sweden we have had quite a hard time assigning bulk materials to our units. It's been about a lack of combat equipment, boots and ammunition. This is despite the fact that a fairly large proportion of the defence budget is spent on supplies. We therefore propose Moderates to set up an investigation to come up with concrete proposals on how to address this problem, ultimately because soldiers and sailors have the right to demand the right equipment and equipment when and where it is needed. While we have this focus here and now in defence policy, we must follow the extremely rapid development of technology at global level, ultimately because it will change the modern battlefield. In the future, we will see more drones and more self-propelled systems on land and at sea, better remote combat capabilities and increasingly advanced cyber attacks. We also see that Russia is now making major investments in this area, including through the Kalibr robot and the PAK FA fighter aircraft as well as the T14 Armata tank. We have also seen how parts of eastern Ukraine and Syria have become veritable test beds for the new Russian defence technology. That is something that we should take heights for for the next defence decision. Madam President, I would like The West has been leading the development of military technology for half a century. It has laid the foundations for the liberal world order that we have. But there is a risk that Europe and Sweden will lag behind in this area. Within the EU, investment in defence research has decreased by nearly 40% over the past decade, and in Sweden the so-called FOT grant, the grant for Swedish Armed Forces' research and technology development, has been reduced by 70%. If this diet had been a well thought-out process, it would not necessarily have been a problem. Tough priorities are also necessary in defence policy, and we must dare to reconsider our research and development models. However, according to the government's investigators, the process carried out has been a disaster as soon as possible. We Moderates therefore point out that we in Sweden need to become much more skilled at integrating civil technology for military applications, and we need to make greater investments in defence research in the future. I note that the new defence budget is in fact a step in the right direction, albeit from a low level. Madam President, I would like The EU's defence and security policy has made very rapid progress over the past year. One of the driving forces of the EU is precisely that it should not fall behind in the field of military technology. Within the EU, Member States spend about SEK 250 billion in the field of defence, but the common capability of these efforts is limited. Among other things, the EU has established a defence fund and launched 34 new military development projects, known as Pesco projects. Efforts are now being made to improve the coordination of defence efforts in Europe. Properly designed, this cooperation can lead the EU to take greater responsibility for international peace and security, and it can also help to strengthen Swedish defence capabilities. Unfortunately, I feel that the government has often backed into the cooperation. It has been held back and criticized. This is unfortunate because Sweden has very good conditions for participating in the cooperation. There are some things that make Sweden unique. Sweden is the only country in the EU to have participated in all military and civilian crisis management operations. We have been very proactive in developing civilian crisis management capabilities. We have strong authorities such as FOI and FMV, and we are one of a handful of countries in the world that can build submarines, battleships and fighter planes. This should, of course, give influence at the negotiating table. There is probably no other country which, in relation to its size, should have such good conditions for shaping the EU's defence policy as Sweden. At the same time, there is no other country in the EU that has been so cautious about participating in the Pesco projects. There are 34 such projects, and Sweden only participates in four of them. I find that remarkable. I think it will create some disadvantages for Sweden. Ultimately, the Pesco projects will be financed by the EU Defence Fund. We will contribute to the European Defence Fund, but we will not be able to take part in the funding of Pesco projects by the Defence Fund. What is actually happening is that we are paying tax money to the defence fund and building up the defence capabilities of other countries. But if we are not part of the Pesco projects, the money will not return to Sweden again, and that is a big problem for us. Ultimately, it is, I believe, about Sweden having had a very difficult time orienting itself in the EU's defence cooperation after the British left it. I believe that we need to work much more to build new coalitions within the EU, and we also need to have a better process of preparation at home between actors such as authorities, companies and academia, so that we really take advantage of the opportunities offered by cooperation. Madam President, I would like I read in Dagens Nyheter yesterday that Minister for Digitalization Anders Ygeman now says that it is considering limiting foreign companies' access to critical infrastructure. I welcome this, but I would also like to see the government actually acting on this issue. Sweden is different in this respect, because we have no legislation that can limit foreign investment in critical infrastructure. Especially in a situation where so much of our critical infrastructure is handled by private companies, it matters whether it is Swedish or foreign companies. That is why this is urgent. The Moderates are pushing for legislation to be put in place in this area. Madam President, I would like The final point concerns our cyber capabilities. Here is the great paradox that we in Sweden are very good at digitalisation, but we are weak when it comes to cyber security. This creates a situation where we have very large dependencies and also great vulnerabilities. I welcome the fact that the government has now said that a cyber-operation centre should be set up. That is something we have been asking for for a long time. I also believe that the political governance of cyber security must be better than it is today. If you don't get it fixed, you won't get the authorities in order either. That's why we've been asking the government to set up a cybersecurity coordinator to keep cooperation in the cyber area together. This is missing today. If you do not get the governance right, you will not get the authorities in order either. I think this is very urgent. Finally, let me also say that the Swedish Armed Forces have started their work with cybersecurity soldiers and a top-level training in the cyber area. It's very good, especially for our collective cyber capabilities. I also believe that this is an important step in increasing the conditions for more recruitment to the cybersecurity area. This is a matter of great urgency, especially in view of the fact that we currently lack nearly 70 000 people in the IT sector.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-334	Madam President, I would like We are in favour of all our reservations, but for the sake of time, I am only in favour of reservations 10 and 20. I'll touch them briefly. One reservation is about joint ownership of materials in the Nordic countries. We think this is a good thing, but it must be on condition that the material is clearly marked, so that during a stand-by exercise you can take your own materiel. It's important. The second reservation is that the Nordic defence cooperation within Nordefco should be deepened. We believe that Finland has strong cultural and political ties with us. We have a long history in common. I guess that's not news, in itself. We want a defence alliance in the long term. The threshold effect, as it is said, will then be significantly increased, and new strategic depths can then be created. That is what our motion is about. That is what we want to say. With regard to Mr Pesco, I would like to comment on what the previous speaker said. I share the view expressed, but I also think it should be said that on a number of occasions the Minister for Defence has stated to us that one of the major problems in Pesco is the problem of third countries. Not all countries in the cooperation are willing to admit a third country. Our industry, for example, is not built like the one in France. This means that there is opposition among these countries to the admission of a third country. This is being done, and I have the impression that this issue is not being reduced. Contributions to the defence fund are linked to the fact that we can join the areas within Pesco that we share. Having said that, I would like to move on to what I was going to talk about most today. At the moment, the work of the Defence Committee is ongoing, as you know. It deals with cybersecurity, among other things. We think that the defence preparation is largely good. It is managed in a commendable way by Björn von Sydow and his colleagues. What will be reported to the government in May – on 14 May, I believe – will show that in 2025 it will be on a budget equivalent to 1.5% of GDP. This is interesting. Have you, in your party governments, anchored the road up to 2% of the bnp? I would like you to respond to that today, if you can. It is important to do this. Otherwise, you know how it goes. We see it if we back down in time: the autumn budget will come, and then there will be the debates and the cuts. We've laid a line. I have party support to continue the road up to 2 and 21⁄2 percent and then land. That's what we're going to do. It's anchored. Have you anchored 1.5% to 2025? That's my question. You can look back at how it has been over the years. Some of you have said that a lot of money is being invested, and that has been said for a long time. My view is that some of you have not at all done so. You haven't invested the money you're talking about in the papers. I've brought all the reports from 2014. They confirm what I am saying now, if anyone doubts it. Then I have another point, which we will raise with RUT and which I will report later on. We want the defence budget to be long-term, and then we have to come up with proposals for this. I think most of you share that view. Is it supposed to be three years or five years? With annual budget reports, we put hundreds of officers to count around the clock, I was about to say. Instead, you push the money out. It's a three-year budget now. Now we have agreed to the Moderate and KD budget of 18 billion. Then we'll have to deal with it. But the budget should be in three years. It is true that we can strengthen it for various reasons, such as the dimension of civil use and so on, but otherwise they should be able to manage this money over the turn of the year. RUT's looking at it. We'll get back to you in that paragraph. Then there is the construction of the Armed Forces. We're talking about the regional staff. We want seven brigades in the long term. It looks very different in the country. We want to strengthen the amphibious battalions, both in the Gothenburg area and in other parts that we consider to be strategically important for Sweden. It's about a number of more amphibian brigades. It is about city shooting units and battalions in Stockholm, Malmö and Gothenburg, for example. That's what we want. Of course, we also want to strengthen the navy and have new corvettes and an anti-aircraft system worth the name. I will now come back to this and ask you to take in a broad basis for decision. There are many different suppliers. In some cases, Swedish defence industry is involved. This is the case in most cases when it comes to our radar systems with different sensors. It has a unique opportunity to participate in these projects, whether it is the CAMM robots or any other system. We should focus on this. We want to gradually increase the volume of military service and the number of officers. We say no to the fast track for officers. It doesn't train enough skilled officers in the long term. But I believe that the defence committee has taken an important step in the right direction. I'm not going to comment on it any more than that until it's finished. That's 7,000 conscripts. Gradually, our organization requires 20 000-22,000 conscripts. Civil duty should be introduced on a broad front. In this paragraph, I think I should mention our journey. We were at NATO headquarters, including in France and Brussels. We landed in London. In one place we met Steve Zate. He is political advisor to Supreme Allied Commander Europe – Saceur. Among other things, he answered a question from one of the members here about how to assess NATO accession. He said we probably meet the criteria for that, but he also said another thing. He said: All the Member States are going to agree to this. In addition, he said that the security policy effect of this was taken into account in some form. We'll decide for ourselves. But you weigh this in. Do you recognise our reasoning on this when it comes to joining NATO? This is possibly about Finland and the Baltic Sea becoming a NATO sea. It will increase tensions. This will be taken into account when assessing such an application. That's my interpretation of what he said. That interpretation is shared by two others who were on the journey, in different shades. But it was a signal. It's not just snapping your fingers and thinking you can join NATO. France is only investing in its own defence industry. They interpret the rules in this way. It's about procurement and so on. Let us also be clear about FMV in the procurements. First of all, bet on the Swedish defence industry where there is expertise! Do not buy robot systems from other countries when there are developed opportunities for the Swedish defence industry to participate! This is something that I think we should all bear in mind, and clear directives should be written to FMV in that paragraph. Now I see time's up.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-353	Madam President, I would like In fact, I'm going to start by answering a question. Mr Richtoff asked whether we have established the 2% target within the political parties. I can only account for the Moderates. We have a set 2% target up to 2027. The secret in this area is that you should go from Powerpoint to Word and then to Excel. We have a clear stairway to reach the 2% target by 2027, as I said. It's important. It is good that Mr Richtoff is addressing the third-country problem. I think we are fundamentally united in wanting the most inclusive cooperation possible in this area, so that we can have good partners. In the end, however, a great deal of these projects will be financed by European taxpayers. Then I think that there are some inherent limitations on how much it can be spent on being outside the Union. I'm just saying that to nuance that discussion. But what I wanted to lift was the last comment: that we should buy Swedish. I know that the Swedish Democrats say that they stand up for the Swedish defence industry. And Article 346, which deals with exemptions for competition procurement, is respected in order to protect the Swedish defence industry. I dare to say that Article 346, on the contrary, is a threat to the Swedish defence industry. The future of the Swedish defence industry is not in Sweden. Sweden has 4% of the EU's joint defence efforts and 0.5% of the world's international defence efforts. The future lies in the international market and market access on an equal footing in Europe. It is a problem for Sweden that other countries apply Article 346. On the contrary, we should be the driving force for it to be as restrictive as possible, so that Swedish companies can really get on the international market, because that is where the future lies. The order books at home are in some areas well filled.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-358	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member said that you should go up to 2% on a flight of stairs until 2027, if I understood it correctly. It's a very short period. But I think I understand that there are a lot of other holes to put that money in when it comes to supplies. In the short period of time, getting the military units up to a dimension that involves additional brigades will be very difficult to catch up with, given the training of officers and conscripts. But à la bonne heure, there are holes to put in. I think it's great. Thank you for that answer. After all, this procurement regulation is being interpreted. FMV does a different interpretation than France does. That is a completely different interpretation. This is also confirmed by FMV. You buy the cheapest thing you can get. I am thinking of Israel's purchases or the research and development that will be in this. You put it there because it's cheaper. Yeah, but FMV isn't looking at the big picture. Where do they pay the tax? Where do we keep that research? Such a holistic approach is not the role of FMV, but they interpret the rules. When I talk to them, they say: This is how we interpret it. France interprets it differently. Then I agree that development should take place. But we have a strategic partner called Brazil. I am thinking of the new fighter aircraft that France, perhaps together with Italy, wants to develop. Do we have a role there? Or should we cooperate with England instead, who brings out a new one? Should we cooperate with England and perhaps Finland? Brazil wants to buy sausages from Sweden with the robot system CAMM, for example. There we are also a very interesting and strategic partner. So we are also looking a little further.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-361	Madam President, I would like I do not really feel that Richtoff gave an answer to my question as to whether the future of the Swedish defence industry lies in being a domestic supplier or on the international market or on the EU market. How you land there, I think, will play a role in how you look at Article 346, if you want to strengthen it, that is, limit the European market, or not. What Mr Richtoff said, that there are different interpretations in different countries, is true. On the other hand, we have seen five cases in recent years when the European Commission has taken countries to the Court of Justice of the European Union, which has condemned them for abuse of Article 346. Basically, this is good for Swedish defence companies, which are export oriented. They are on an export share of up to 70 – 80 percent, and they want market access. I think it is in this direction of movement that we must move if we are to protect Swedish defence companies. The second part concerned research and development, which I was discussing in my speech. There we see that the state side has declined sharply in recent years. If this area is to be protected, exports should also be protected, because this is the only way these companies can share development costs. The Swedish customer is the main reference object, but the important thing is to get large series. It is therefore important to open up the European Armed Forces and be more restrictive in the interpretation of Article 346.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-364	Madam President, I would like I shall go into the questions put by the honourable Member. As far as the future is concerned internationally, let me be clear: I believe in both. But I believe that we will increase the international dimension, because this is absolutely necessary. That is why I want to highlight our strategic partner Brazil, but now there are other countries that might buy JAS and that will become strategic. As far as the issue of research and development is concerned, we are committed to this. We have now accepted the budget presented, and this is progress, as the honourable Member said just now. What we wanted to do we can leave behind, because it is this budget that is now in force. But I see the international future. When it comes to opposing Article 346, it is interpreted differently, but the most important thing is to change the interpretation quickly so that we are at least on the track that France and other countries are driving without being tried. I think this is very important.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-368	Madam President, I would like Defence policy and today's report contain many elements and sub-headings. Some important areas are Nordic cooperation, research and development, foreign strategic cooperation, EU cooperation, material supply and logistics. There is also a grey zone problem in terms of cyber capabilities, preparedness and exercises. These are very topical issues. As we heard at the beginning of this debate, intensive work is currently under way during the current and upcoming period of the Defence Committee to develop the conditions in the next interim report. The report and the majority of committees, and indeed the whole text, refer to the report we submitted in December 2017 or not to anticipate the conclusions of future reports from the Defence Committee. Some 30 requests submitted during the exercise are answered in this way in the Minutes and in the report. There is reason to study the various parties' proposals, reflections and ambitions for the coming years when it comes to Swedish defence policy development. Both 2015 and the years after, the Center Party has been involved in the work of the Defence Group in close cooperation with the parties that entered into the agreement and has further supplemented this approach on several occasions, including in budgetary terms. We have contributed to the development of capabilities and also more resources for defence activities, but we recognise that the challenges for the next few years' work are great. We also realise that in many areas a great deal of effort needs to be made to both take responsibility for the decision that is currently in force and to dimension an organisation that meets the current and future security situation. This debate is therefore important. We will be able to end up in areas that touch other reports, and that is often the case when we discuss defence policy. Madam President, I would like When we look at the outside world, not least Russia's action with the flight that took place provocatively almost last week and that was reported in the media as well as the preparedness controls and ambition increases that have taken place in recent years, from the 2008 defence reform onwards, we see that their ability to act and freedom of action to defend and act militarily has increased. We see this in military terms, in the contingency controls, in the exercise activities and in the priority given to preparedness. This growth of ability, which is taking place despite sanctions and economic constraints towards the outside world, and the ongoing war in Ukraine and also in Syria, which is actively taking part, has extremely important perspectives for us in our Swedish defence discussion on the future and where we are going. Therefore, the upcoming work of the Defence Committee is extremely central. We heard one of the debaters refer to one of the latest travels of the Defense Committee. Yes, it was one in a series of trips where we meet our friends in the European Union and also our NATO friends and where we listen to how they view reality and circumstances. It is important to gather knowledge and to have a constant, ongoing dialogue on what is needed and required. We can look at what our friends and neighbours – NATO neighbours and EU members – are doing when it comes to military capabilities. We can go through a number of countries and see how the relative GDP rates look like in 2018: Estonia has 2.1 percent, Latvia 2.0 percent, L itauen 2.0 percent, Denmark 1.2 percent, Norway 1.6 percent, Finland 1.4 percent, Germany 1.2 percent, France 1.8 percent, Great Britain 2.1 percent, Poland 2.0 percent and Sweden 1.06%. We need to broaden our defence policy discussion and reflection and also analyse our situation. Many political representatives in this House say that we should remain outside NATO membership. There are also different perspectives on what NATO cooperation should in practice contain and mean. It obliges the countries I have listed to give a clear priority to additional resources for defence and military capabilities. It obliges us to answer the question: what should Sweden budget without NATO membership? I have still not heard the Social Democrats deliver an ambition for the final report of the Defence Committee in May. How much money do the government parties intend to spend for the next defence-oriented period, 2021-2025? First year we know, because it was decided in this House before New Year's. But what applies to the whole up to 2025? Without a Swedish NATO membership, the figures should be considerably higher than those I previously listed, beyond Sweden's current level. The Centre Party has clearly stated in its decisions and various debates in this House that our goal for the Swedish Defence Committee's work ahead of 2021-2025 is at least the Nordic average in proportion of GDP. This figure is moving as the Nordic countries otherwise increase their resources for defence. In the long term, we are behind the 2% target, and we are actively working for Sweden to become a member of NATO. The work of the next few months is therefore extremely important for how we land in a broad and constructive ambition for the Swedish defence policy as possible. It is about the next period, but it is also about laying the foundations for the years after when such great material challenges await us. It is necessary to update existing systems and also to dimension more in the organisation in order to increase the capacity to defend the whole country. It will be about very important details but also about overall discussions. From a centre point of view, I look forward to this and to monitoring what we have presented for this chamber debate. It concerns the importance of the army, the role of the Home Guard, management and logistics, cyber capabilities, capacity-enhancing measures in the near future, so that we can really see the effects of what a strong defence force and operational capabilities mean in practice. Madam President, I would like I will not extend the debate any further, but would just like to point out that we in the Center Party are calling for the approval of reservation 4 in today's report.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-380	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Defence Committee's report on defence policy. This is an important area. We are also debating this in view of an increasingly tough world. We see that it is a tougher exercise pattern from Russia in our neighbourhood. As far as Ukraine is concerned, it is five years ago that Russia entered and illegally took over Crimea. But still, as we stand here discussing, there is a war going on in Eastern Ukraine. Since the start of the aggression, Russia has taken control of a territory corresponding to about 7% of its surface area, where an estimated 15 to 20% of the population lives. As a result, 13 000 people have been killed, almost 25 000 have been wounded and at least 1.6 million have become internally displaced persons. This is Europe. It has created swells especially in our neighbouring countries in the Baltic countries, and people feel threatened. NATO has made important efforts by continuously having troops there. That's very good. This report is about Sweden. I would therefore like to call for the approval of Amendment No 3 by the Christian Democrats, which concerns the overall defence and review of the achievement of objectives. In the motions dealt with in this report, we address a little bit how we want to see the defence of Sweden strengthened. We have a good defence force, but it is too little given the threats we face. We in the Christian Democrats want to strengthen the air force, not least by using our side bases so that we can move our aircraft out again. This is so that it won't be easy to knock out our planes. We must also have staff to clarify these aircraft. That would be an important part of strengthening our defence capabilities. As far as the Navy is concerned, it is important that we not only, as today, can operate from Karlskrona. We must have bases both here in Stockholm and in Gothenburg, so that we can act simultaneously on both sides of Sweden – both on the east coast and on the west coast. As far as the army is concerned, we remind in motions that in the decision of the Defence Committee it was said about the organisation that by 2020 we would have two fully equipped and united brigades that would be combatable. What we are seeing today is that we have this on paper. What we really have, and which was practiced during Aurora, is a brigade. It's too little. In the next step, as some speakers have mentioned, it is important that we make these reinforcements for the marines and for the air force, but also for the army, which I spoke about. We can not only have two brigades on paper, and really only one, but we must have three: one in Boden, one in Skövde and one in Skåne. In the long run we should also make sure to have another brigade above the lower Dalälven. This is important to implant in a country as large as Sweden. Sweden is the second largest country in Europe. Then we must have a reasonable level of defence. Future generations will be happy to invest more. But what I was into is some kind of basic, what we need to be credible in order to defend Sweden. That is why it is so important that we agree in the future defence committee to make these efforts that are absolutely necessary for us. It is important that the Swedish people can feel that we have a defence force that can defend us. As I have previously mentioned, we must also invest in cybersecurity. In fact, today it is indecent that we have six authorities sharing responsibility. It falls between the chairs, which is not good. There will be even more ministerial directives. The Christian Democrats have been working for a long time – in fact since 2013 – to ensure that we have a cybersecurity authority. It could be like the British model, where you invest in a national cybersecurity centre. Much now indicates that this is happening, which is very gratifying. Dividing the responsibilities of so many, as we do now, is not going to be good. It falls between the chairs. Cyber safety is very important. Today it is far too easy to bring Sweden down by a cyberattack. We have seen several cyber attacks, for example in Ukraine, which have suffered several attacks. On cold December days, a quarter of a million people in Ukraine have lost the current. Russia has been identified as the one who has carried out these cyber attacks. Sweden may also suffer from this. That is why it is so important that we ensure that cyber security is strengthened. The British model has proved to be very successful. There the best have been gathered to ensure that this is carried out in society. This is very important to strengthen our protection against cyber attacks, which are only increasing. The FRA pointed out a few years ago that there were 10 000 cyber-attacks of foreign power per month. Then it has just been said that they have become more and more sophisticated. That is why it is now so important for us to act. But that is not enough. We also need to become a member of NATO. Earlier on, one Member raised questions about this and whether we were welcome. What is clear is that Sweden is welcome. We in Sweden are welcome in NATO. This would strengthen predictability and security, both for Sweden and for our neighbours. I usually say that it is much better to prepare with your friends than to have to improvise in case the worst happens. For today we cannot get together in the way that we would have to do. We are surrounded by NATO members: Norway, Denmark, Germany, Poland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. If Sweden were to be a member of NATO, we would have a much stronger capacity. We are now a partner with NATO, and that is a good thing. But we should also become a full member. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to say something about our wanting it to be an independent analysis of the Swedish Armed Forces' activities and capabilities, which will account for staffing, material upfilling, implementation of training, costs, assessed capabilities and so on. This is something the Christian Democrats have been asking for for a long time. This is something that exists in Germany, for example, where each type of weapon is reported. What's going on? How much is used? For example, the German Bundestag found that no submarines were in operation. They were all in dolls. And you can have a public discussion about that. Of course we must have defence secrets. But we are about to increase the appropriations and have a stronger defence. Then it is important to tell the Riksdag and the Swedish people how we are. We also agreed on this in the Defence Committee, in our first report a year and a half ago. But nothing has happened. It is important that it now becomes a reality.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-391	Madam President, I would like I would like the honourable Member to clarify a little. Is it correct to understand that the honourable Member has anchored in the party board and leadership of his party, partly the 11⁄2 percent in the Defence Committee, and partly the further step up to 2 percent? Is this anchored?
i-a4ba94530076c58a-392	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the question. Yes, the Christian Democrats have a national decision that we should go up to 2% over a ten-year period. It is also something that most of our neighbours have decided on. Most of our neighbours, as I have just said, are members of NATO. It is estimated that around 14 of the Member States will be up to 2%. Member Daniel Bäckström made a clear and good list that showed that our neighbours are well on their way while Sweden is far too low. I'd like to take this opportunity to ask Roger Richtoff a few questions. Do the Swedish Democrats not see that NATO membership would be good for Sweden? Don't you realize that it would strengthen security? Does SD still live in any way in the belief that cooperation with Finland would suffice? It's a good collaboration. Does the honourable Member think, however, that it would be sufficiently dissuasive for Russia, for example, to have the task of making an attack? Does Member Roger Richtoff really think that's enough?
i-a4ba94530076c58a-395	Madam President, I would like One of the KD's closest friends in NATO would then become Turkey. The fact that you can see it as a partner that you want to cooperate with is still incomprehensible to us. But of course the KD itself and the honourable Member will have to do that. I have stood here many times and talked about how the Swedish Democrats view this. We see a strong Swedish defence, by going up to 2 – 2 1⁄2 percent. We see a strong marine, a strong air force and an anti-aircraft system that is worth the name, not the junk that Sweden has bought now. Together with the Defence Federation with Finland, we see it as an extremely high threshold and a stabilising factor in the Baltic Sea. That view is shared by many others. I am not saying that this was said when we were at the NATO headquarters, but it was suggested that parts that affect the relationship between the major powers should also be taken into account. How much impact it will have was said. I still think that the decision should be made in the Swedish parliament and nowhere else, as well as in Finland. So we see it as a sufficiently high threshold effect. We see NATO as a friend. But we don't see the Russians as enemies. I think that's a big difference between us, Mikael Oscarsson. A non-aligned country does not point out enemies of its own country. How you speak is a complete misjudgement on a foreign policy issue of security.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-400	Madam President, I would like When we visited NATO last week, as has been referred to several times, it was clear that it was pointed out that Sweden would fit into NATO. It was expressed as being tailored to be a member. That decision should be taken in Sweden; that is correct. There should be no pressure from Moscow or anything like that. The decision on what is best for Sweden should be taken in Sweden. There is an investigation that Krister Bringéus has done in the near future. It clearly highlights that Swedish NATO membership would strengthen security and predictability, both for us and for our neighbours. He also points out that it is quite difficult for the outside world to understand the Swedish position. We are almost seen as members of NATO and have some problems because of it. But we don't have protection. That's the difference. We are not covered by Article 5. Sweden really needs to strengthen its defence capabilities, absolutely. We need to increase the percentage of bnp. It's important. But that's not enough. We must also become a member of NATO. This is something that the Christian Democrats are working for and hoping to get through as quickly as possible.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-404	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by congratulating Mikael Oscarsson on some of the points he raised. These include the transparency of defence policy discussions. It will not be possible for politicians to promote increased defence appropriations unless we also make it possible to account for the situation. Already 200 years ago Carl af Forsell, liberal and naval officer, wrote to a comrade: Sometimes only we ourselves are ignorant of our weaknesses. So this problem is old, but it is good that it is addressed. It is also correct that since we became partners in the first half of the 1990s, Sweden has systematically adapted our military capabilities – tactically, technically, in terms of equipment and organisationally – to NATO. Anyone understands that such a process that goes on for such a long time creates dependencies. Unfortunately, we cannot, as partners, demand anything from NATO. That requires membership. Then you have both rights and obligations. You can give, and you can demand. That is why membership is indispensable for Sweden. Madam President, I would like All defense decisions and all major material purchases in Sweden have always been underfunded. However, I would argue that the 2015 defence decision is something of a historical record in this area. We are now a little more than halfway into the period of defence decision-making, and it has already been necessary on three different occasions to provide new funds. A total of 15 billion more than was forecast in 2015. Despite this, the Swedish Financial Control Agency and Statskontoret were able to tell us a few months ago that until 2025 there will be a further 29 billion missing in terms of our material allocation. Madam President, I would like Despite these efforts, there will be no delivery of what the Riksdag ordered in 2015. There won't be two fully equipped and conjugal brigades. As Army Director Engelbrektson could explain in Swedish Television the days before Christmas it becomes one. That is not enough in a country which is still the fourth largest in the European Union. The government says that the practice activities are now taking off. Of course it is; it is from very low levels. It should be said at the outset. But the annual report from the Swedish Armed Forces came a few weeks ago, and it does not tell about any increased practice activities. On the contrary, it shows fewer walking hours for our warships, fewer flying hours for our air force, and so on. Madam President, I would like The Liberals chose to drop out of negotiations for the 2015 defense decision. The reason was that we felt that it was quite clear that the money that was allocated would not be enough for the task. Now there's the truth. 14 months ago, the Swedish Defence Committee presented the report Resistance. Among other things, it proposed something called a total defence inspection. This was intended as an economic expert function, independent from the Swedish Armed Forces and – for that matter – from the government, which in the coming years would be able to evaluate and follow up the efforts now being made in civil and military defence. Liberals believe that we politicians must ensure the quality of defence proposals before we let them go if we are to avoid under-financing in the future. I believe that the overall defence inspection could have a very important task. Madam President, I would like Peter Hultqvist has become the Minister for Defence who talks about the bass album – he has been doing it for almost four years. Nevertheless, this speech lacks uniforms, boots, standard vehicles, ammunition and sufficient training activities. Instead, what has characterized the defence over the years with Peter Hultqvist has been the great, fine orders. We have ordered new submarines, the A26, and we have now ordered the medium range anti-aircraft system Patriot in the autumn of 2018. It is, among other things, because of these priorities that the other brigade does not come about. Sweden has joined Pesco and the European Defence Fund, EDF. Although we have done this, my view is that the government is almost reluctant when it comes to cooperation with the EU on defence and security. Madam President, I would like By joining these partnerships, we will have to pay up to 1 billion each year. If we're just going to be in 4 out of 34 Pesco collaborations, there's a risk that we won't get anything back for the money we're paying. I would like to commend Pål Jonson for his reasoning on Article 346, that is to say the possibility of exempting projects considered important or essential for national security from competitive procurement. This is a threat to the Swedish defence industry. What characterises Sweden is that we are a very small buyer of defence equipment but in relation to our size perhaps the world's largest manufacturer of defence equipment. We have everything to gain from this becoming part of the European internal market. What the Swedish democrats express may almost be regarded as a mercantilist attitude in this area. As far as the budget is concerned, we in the Liberals believe that we were the first party to decide at a country meeting on a defence budget which would amount to at least 2% of GDP. That is correct – this responds to NATO's recommendation for its Member States. For some, this with 2% of GDP is an argument against NATO membership. But let me just say that anyone who is militaryly non-aligned will not be able to settle for 2%. Anyone who is militaryly non-aligned gives the impression that they will do everything on their own, and we are talking about a much higher share of the economy that needs to be invested in military and civil defence. Long before the House voted on the budget for 2018, 2019 and 2020 before Christmas, the investment in the Swedish Armed Forces with 18 billion was included in the first draft January agreement that came in the autumn. It may be a little ironic that social democrats and environmentalists have now promised center parties and liberals to implement the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. However, Madam President, this testifies to something that is fundamentally very important, namely a broad political consensus in this House on the need for substantial additional funds for our security. Madam President, I would like I'm sorry I've been running out of time. I would like to endorse reservations 1 and 18.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-422	Madam President, I would like The report is called Defence Policy. This is a rather broad area, and the speakers before me have clearly shown that it can be most of it. That may be the case – defence policy can be about both one and the other. I was going to take my step in the defence decision that we took in June 2015, i.e. what is now in force for the period 2016-2020. This decision is made on the basis of the international changes that have taken place in our neighbourhood and in the rest of the world. Some speakers have previously visited Russia, and it is clear that Russia's development has been significant. We have seen how aggressively and occupied areas have been behaved in Georgia. Perhaps it should have been the first warning bell, but the then government did not respond to this at all. Then, of course, there is Ukraine, which is an ongoing conflict – or war – in Europe and which is something very serious. With the developments we have seen, I understand that our Baltic neighbours, for example, are very concerned. But we have also met another enemy, who may not be the traditional: the Islamic State. Militaryly it is said to be defeated, but I am not so convinced that the Islamic State is completely defeated. I think there is a great risk that it will continue to spread and that it will appear in other countries. What's a little scary is that it's a middle ground between a terrorist organization and something that's more organized and like a state. One of the changes we have made is that we have started to rebuild the national defence in Sweden. We can be hindsight and say that we should never have phased it out, but that is what we did. We have started with the classic base plate, i.e. that the personal equipment for the individual soldier and sailor should be prioritised so that you feel that you can participate in this work in a wise way. We have also introduced military service because we have seen that we need to have a complement to the contract employees within the Swedish Armed Forces. I believe that this has been very well received by the Swedish people. We have also increased the number of exercises. We have conducted a great exercise, Aurora, for the first time in many years. The last one was when I myself made a rehearsal meeting, which says a little bit about that time has run away. The idea of this has been to increase the operational capacity of our armed forces, and at the same time the defence economy has been strengthened. But I think we should also be aware that this is a work that is not clear; there is much more to be done in this area. One might ask: Will it ever be finished? No, this is something we will be working on for quite a long time. Now we're working on the next defense decision. I understand that the Defense Committee is working quite intensively. I have seen Members running and working on it almost daily. The final report is now about two months away, and we must hope that it will go well. I think a question that you have to ask yourself in the Defence Preparation is how much more basspad we should be betting on and how much more exercise it should be. I know that it is a narrow sector when it comes to having a number of officers in place who can train conscripts and soldiers. But I also believe that this must be contrasted with the conflicts of the future. What will they look like? Here I think that we – even myself – sometimes get caught up in history. When I travel around the country and meet older gentlemen and discuss defence policy, there will be a lot of discussion that may be based on World War I or World War II – in the trench war, in some way. We get caught up in that kind of discussion. I don't think we're gonna get caught there. What do modern conflicts look like? Ukraine may be a good example of what it will look like in the future. It is a low-intensity war with a pro-Russian militia, i.e. a mix of soldiers and criminals or whatever you call them. It is also about the major disruption of infrastructure in these areas. It's a classic way to interfere with and eliminate different types of cyber threats. Here I think that Ukraine, for example, has a much easier time – one might be able to start its energy supply mechanically. I am more hesitant about how things look in Sweden; I think we are much more vulnerable in this area. It concerns electricity, telecommunications and medicine. Who is responsible for ensuring that we are able to deliver medicine and food? I think this could be a pretty serious situation. We see that interference occurs looking as close as possible. I don't want to go into the numbers. However, one thing that concerns us in this House is the denial of service attack that took place against the electoral authority during the election night, when the system was abandoned. So, sure, it's going on. If we were to be without electricity in this country, how long would it take for people to be without food? How far away is the looting of stores? How far away is the first death? I don't think it's about 24 hours. I'm afraid it's about hours. Consciousness about this is increasing. But we have much more to do, and we have a long way to go. I welcome the fact that government agencies and companies are working a lot on this and ÖB's information about cyber soldiers. I would also like to give a blow to research and development in this area, because this is something that is constantly developing. That's why I think it's pretty important. Madam President, I would like Now I have talked a lot about the conflict in Ukraine, cybersecurity, access to personnel, etc. I believe that we also need a defence that has access to advanced high-tech defence equipment and this at a reasonable cost. We should be proud of the expertise we have in Sweden. We can develop advanced, costly and efficient systems, and I believe that it is important that we protect them. A few examples are the Gripen project and submarine A21. However, as has already been mentioned in the debate, we have also purchased the Patriot system. We could have a mix. It is important that we protect the Swedish defence industry and can develop these projects. But that does not stop the Swedish defence industry exporting. It is important that we export to keep costs down, so that we can be supplied with the materials we are developing here. It is important to both solve staff issues and build up the Swedish national defence but also to have equipment with a high technical level. It is clear that the Defence Committee is facing a rather large task to produce a proposal. But I feel confident, because there are wise people in that group. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to touch on another matter, namely strategic infrastructure and strategic properties in Sweden. We have seen problems that have touched us in several ways. What was relevant a few years ago was how to handle No rd Stream and Swedish ports. Our neighbouring country and the Finnish archipelago outside Turku have bought up properties and made investments in ports and railways. It has also been some corporate purchases. After the investigation that has come, it is important to get decisions in place quickly, so that decisions of this kind are not passed on to others. I myself am an old council chairman, and municipal self-government is among the most beautiful words I know. But foreign policy, of course, is something for which the state should take responsibility. It is not a responsibility that must be placed in the lap of the municipalities. It needs to be dealt with quickly. It is important for us to be able to create a safer Sweden. In these words, Madam President, I shall conclude my speech and call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-445	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Ottosson, for many important parts that were highlighted in the speech! Not least the issues of total defence, cyber security, food and the base plate in the Swedish Armed Forces' operations were mentioned – extremely important parts. In view of the work on defence preparation, which was also mentioned in the speech, and the ambitions presented in the first report, my first question is: How much is the announced proposals of the Defence Committee worth in ongoing work? There are very many written and presented investigation proposals and assignments that the Defence Committee together and usually in broad agreement says is extremely important to get ahead with in order to develop our total defence at a time when the security policy situation has deteriorated. Then it is important to give a signal for the defense committee's continued work, now about two and a half months in the final phase of the negotiations, on the disposition of further mission proposals and priorities. How should we look at the proposals that will be presented from the perspective of the government parties in relation to the financial framework for the next defence-oriented period as a whole until 2025? What is the Social Democrats' concrete ambition and goal when it comes to what financial resources will be allocated to the Swedish Armed Forces and stated in the upcoming report of the Swedish Defence Committee?
i-a4ba94530076c58a-448	Madam President, I would like The defence committee came up with an interim report that concerns the civilian part, which I think is a very good report. There is much wisdom and knowledge that has been gained through it. I think you should make as much use of it as possible. Then, of course, it is important to wait for the entire report, because Swedish total defence is about a whole. I think it's very important that we work to get all the parts into it. It is clear that the members of the Defence Committee who come from the government parties have a large mandate from the government and that they are wise people. In the next step, of course, the report will be prepared by the Government, which will produce a proposal for a specialization decision in the Riksdag. But it is my ambition and, I believe, everyone's ambition and a tradition that we have had to achieve as much political unity on defence policy as possible. I think Sweden feels well about that. It also sends a clear signal to our neighbours, both our conscientious partners and also those with whom we do not cooperate, that there is political unity and stability in Sweden around this. We now have a defence budget, which I believe is supported by almost all parties. I think it is quite good that we have been able to reach that consensus. Then it was about the economy. We Social Democrats have not set a precise target, but we are quite clear that we need to increase the financial resources for defence. There will, of course, be a discussion of what needs there are, and they will then be weighed against other needs. However, the signal is clear that we need to increase the financial effort in order to build up Swedish defence and total defence capabilities.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-452	Madam President, I would like My experience with the negotiations in which I represented the Center Party both in 2015 and the years after on complements to the current orientation decisions is that the starting bid has not been presented from the government and Social Democratic sides, but has been a negotiation at every opportunity. In the run-up to the defence preparation negotiations, it is very clear from the government what is expected to be done in the work of the Defence Committee and that there will be a negotiation of the economic conditions, with the possibility of getting as broad an anchor as possible. Given what we have heard in the past about transparency and being right at the end, it is important to know what the biggest government party has the ambitions. So far, I have not heard any figures, nor in today's debate. My second question was about the first interim report on resilience and on total defence work, which is also a very important part of the 2015 decision on defence orientation, and that this should begin during this period of orientation. It is important that we start with it and build on it in the first report of the Swedish Defence Committee. It is about very clear and important activities in many areas of Swedish society. The question is how long the government will have to prepare the various proposals. Usually you get a response that there is a preparation work going on at the Government Office. Few of these concrete proposals have moved on to the workshop, which concerns me from our genuine work in the Defence Committee in a broad constructive spirit with everyone present at the table.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-456	Madam President, I would like I am not in the Defence Committee, so it is difficult to answer for the Members there and how the discussions have gone and what the mandates look like. The whole period of defence, however, has been marked by the fact that the Social Democrats wanted to make broad deals with as many parties as possible, even with the economy. We have no other attitude today than that we need to add more money to the defence and that we want as broad a deal as possible. We would like to see almost all parties involved in them. This report has arrived. Yes, we should investigate and make proposals. However, we are in the difficult situation that six months have passed without us being able to do anything because the parliamentary situation has been unclear, that is, what the government should look like and who will be behind it and who will support it. This, of course, has delayed the time. However, my view is that the ambition of Peter Hultqvist and the other ministers is to speed up the work as much as possible and not to investigate for too long so that it can come to a workshop. But a good investigation should of course be in place first. It is also a requirement that it be investigated before proposals are submitted to the Riksdag.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-460	Madam President, I would like I used a large part of my speaking time to talk about underfunding. This is an issue which is constantly under discussion in the field of defence policy. Just a few weeks ago, a large seminar was held under the heading, where does the money go? This was about the difficulty of assessing the cost picture in the field of defence. In my speech, I pointed out the possibility that a total defence inspection could help to ensure the quality of the economy so that we do not do this again. If we have decided that for a period of time we will be able to manage a certain organisation and then fail it, it will be very difficult for the defence committee and the parliament to build on the military defence. I would have been very interested in an answer to that question. In his speech, Mattias Ottosson indicated that the alliance government should have woken up already during the war in Georgia in 2008. Let me just remind you that if the alternative budgets of the Social Democrats had gone through during the alliance years, military defence would have had 5 billion less to move around with. Madam President, I would like Every time I listen to Minister for Trade Ann Linde, she stresses Sweden's dependence on exports and how important it is that free trade is maintained in the world. Yet Mattias Ottosson says that we should protect the Swedish defence industry. In this particular area, what is it that does not apply to the general values that the Social Democrats have with regard to trade in general?
i-a4ba94530076c58a-464	Madam President, I would like I am basically a friend of free trade, perhaps especially when we speak of defence policy and Swedish defence. It is clear that relations with other countries and peace and freedom are built primarily through free trade and, in the next step, diplomatic relations and defence and security. But Allan Widman's question was probably more about Swedish defence industry. I think that in a total defence perspective we should protect the Swedish defence industry. There's a lot of expertise there. Major projects such as the Gripen project and other aviation projects have been developed before that. There are very few countries in the world that have our skills, and we will take advantage of that. The same applies to the competence of underwater activities. We have also identified management systems as such. There are perhaps more such areas, and I do not think that one should be afraid to point that out. This is important in order to support us in a crisis situation, but it obviously needs to be complemented by dealing with other countries. However, I do not see the conflict. Sweden buys from the Swedish defence industry and others. That the Swedish defence industry can export and have the opportunity to do so is also important – of course within the regulatory framework and legislation we have in this area. As far as the economy is concerned, a recurring problem has been that we constantly have to add money to the defence because it has not sued. It is therefore important for the Swedish Defence Committee to take on board the reports that Statskontoret and the Swedish Financial Control Agency have come up with, and a lesson for us politicians will be to present fully funded proposals in the Chamber.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-468	Madam President, I would like However, this is something that we have almost never succeeded in doing in Sweden. The problem is complex. Already at the government level, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration and the Swedish Armed Forces themselves are pressing in as much as they can in any way in the desire to expand, get new, convert materials and so on. Then this continues at the political level. When we negotiate, everyone should have their little candy bag, and then you push in even more. I believe that a total defence inspection would guarantee the quality of the defence bill from an economic point of view before the bill goes to Parliament. But I understand that I am not going to get an answer to this from the Social Democrats today. Mattias Ottosson points out that we must protect our underwater systems, our combat aircraft technology and our sensors. With this list, it is also a considerable part of the Swedish materiel budget that is protected. The problem is that if Sweden protects its industry, France, Germany, the UK and everyone else will continue to protect their industry. I do not understand why we do not see the possibility of transferring defence equipment to part of the EU's internal market. We have almost everything to gain from it and nothing to lose.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-472	Madam President, I would like It is always a problem in negotiations that everyone has their little heart issue, and we are happy to end up at a detailed level. I think everyone would be well off if we were at an overall level when we negotiate. Then it might not be as cost-driven. It has cost more, and we have had to add money. Of course, as decision-makers and politicians, you should respect taxpayers' money and manage it wisely. We're going to take this to heart and take it into our work. We need to get forecasts and make demands that the feedback that takes place is correct. Let me return to the Swedish defence industry. It has many times cooperation and ownership that is foreign, which I think is important. But I still don't see the conflict that Allan Widman paints. That the Swedish Armed Forces to a large extent buy material from the Swedish defence industry is good. We're also going to buy from more people, and we're going to export. For me, it is an essential part of the Swedish total defence and the Swedish defence policy that we protect the Swedish defence industry. It's as simple as that.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-475	Madam President, I would like Today, as many have said, we are debating the Defence Committee's report on Defence Policy. The report includes the motions that were received during the exercise last autumn and descriptions of how they meet the agreements we have in the Swedish Parliament today on defence policy and the investigations that have been set up and are now being carried out in anticipation of the final report of the Defence Committee, which will be an important basis for the preparation of the next defence policy proposal. As everyone knows, the Riksdag's decision from 2015 on Defence Policy orientation – Sweden's defence 2016– 2020 is the basis for the current focus and organisation. The Decision set out the objectives of the military and civil defence as well as the direction of military units in the Armed Forces Organisation in 2016. The committee then stated that the single most important thing during the period was to increase the operational capacity of the armed forces and to ensure the overall capability of the total defence. We haven't made it, but that's where we're going. In December 2017, as previously heard today, the Swedish Defence Committee's interim report Resistance – The focus of the total defence and the design of the civil defence 2021 – 2025 was presented. The final report of the defence committee with an overall assessment of the development of security policy and its implications for Swedish defence and security policy will be presented in May 2019 and will form the basis for a new orientation proposal for our common defence policy. As I understand it, the defence committee has worked intensively for a few years on this important task. You go deep into the questions. Many of you who sit here today are in the preparation and know that everything has been developed in a joint process between the parties in the Riksdag. I look forward with great interest to take part in this work and then, together with the other parties in the Swedish Parliament, make wise, long-term decisions on Sweden's future defence policy direction. Authorities and activities in general and the defence especially, with their large investment costs, need long-term rules of play. In a changing world with unprecedented technological developments, we need solid ground before making long-term important decisions. As I see it, the work of the Defense Committee gives us this. In Sweden, we have worked for and succeeded for a long time in creating stability around such important defence issues. My hope and my conviction are that we continue to do so. As a basis on which to stand, the Swedish Defence Committee will give us a picture of the possible consequences for the Swedish Armed Forces' military organisation. The proposals will highlight the war organisation and military capabilities both in the national defence perspective and for the opportunities to contribute to international peace-promoting efforts. The interim report Resistance – The focus of the total defence and the design of the civil defence in 2021-2025 was welcome and received with great interest when it came. The modern concept of total defence with renewed commitment to civil defence is welcome. I visited SOS Alarm the other day and got to know very interesting information about how to interact in crisis but also how necessary it is to repeat practice together in order to be able to collaborate smoothly. You need to have confidence in each other in the event of a crisis, and that is what you form during practice and training together. Madam President, I would like A crucial factor for the future in terms of safety and security is the extent to which we reduce our CO2 emissions. We need to be much better at preventing climate change and reducing our CO2 emissions so that we stay below the 1.5-degree target. It will be hard enough to deal with the changes that arise with it. Climate change will cause even more conflicts in the world and more weather-related crisis situations, and we are now moving towards a three-degree warming of our home, our planet. We won't be able to handle that. We urgently need to reduce CO2 emissions and, at the same time, work more with adjustments to society to cope better with future floods, fires, storms and droughts. As a result of climate change, we will be affected more often and by more extreme weather. The fires of the past summer show how important a well-functioning civil defence is. Here, our total defense has a great and important work to continue to develop. We need to support them in this work, including by reducing CO2 emissions, so that it is possible for these heroes to deal with the crisis situations of the future. By 2020, the big total defence exercise, TFÖ 2020, is planned, which will give us even more knowledge of how the total defence is doing today. The exercise, which focuses on how civil defence and the Armed Forces can collaborate, will not give us all the knowledge needed to know how we can cope with extreme weather events or cyber attacks on our infrastructure or how we defend ourselves against fake news and other threats to our democracy, but it will be an important part. The objectives of our security work – to protect the lives and health of the population, to safeguard the functionality of society and to safeguard our ability to uphold our fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights – I sincerely believe and hope that we all share. I also hope that, when we have taken note of the final report of the Defence Committee, we will agree on how to do exactly what is in our goals because it is simply the best way forward. I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-490	Madam President, I would like I have a standard question. In the Defence Committee we are talking about 1.5% of bnp by 2025. You are now part of it together with the Social Democrats, who have answered the question in a good way. Do you share the views of those who have been expressed here? Does your party support this by 1.5 percent? Is this anchored in your party?
i-a4ba94530076c58a-491	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Roger Richtoff! We speak, as I have heard, not percentages in our party. We think like this: why are we talking about percentages of GDP in this particular area? Should we not discuss how much it costs to defend ourselves? So I can answer no to the question.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-494	Madam President, I would like We're linking the money to the number of war units. So there is a link between the 1.5% and what we get for the money. We're getting a number of listed reinforcements of the military units. So there is a connection between them. The reason I asked the question is that you can back down a few years and see what it looked like then, before the Liberals entered the Implementation Group and destroyed the system and the defence. At the time, there were no natural links for which the Social Democrats are now being attacked. True, this can be done because of many things, but this becomes a little too strong. I had hoped for a change in your mind that you really take the Defense Committee seriously. What war units do we want? That ability is described by them. For this there is a pot of money, hence my question as to whether this is anchored. But it's okay.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-497	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Roger Richtoff! As I said, we support the development of total defence. We certainly do, because we know it is necessary. We want to focus most of our resources on civil defence, as we see that climate change is a far greater threat than the Russians. However, we will not talk about any percentages. At least we are not prepared to do this today.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-500	Madam President, I would like My starting point in this debate on defence and total defence is Gotland, which is perhaps not so surprising. Gotland is very appropriate to take as an example because it works as a Minisverige. We have our island location naturally, but in a war situation Sweden would also get an island location, a demarcation, which makes Gotland's example really relevant to the rest of Sweden. We have learned a few things in recent years. I thought I'd share them with you. First of all, I would like to say that we in Gotland are very happy to have a re-established military capability. That is excellent, and it naturally raises the threshold for attack. But it also increases its own defence and total defence capabilities on Gotland. I very much hope that the forthcoming defence committee will land in that we will build on the expansion on Gotland. The core line of the Center Party is that we should have good day-to-day preparedness, because it leads to better emergency preparedness. That's our main point. Gotland has been appointed pilot county for the total defense. This is something that the County Administrative Board operates very successfully on Gotland. You're not more than halfway in that job, but some conclusions can be drawn this far. What we can see is that we have started to build a much better collaboration between different actors. Better collaboration is really the foundation of everything. Another conclusion is that you become very dependent on private actors. Today, much of the public service is spent on private operators. Most telecommunications operators, carriers and wholesalers are actually completely privately operated. Something that also becomes very clear on Gotland is our dependence on communications. When the ferry does not go – and it may well be exactly the same for Sweden in a war or crisis – the grocery store is empty in three to five days for most of it. An investigation shows that the Gotlanders will not starve to death as we have our own food production. But we will have a completely different type of food supply compared to what we are used to. As far as the fuel supply is concerned, we previously had a system of stockholding, which is now decommissioned. Lack of fuel will be one of the greatest effects quite quickly. Madam President, I would like One of the great lessons is the power outages we've had. Yesterday, when I was in Old Town, I felt almost like a Gotlandian, because then there was a shortage of electricity for an hour and a half. Last year we had 13 total breaks on Gotland. The Gotlanders learn to live without power. That's not good. We've had it so half a day sometimes. This means that there must also be a clear and strengthened infrastructure, such as a third electricity cable to Gotland. You cannot rely only on the two investments from the 1980s. However, the great effect and the learning of power outages is another, namely that communications stop. Everyone understands that you can't communicate via computers if you don't have power, because they depend on electricity. But mobile phones also stop. In practice, mobile communications and networks usually stop within less than half an hour, and almost all communications today are based on mobile phones. At the same time, we have disconnected and decommissioned the copper networks. This means that we have very little communication possibilities, which has also affected security alarms and security alarms. I will conclude with two other small details that are very important. We're talking about a manned air traffic controller tower on Gotland. That's what other government agencies want to put in the mainland. How does it work, do you think, if you don't have communication options? Now a discussion is beginning about running the island's reserve power, which we have very well built on Gotland. But how do you think it would work to control it and drive it from the mainland if the island were cut off? Finally, I would like to say that I have great respect for the fact that it is very difficult to imagine what happens if you have not experienced it yourself. Therefore, I think that one should really take the example of Gotland. We've experienced everything that happens when you don't have power and communication. Therefore, it is good to listen further to what Gotland has done.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-511	Madam President, I would like I had not planned this speech, but I would like to respond to something that was said by one of the Members, Allan Widman, who is not in the Chamber. He talked about mercantilism and so on. We Swedish democrats, according to Allan Widman, as I understood it, would be in favour of introducing tariffs and having an approach that was common in the 19th century, that one's profit is the other's loss. This is bullshit. I would like to respond to that, and that is why I am standing here in the speaker's chair again. We are in favour of free trade. The fact that a Member is coming with this type of attack and then leaving the premises, Madam President, is a little bit of a response to me. I fully support the speakers from the Social Democrats when it comes to investing in the Swedish defence industry. This does not mean that we should not trade with other defence industries. But by investing in the Swedish defence industry, we maintain the great expertise that exists in many areas. This, in turn, will mean that, with the solid expertise we have in various areas, we can participate in a completely different way in the framework of defence cooperation in the EU and develop this. The problem is particularly France, which benefits its own defence industry, places all orders there and is definitely opposed to Sweden's view, which is driven by the Minister for Defence, namely that we must also have a third-country perspective. Our industry is built in this way – in a completely different way than in France. This drives the Minister of Defence, as I see it, in a very good way.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-513	Madam President, I would like We Moderates naturally support our reservations, and I support reservations 4 and 10. I will touch on both these reservations a little later in my speech. I am pleased that a united Social Committee is proposing to the Government a declaration that the Government should consider bringing forward the date for the entry into force of the provisions of the National List of Medicinal Products Act. For me, the biggest benefit of a national list of medicines is that it should be linked to the medical record systems and thus contribute to increased patient safety. A few weeks ago I had the privilege of visiting Sci Life Lab at Karolinska Institutet. It was an extremely rewarding and interesting visit. To be able to tailor treatment for many diagnoses in the near future was unreal some ten years ago. After I worked with health care issues throughout my working life as an elected representative, nurse and manager, I am pleased that during this visit a number of times it was suggested that the most important thing is to be able to make the right diagnosis. If you do not have the correct diagnosis, how can you get proper treatment? When it comes to getting care on time, it looks different in the country. It could depend on where in the country you live. Only in the last week have there been big headlines on the headlines about cancer patients standing in line and not getting their care on time. This is unacceptable and should be debated as a matter of urgency. What is less discussed but should be given equal scope is that, unfortunately, access to medicines also differs in the country, and there are no queues to follow here. This is not a new phenomenon. Madam President, I would like Let me tell you about an event a few years back. A relative has been prescribed biological drugs for his psoriatic arthritis by his rheumatologist in Halland. This is something that has been prescribed for a long time in my home region, Halland. This type of medicine is an injection, a syringe, which the patient self-administers, i.e. gives itself, usually every two weeks. These shots were out, and my relative went to the pharmacy to pick up new ones. My relative, who works in the neighboring county, went to a pharmacy near his work. When he got to the pharmacy, there were no syringes there. In response, he found that this drug treatment was not prescribed in the neighbouring county. For me, this is an unequal drug treatment. A syringe is certainly expensive – it costs several thousand crowns. But with this drug treatment, my family member was able to continue working full - time and not dependant on inpatient care. There is also another aspect of this example, linked to reservation 4. This injection must be kept cool, usually in a refrigerator, and it is not yet free to return medicines that are refrigerated. I fully understand that pharmacies cannot provide expensive medicines that they are unable to return, but once again it will be the patient who suffers because the medicine is not available. As I said, this event has been a few years on the back, but the reality still shows that it is for many patients. It still depends on where you live if you are receiving treatment on time or if the medicine is in stock or in the worst case is not even prescribed in the county where you live. It is unequal and unacceptable. Madam President, I would like As has been pointed out earlier, the most important thing is to get the right diagnosis in order to get proper drug treatment. This is of course most important for the patient but also for our environment. Exposing your body to drugs that harm our environment and have no effect on the condition is both unsmart and irresponsible. In today's society, most people are enlightened and read carefully the table of contents of food products. With eco-labelling on our pharmaceutical packaging for medicines that have proven to have a negative environmental impact, I believe that awareness of the risk of deterioration of the environment is becoming greater. Most of our leftover medicines are returned to the pharmacy, and that is good. The rest mainly end up in household garbage, and a small part is flushed down the toilet and sink. But the biggest source of drugs and drug residues in the environment is actually ourselves when substances that break down in the body end up in the drain. Again: With the right diagnosis and thus proper drug treatment and more awareness of the content it will not only be best for our patients but we also contribute to a better environment. Finally, great progress is being made in pharmaceuticals and not least in Sweden, and we should be proud of that. Many diagnoses and conditions we can now handle and cure, and that is gratifying. But even the everyday things discussed at home at the kitchen table must work. I last read this weekend in Gothenburg-Posten that Alvedon suppositorium given to children was not only out of pharmacies in Gothenburg but what I understood throughout the country. With regard to this day-to-day, we must ensure that we have systems that work. For us Moderates, your place of residence must not determine whether you will have access to medication treatments or whether the medicine is in stock or, in the worst case, not even prescribed in your county. I think, Madam President, that Sweden can do better.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-526	Madam President, I would like More and more children and young adults in our country are suffering from anxiety, depression, and sleeping difficulties. These developments are, to say the least, worrying. It is a development that will have serious consequences for our young people where political decisions and the political will to act will be crucial for their future. We can already see the consequences of early mental disorders where young people treated for anxiety and depression within specialised care have an increased risk of prolonged illness, ill health and impaired functional ability. Madam President, I would like Last week, the Swedish Medical Products Agency published its report on the survey of Melatonin use in children and adolescents. The report shows that there has been an increased prescription of the medicine, which is a sleeping pill. The report also showed that a majority of children and adolescents treated with Melatonin also have a concurrent prescription with other psychopharmaceuticals. As mental illness grows in the younger generation of the population, we can generally see an increase in the prescription of psychopharmaceuticals. Particularly alarming is the increase in the prescription of benzodiazepines, which is used primarily in the treatment of anxiety problems and sleeping difficulties. Treating patients under 18 years of age with benzodiazepines, i.e. drugs, is contrary to existing recommendations. The recommendations are based, among other things, on the risk of dependence and the serious side effects that the medicine may result from. Nevertheless, there is an increase. In a study prepared by Karolinska Institutet, we can see that a large proportion of young people have been prescribed drugs of this type for a long time, which is in breach of our national guidelines. The study also shows that 65 percent of the prescriptions in the studied group have been in primary care and by other caregivers who do not have specialist expertise in psychiatry. Prescription of this type of preparation requires specialized knowledge and understanding of risks and long-term effects. Therefore, a culture in which patients are confronted with inadequate competence risks jeopardising patient safety. The importance of follow-up and adequate therapy supported by therapy is crucial for the outcome of treatment. Therefore, we cannot ignore the importance of the right competence and clinical experience in the assessment and treatment of patients suffering from mental illness. It has also been shown that there is an increased risk of suicidal thoughts in children and adolescents during the first few weeks of treatment with antidepressants. This is another incredibly important reason why pharmacological treatment should be carried out under supervision and with systematic follow-up. To allow psychopharmaceuticals as an individual treatment method to be the practice in Swedish healthcare is not sustainable. Prescription of this type of medicinal product without additional treatment and serious follow-up must be called into question. Care should therefore be quality reviewed in relation to the prescription of psychopharmaceuticals in relation to treatment and follow-up. We need to focus on the right results, and that is recovery from mental illness. This, in turn, requires complete care that is individually adapted. We must also recognise the importance of preventive action and value that work considerably higher. Madam President, I would like Young children should not need to take strong medicines to sleep. Young adults should not need to take anti-anxiety medicines to cope with everyday life. Existing guidelines and recommendations clearly do not have a desirable effect as we are regularly informed of serious shortcomings in their compliance. The increased prescription of psychopharmaceuticals must be problematised. We need to ensure compliance with recommendations and national guidelines and also work to ensure that they are complied with. With this in mind, the Swedish Democrats are calling for a clear strategy to deal with increased drug use in the case of children and young people suffering from mental illness. We believe that the stated goal should be a reduced medicinal product medicinal product and a treatment practice where long-term treatment with a focus on better mental health and recovery from mental illness should be standardised and quality assured in Swedish healthcare. We in the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations, but for the time being, I only call for reservations Nos 5 and 12.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-540	Madam President, I would like To be able to debate and discuss pharmaceutical issues is perhaps one of the most exciting in the area for which the Committee on Social Affairs has to take responsibility. There is a great deal of progress here. If we only look over the past five years, we can see how a disease such as hepatitis C, inflammation of the liver, which was previously a chronic disease that often led to liver failure and perhaps death, today can be treated. Up to 90 percent of those affected can become completely healthy. Another area is malignant melanoma. It's one of the most feared cancer conditions we've ever had. In the past, it was actually a death sentence if it could not be operated on time. Today, thanks to successful medicines, we have an opportunity to treat and perhaps even cure there as well. This is tremendously pleasing progress, which means a great deal to the people who have been affected by these serious diseases. The problem that we have in Sweden is that when the great progress comes, they do not all reach it. We don't have equal care. There is a lot to do here. We have received an NT advice for new therapies that should be the national level where decisions are made about who should have access to this type of treatment. The instruments need to be tightened up further. It must be that, at national level, we can quickly make decisions when a new medicine comes in if something is to be used. Furthermore, Madam President, we must be able to follow up and ensure that it is actually used from Kiruna in the north to Ystad in the south. There is a need for follow-up and clear directives, but also for us to have proposals and ideas on how to finance. Not infrequently, the new drugs are very expensive. The medical investigation under the leadership of Toivo Heinsoo just over a month ago has come up with a very interesting proposal. This means that the costs of new therapies during a transition period will be taken by the state, while county councils, regions and health authorities may take the costs for the others. This also means that it would be possible to achieve greater equality in healthcare in Sweden, where it would not be like some people today suspect: that poor county councils cannot afford the new, expensive therapies. A lot is happening here, and it is an extremely exciting area. But it's a sword with two edges. The other side is all the people who suffer from illness and perhaps death due to incorrect drug treatment. It is estimated that up 3 000 people die every year in Sweden because of incorrect drug treatment. When it comes to emergency departments and the posts in our congested emergency hospitals, it is between 6 and 16 percent that are directly caused by incorrect drug treatment. Here, too, there is much to do. The most affected group are the most ill elderly. Medicines that have not been tested in this group are not rarely used, and more than five-year-olds are still not given the right to regular drug briefings. It has been shown to be an effective instrument that can reduce the risk of misused drug treatment in the elderly in a very significant way. There is legislation, but it is not being complied with. There's a lot more to do here. I would therefore like to support reservation 6, which addresses the problem of the elderly and the treatment of medicines and the great damage it can cause. We have some really big problems ahead of us in this area. One of them is something that this House caused when, just over a year ago, we decided to tighten up the requirements for pharmaceutical competence in pharmacies. A majority of the House said it would do that. This goes directly against developments in health care in general. We are trying to remove territory, and we are trying to ensure that the individual's skills can be assessed on the spot to see who will do what in healthcare. But we are pointing out the pharmacies in particular and saying that there must be a pharmaceutical competence in order to do one thing than the other. Legislation will only come into force in 2020, and the great threat is that we already have a large shortage of pharmacists today. Then this legislation comes on top of that, which will mean that there will be an acute problem as there will be no pharmacists. I see in my mind that if you do not take action – and then it is not about rapidly training pharmacists, because it is a long training – it will have the consequence that a number of pharmacies have to close down. This will be done because of a decision taken here in Parliament, which five parties supported. I am very concerned about this, because it will result in a more unequal distribution of medicines in the country via pharmacies. I will say a few more words about what has led to the announcement in the committee's report. This is about the national list of medicines. The first time this was discussed, debated and actually decided was more than ten years ago. At that time the work was started by the alliance government to bring about what was then called a national ordination database. Then this has come up against obstacles time and again, but now we are almost there. We have decided on legislation that allows for a national list of medicines, and we can have it in place in just a few years' time. In the committee report we say that this should be done urgently, and I can agree with that. However, in the choice between patient safety and implementing and launching a national list of medicines that is not ready and which, above all, the medical authorities and clinics are not prepared to receive, patient safety is the most important. If we have been waiting since 2008 to get the national list of medicines, I would like to wait another month instead of having an accident with regard to the medicinal product medicinal product. It would have very serious consequences. Safety comes first, and then, of course, it is a matter of ensuring that the national list of medicines is put in place as quickly as possible. I therefore call for the approval of reservation 6, and I also support the other C reservations without calling for their approval.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-555	Madam President, I would like Do you remember when you couldn't buy nasal spray or aspirin in the evening or during the weekend because the city's only pharmacy had closed? It is difficult to imagine today, but that was the case in Sweden until ten years ago. The Christian Democrats' recipe to improve access to pharmacies and over-the-counter medicines was the re-regulation of the pharmacy market, which was carried out by the alliance government in 2009. Today it is possible to buy over-the-counter medicines in grocery stores, and at the same time the number of physical and internet-based pharmacies has increased. This has improved accessibility. Every day more than 330 000 people visit a pharmacy in Sweden. In total, pharmacies had over 120 million customer visits in 2017. As a result, pharmacists meet patients from health care services more often than health care professionals do. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that it is high time for the next pharmacy reform. Apoteken and their highly trained staff are an important but under-utilised resource in the healthcare chain. In order to strengthen care and short-term care queues, we believe that pharmacies, which have good availability, generous opening hours and higher education staff, should be given an increased role in the care chain. We therefore want to give pharmacists the opportunity to conduct structured drug talks even with people who are newly ill with chronic diseases. We want to let pharmacies take note of the test results from the healthcare system that are relevant to the drug treatment. But we also want to give them the opportunity to perform simpler laboratory activities such as allergy tests, blood glucose control and blood pressure measurements etc. Of course, the same quality requirements for execution and interpretation as in healthcare should apply. We would also like to see a new category of medicines, a so-called pharmaceutical range. Selected medicines currently subject to prescription would become non-prescription provided that they are sold behind the counter in pharmacies and together with advice from pharmacists. For example, the Farmaceut range could contain ointments in case of eye inflammation and eczema, potency medicines and medicines with higher strengths, which are currently non-prescription only in lower strengths. Medicines with a negative environmental impact may also be included in the pharmaceutical range in order to increase knowledge of these. We also want to examine the benefits of the pharmacy medicinal product. Pharmaceutical medicinal product means that pharmacists can extend certain prescriptions in strict forms and after special training. Examples of medicines that may be included include oral contraceptives, insulin and medicines for high blood pressure. This is a system that is about to be introduced in Denmark, and we believe that the benefits should also be investigated in Sweden. By thus strengthening the role of pharmacies in the care chain, health care is relieved, which means that the long-term care queues can be reduced. Madam President, I would like While it is important to develop the role of pharmacies in health care, it is important to safeguard the condition of pharmacies in order to run a sustainable business. For small pharmacies and pharmacies in rural areas, it is therefore important that medicines that require refrigeration and freezer storage should also be subject to the right of return. Since this was announced to the government already last year, it is now high time that the government quickly returned to Parliament with a proposal on how to secure this. From 1 July 2020, only pharmacists will be allowed to perform most of the steps in the administration of prescription medicines. We Christian Democrats are critical of this detailed management because we believe that it will not lead to any improvement in quality. Already the current regulatory framework for prescription processing, where some parts are delegated to trained pharmacists, ensures that skills and experience are used correctly. Moreover, there is already a shortage of pharmacists. We will therefore follow the government's efforts to ensure that the new law does not have negative consequences for skills provision and accessibility. Madam President, I would like Today, the chances of surviving a difficult diagnosis depend on where in the country you live. One reason for this is that each county council or region, as it may be called today, decides whether patients in their part of the country should have access to the most effective medicines or not. For us Christian Democrats, it goes without saying that your place of residence should not be crucial to whether you receive the best care or not. We therefore want to abolish the 21 regions and let the state take over the main responsibility for health care. However, pending such reorganisation, increased national responsibility for increased and more equal access to healthcare and medicines is required. We Christian Democrats therefore believe that a national recommendation based on ethical balances should be drawn up to guide today's 21 principals in their priority work on the relationship between the cost of orphan medicinal products, for example, and the benefit of patients linked to treatment. A national list of medicines is another important step in achieving better safety and safety for the patient in the handling of medicines. Through a national list of medicinal products, the prescriber can have direct access to complete information on the patient's prescribed and collected medicinal products. This obviously increases patient safety compared to the current system, where it is not uncommon for a doctor to be unable to access sometimes vital information because previous care interventions have taken place in another region. The initiative for a national drug list was taken by the Christian Democrats under the alliance government. However, the legislative proposal has taken too long, and its implementation will not be fully completed until 1 June 2020. However, it is very urgent that the law should enter into force as soon as possible. That is why, Madam President, we Christian Democrats are in favour of the committee's proposal for an announcement under paragraph 1, in which it approves the KD's motion on the possibility of reviewing whether it is possible to bring forward the entry into force of the law. Otherwise, we Christian Democrats support all our reservations in the report, but out of respect for the time in this House, I only call for our reservation 1 in paragraph 3.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-567	Madam President, I would like As usual, the Christian Democrats have many interesting proposals, but there are two things I have reacted to a little. I would like to hear Pia Steensland explain in more detail how they are viewed in relation to patient safety. One applies to the prescription of medicinal products for chronic diseases and others. These include oral contraceptives and medicines for COPD as an example, but a number of clinical investigations are required when prescribing or renewing prescriptions for these medicines. It is not just a matter of renewing the recipe, but other measures are also required. Even for something as simple, may seem, as the pill, one must always check the blood pressure to ensure that the woman does not suffer from too high blood pressure. In addition, there is reason not least to have other conversations at the youth clinics with the young woman who is on the pill. I find it difficult to see how KD thinks this will work in relation to a coherent healthcare chain. I also wonder how, in a situation where we have a shortage of pharmacists, pharmacists should deal with blood pressure controls, spirometry tests and so on and have the opportunity to prescribe medicines. The second thing I have doubts about is the extension of pharmaceutical services. Apoteken already has great opportunities to conduct analytical activities. This can already be done today, and a lot of advice can also be provided – it is already largely in pharmacies today. However, the proposal for increased pharmaceutical services, and not least the one that is operated, is based on taking money from healthcare and spending it in pharmacies to allow them time to do so. I find it difficult to see how this will work when we now see a major primary care reform that is about strengthening primary care and holding the close care for the patient together – in a situation where it will suddenly become so that some parts should not be done in primary care but in one or other pharmacy nearby.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-572	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Anders! Of course, patient safety should not be compromised. We want this to be investigated and we want to look at the possibility of a pharmacist's medicinal product as used in some countries, where there is good experience. Of course, there should be no doubt about patient safety – never before – but we can see that with the national primary care reform there is an excellent opportunity to review how pharmacies can become another strong link throughout the chain. Just as you say, Anders, it is a matter of transferring certain funds from primary care to pharmacies. We think it's good. Is it that some parts can be performed during the extended opening hours of pharmacies and that you get a better availability than you have in primary care, we think it absolutely should be considered. Of course, it should be investigated how this should be done, but we think it is an excellent idea to try. There are competent staff. I myself am a pharmacist, and I believe that many colleagues in pharmacies out there want a little more qualified tasks to complement the highly qualified work they are doing today. I therefore believe that this can be a positive element.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-575	Madam President, I would like I also see that pharmacies will have a much more important role in the future, in a number of different areas, but it is in these very two parts that I feel strong scepticism. If the pharmacists behind the counter are going to start prescribing the pill and also medicine to patients with COPD and other chronic diseases – without the ability to control blood pressure at the same time, do spirometry tests and everything else – I see the risk of further fragmented care for those patient groups that need much more support. Rather, I see that pharmacists should devote themselves to the things where they have a deep competence. The second core issue is precisely that pharmacies are pushing for an expanded mission. There is nothing to prevent it, but the problem is funding. In a situation where pharmacies are to start taking tasks that are currently in primary care, such as inhalation technology and so on, it must of course also be financed. This means that money must be taken from primary care, and I see that there too we risk getting a situation where you do not create added value for patients but rather break up care chains by picking money from primary care and putting it in pharmacies without having full control of what it is they should do. How do you ensure that patients who need this get it in the very pharmacy they go to? How does the feedback to the responsible nurse and doctor take place? I therefore see that these two specific proposals, which are often put forward by the Christian Democrats, are something that can lead to much greater problems in healthcare than we have today – and above all involve risks in terms of patient safety. That is why I wanted to know a little more about how the Christian Democrats intended this. One can of course say, as Pia Steensland does now, that an investigation may consider this further, but if one tries to have a holistic approach to healthcare, I think it is important to think about the care chain from start to finish.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-579	Madam President, I would like Absolutely, it's very important. That is what we mean – that we need to see the opportunity. You know yourself, Anders, that access to general practitioners in primary care is far too low today. If you can relieve the primary care to a certain amount of money and spend it on pharmacy, we mean that you make primary care more accessible to those who have the greatest need for care. That is why we think it is important to extend the possibilities of pharmacies and pharmacists. We will investigate exactly how this is to be done, but there is no doubt that patient safety should be first. However, we believe that there are certain categories of patients who can be adequately helped by strengthening the role of pharmacies.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-581	Madam President, I would like 37 years – so short was a person's life expectancy just 200 years ago. We died of nutritional deficiency, polio, diphtheria, accidents, flu, TB, and cot fever. We died because Sweden was poor and because our knowledge was not enough. However, our knowledge and prosperity have gradually grown stronger. Today we live much longer, and we live well. Much of the gratitude for this needs to be directed at all those who have researched, tried and manufactured drugs, as well as those who prescribe them and those who sell them. The medicines are also getting better. Only antibiotics and vaccines, Madam President, save millions of lives each year. Life-threatening ulcer surgery is barely needed anymore-- it's enough with pills. Sudden strokes that in the past caused paralysis or inevitable death can both be prevented and, once they occur, treated. Today, people with severe rheumatic diseases can go to work, and people with cancer, who previously had an expected life of less than a year, can laugh at death. None of this is, of course, something we have received for free. All of this requires hard work and wise political proposals. We must continue to move forward, Madam President, and that is exactly what liberal pharmaceutical policy does. I therefore support the Liberals' reservations in this area. We have proposals that give us just new, better medicines and safer drug treatment – proposals that give us all effective and better medicines no matter how old we are, no matter where in the country we live or how unusual the particular disease we suffer happens to be. This, of course, requires more research, as we propose. This requires more clinical trials and competence development in healthcare. It requires national guidelines in health care that are not freely chosen work, Madam President, which is of course the only acceptable thing. Good care and equality across the country should be a matter of course. Today we still have too little follow-up on drug use. We have too little knowledge of elderly people's treatments, even though it is older people who are the most ill. We have too little knowledge of how drugs work in combination with other medicines, even though the sickest people of course do not suffer from just one disease. We still have too much likelihood of confusion. How is an older lady supposed to know which of these boxes with different names that actually contain the same medicine? The risk of taking both is obvious. All of this requires changes in laws, Madam President. Our medicines must be better and safer. They must be more secure for patients, and they must also be more secure for people around the patient. A rich country like ours cannot import with good conscience drugs that threaten birds with extinction, which cause factories to release toxins so that children and adults in the countries where these medicines are made become ill. That is not acceptable, and it is a very high price for our cheap medicine. Nor can we shamelessly continue to release drug residues into our own seas and lakes. Clean water should be clean. I realize that there is no quick fix for this. It's not easy. At the same time, however, it is very promising to see how much progress is constantly being made, how much consensus we have here in this House on these issues, most recently the national list of medicines. There I am very grateful that the Liberals and Christian Democrats' proposal to make sure that this must be implemented even more as soon as possible seems to be approved later today. I am also very pleased, Madam President, with any prediction that the expected life expectancy has so far been exceeded just after it has been formulated. There's no quick fix. It's not easy. But speaking of our seas and lakes: Seamen do not ask for cowind. They're learning how to sail, and we're going to do that together. I would like to return to you on the numbers of the reservations.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-595	Madam President, I would like Welfare and health care face major challenges, especially demographic ones. On average, drug costs increase by 5% per year, mainly due to new healthcare needs that arise and the accelerated development of medicines. In the world, pharmaceutical sales – hear and behold – SEK 7,200 billion a year. In Sweden, 203 million pharmaceutical packages were sold in 2017, and the Swedish pharmaceutical market had sales of approximately SEK 43.8 billion in the same year. So we are talking about big money. According to the Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency, we have, from a European perspective, the lowest prices of medicines that are exposed to competition. Yet we have relatively rapid price developments. While traditional drugs are developing more and more rapidly, we also see rapid development in gene and cell therapy. These precision medicines, of course, require more accurate diagnostics and many times individual treatment, which will place great demands on the entire care chain. Our model with a joint and jointly funded welfare is a cornerstone of the Swedish model. At the same time, we decision-makers and the profession must face new challenges for the public system. Medical care must be able to deliver and take in new medicines. Otherwise, trust is lacking, and then we are on a sloping level. We must safeguard joint funding and create room for investment in our common welfare in order to provide care as needed. At the same time, we must be able to make difficult priorities. Already in the last parliamentary term, the Red Green Government invested many new billions in welfare. The January agreement also contains sharp wordings about continuing along the road, which is important and good. However, according to TLV, there are indications that the trend is towards more unequal treatment in the pharmacy and pharmaceutical sector. It is a general challenge with medicines that are used in healthcare but that are not granted subsidies and are therefore excluded from the benefit. Another challenge is that a medicine outside the benefit has been up to each county council to deal with the risk of unequal care as a result. Similarly, there are challenges when medicines are granted with benefit but are not used in the same way in the various county councils. There are now various collaboration forums between TLV, SKL, regions, county councils, government, parliament and so on to find solutions. The government is working hard on these issues. As early as 2016, an investigation was launched to review the financing, subsidisation and pricing of medicines. The investigation, called Clearer Responsibility and Rules for Medicinal Products, has recently been handed over to the government. The basic proposal of the study is, of course, intended to guarantee the Swedish health care system effective medicines that thus benefit patients. Since the alliance government liberalised the pharmacy market, new pharmaceutical chains have established themselves on the market. The density of pharmacies has increased in many cities, which provides better service, but in sparsely populated areas the problems remain. It is true that e-commerce is increasing, which will to some extent compensate for the lack of presence, but e-commerce does not replace human contact with over-the-counter conversations. Another concern that we see in general is that, following the reform, access to medicines became that way. Even a general lack of skills can be a concern. The Government therefore wants to clarify and focus more on the main tasks of pharmacies in order to better meet the public's need for safe drug use and service at pharmacies. A central issue for the government is to improve the quality of advice. The legislative amendments adopted by the Riksdag also clarify the basic tasks of pharmacies, which means, among other things, that pharmaceutical competence is required in connection with processing and prescribing. For many years now, state aid has been granted to sparsely populated areas in order to guarantee a certain level of service. In June 2018, the Riksdag adopted a new Act on a National List of Medicinal Products. In short, it creates a register that collects the patient's prescribed medicines and other items on a list. This will lead to increased patient safety and more effective administration of medicines. The Act is proposed to enter into force in 2022. It may seem to be a long time, but it is a difficult process in which several parts should be guaranteed, such as security and integrity. The starting date is set on the basis of a recommendation from the E-Health Agency, which considers that a two-year transitional period is needed. Madam President, I would like The report contains a joint declaration. According to the committee, the government should consider bringing forward the dates for the entry into force of the provisions of the National List of Medicinal Products Act. The date of entry into force of the National List of Medicinal Products Act has been chosen to allow healthcare and pharmacy operators time to adapt their systems to the new requirements of the Act. It is, of course, important that the solution chosen be technically and legally sustainable. Given the urgent need for the law to enter into force as soon as possible, we support the announcement of this opinion. I support the proposal in the report.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-608	Madam President, I would like No cause for concern! I'm here with a little dog. A poodle. My wise colleagues, Madam President, have just taught me that there is an agreement in Parliament because, for perfectly understandable reasons, Members of Parliament do not want to go through hourly votes where there is still no possibility of creating a majority or practical benefit for the inhabitants. That agreement is that we Members are calling for a point to be accepted when we will not achieve objectives with our proposals. I think that agreement is wise. Why sit in a meeting room when you can listen to the inhabitants? I lie down flat with my furry dog – the poodle – and claim consent only to reservation 7 on generic prescription.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-611	Madam President, I would like I asked for the floor because I was so delighted to hear the main representatives of the Social Democrats on pharmacy issues from the Parliament's pulpit say that the re-regulation of the pharmacy market that the Alliance Government pushed through in 2009 – 2011 has led to a substantial increase in the service for citizens. I can only agree with that. This applies not only to opening hours but also to reception. There is a completely different situation today than before. But I reacted when Mikael Dahlqvist suggested that there could be problems in sparsely populated areas. It is clear that there are problems in rural areas, but it has not become worse after the reregulation. Jämtland is still the county in Sweden that has the highest pharmacy density. The pharmacy that has been closed down in rural areas is the pharmacy in Lima, which was forced to close because the Social Democratic County Council in Dalarna closed down the health centre. Then it became completely impossible to operate the pharmacy. It is gratifying that the Social Democrats have come to the realization that the reregulation was a positive decision. I asked to ask a question. As I said in my speech, I am really concerned about what is going to happen to the rural pharmacy in a situation where the legislation passed by the Social Democrats limits the possibility of using other personnel for pharmaceutical processing when the legislation comes into force in 2020. There is already a shortage of pharmacists, and there is also the removal of the possibility of using the staff working in pharmacies in an efficient and patient-proof manner.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-615	Madam President, I would like Anders W Jonsson did not really listen to my speech on the re-regulation of the pharmacy market. I said, admittedly, that pharmacies have increased significantly in numbers in larger cities and provide increased service, which is good, but I see that many pharmacies are surprisingly empty. Let's see what it leads to. I wonder with which glasses you see in the sparsely populated area, Anders W Jonsson. I see completely different problems with my glasses. I take Värmland as an example. There are no more pharmacies in rural areas. I often talk about municipalities with 10 000 – 15 000 inhabitants or less. Opening hours are worse and there are significant problems with access to prescription medicines within a reasonable time. There are challenges, but I see both the positive and the negative. Then there was the question of competence requirements for the pharmacist. I'm still a little surprised at what Anders W Jonsson thinks. I know that in your party too, for other activities, the issue is that competence should be as high as possible. Experience and knowledge are careful. In this case, it is a question of improving the skills of certain situations, such as the processing of medicines and information. This is the competence that the legislation seeks to ensure. Then, of course, we must follow the question and see what the effects of the law are, whether there are enough competent staff and so on. Surely the foundation must be, Anders W Jonsson, that there is the right competence for the right tasks?
i-a4ba94530076c58a-620	Madam President, I would like Reregulation of pharmacies has led to more pharmacies with significantly better opening hours. The situation in the Swedish sparsely populated area is unchanged. The drastic cut in the number of pharmacies took place in the 80s when it was the monopoly Apoteket AB. Then there was a deterioration for the Swedish sparsely populated area. But from 2009 onwards it is an unchanged situation. This also applies to how many patients go into the pharmacy and get their prescription prepared or not. When it comes to health care in general, it is strange that the Social Democrats do not believe that it should be regulated, that is, that the doctor should do it, the nurse should do it and the physiotherapist should do it. There is legislation that says that it is up to the manager to ensure that the staff have the necessary skills to carry out their duties. But suddenly, when we come to that part of the health care system that applies to pharmacies, the Social Democrats have pushed through legislation that does not allow you to take part in the processing of prescriptions unless you have a pharmaceutical education. That is what will cause problems. A year ago, we pushed the question that pharmacies should be seen in exactly the same way as health care, that is, that it is the head of operations who is responsible for the staff having the necessary competence. At the surgical clinic, you can say that the surgical nurse has to operate on appendicitis if you know that they have the right skills, but in the pharmacy world, the Swedish parliament will control who can do what. It's a logic that doesn't make sense. It should not be the highest possible competence without the right competence. Parliament is not the right place to make those decisions. How do you prepare yourself, Mikael Dahlqvist, for the very big problems that this will pose for Swedish pharmacies, not least in sparsely populated areas in the summer of 2020 when the legislation comes into force?
i-a4ba94530076c58a-624	Madam President, I would like I would like to move on to the issue of the liberalisation of the pharmacy market and rural areas. Anders W Jonsson and I have slightly different views on the issue. I can give an example of what happened last year in Värmland, given that Anders W Jonsson referred to Jämtland. There is a pharmacy in Likenäs, and the next pharmacy is seven to eight miles away. Those living in northern Värmland have almost 200 kilometres to the pharmacy in Hagfors. The pharmacy in Likenäs closed all summer due to a shortage of staff, and it was referred to the pharmacies in Torsby or Hagfors. Now, state aid has helped some of the problem, which is a good thing. But I certainly do not dare to say that there is a good service in the pharmacy market in sparsely populated areas. As far as competence requirements are concerned, as I said in my previous speech: it is clear that we should have as high a level of competence as possible so that the response is adequate. At the same time, it is not entirely unproblematic, what Anders W Jonsson proposes – that managers decide and delegate responsibility. It is just to look at the Swedish health care system and see what a hierarchically sluggish organization it is. There, I think, for example, nurses could do a lot of other tasks, but for various reasons they may not get or can. On this basis, I think it is a good thing to set the bar high and make this requirement. Then you have to comply with the legislation and see where it goes.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-630	Madam President, I would like Anders W Jonsson raised this issue of inequality. Today we have a fantastic medical development in the field of cancer medicines, for example. Unfortunately, there has been a relative error in both regional and class terms as to who is receiving these medicines. That can be considered, Madam President. According to one study, between 2011 and 2015, 1,630 patients were eligible for this type of immunotherapy, but only 14% of them received it. That's outrageous. We must correct this, both geographically and in class terms. From a class perspective, you can see that far too many with short training and thin wallets do not get access to these medicines. There we in Parliament must do great things, I think. Madam President, I would like We have slightly different opinions about the fantastic liberalisation of pharmacies and how to look at a pharmacy. Is it a variety of trades? You can think about that. The former Alliance sold out the pharmacies and was very pleased with it. It was ideologically substantiated, one can absolutely say – everything would go to the market. It was a pretty bad deal, you see if you look at the increase in value in some of the pharmacies. It's been twitching properly, so it wasn't the state that got fat from the store. Rather, it was market forces that became good, happy, fat cats of sales. I am a Stockholmer; you can hear that. I live in a town with huge access to pharmacies. You live in the city centre, too, wow! Then you can run in and out of pharmacies. Where I live it is like 500 meters between pharmacies – five pharmacies I can choose from. You know which pharmacy I choose, though! But what if I lived in Likenäs, Värmland, as Mikael mentioned? There it is not the hope of liberalisation. There is Kronan's Pharmacy, which last summer was closed for eleven weeks. This pharmacy received SEK 359 972 in state aid. This was the highest support received by the Kronan Group. Travel time for the residents of Klarälven was about 50 minutes, so one can say that liberalisation led to some things – and if you live in Likenäs in Värmland you have to go a little further than we at Kungsholmen get to go. Madam President, I would like The medicine we get printed, how deep should we ourselves have to dive into what concerns it? What kind of information can we expect? What information we get from those who prescribe and handle the medicine, i.e. the doctor and hopefully the pharmacist, I think is an important question. When you go to a health centre, you want to know that the person who examines your tonsillitis has a certain competence, don't you? When the bill on pharmacies was published here in Parliament on 24 May 2018, we did not fully agree on this, and it surprised me. The Swedish pharmaceutical policy should, of course, assume that all people who are staying in Sweden and receiving medicine are given proper information. It is a consumer issue and a patient issue. I was very surprised that the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates were annoyed that only pharmacists would be allowed to work. Now we are talking about the shortage of pharmacists and so on, but I can think that competence is the important thing when you stand there as a patient and are going to get a very advanced medicine. As of 1 July 2020, the law will require that a prescription should be processed as a general rule by a pharmacist and that a patient should be advised and so on by the pharmacist. It's extremely important, I think. Accessibility, Madam President, is about so much more than the number of pharmacies per inhabitant. The possibility to get the medicines you need should never be controlled by which county council you live in, which pharmacy owner you have closest or if the product is stored there. There have also been problems with that. Everyone in Sweden should have the right to safe and safe use of medicines through impartial and high-quality medical advice by competent personnel – whether it is a prescription or non-prescription medicine. It's important. You don't go and cut your hair at the butcher's, if I may put it a little brutally. When a patient has suffered a health injury, Madam President, the health care provider is required under Chapter 3. Section 8 The Patient Safety Act informs the patient as soon as possible of the possibility to claim compensation under the Patient Injury Act or from the Medical Insurance. I believe that many people in Sweden believe that all the medicine they collect is insured. I thought so, too, before I entered the political business and started working on health issues. But that is not the case; it is the case that the companies themselves can register for the pharmaceutical insurance. I think it is extremely important to resolve the issue of medicines without medical insurance on the Swedish market. Annually, a significant proportion of medicines are sold to patients without being insured through the pharmaceutical insurance. Today, there is no obligation for pharmacists to inform patients about medicines they collect included in the insurance policy or not, but it is the responsibility of each patient to obtain that information. Such a system creates great patient uncertainty and risks becoming arbitrary. Therefore, responsibility for this should be placed on the responsible doctors and pharmacists where the medicine is collected. We need to investigate that, because it's very unclear. It's a question we can work on together. It may not be a political question whether the medicine you take is insured or not. That should be a matter of course. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by calling for all motions to be rejected. I agree with the proposal in the report.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-642	Madam President, I would like I am just like Karin Rågsjö obsessed with the inequality of Swedish healthcare, and I find it extremely shocking that it is people who have higher education and have work who have access to the new therapies. But the analysis of what this is due to differs between Karin Rågsjö and me. I see that the lack of accessibility and the queues we have in health care is perhaps the main reason why we have inequalities in health care. I think it is interesting, Madam President, that Karin Rågsjö's Left Party now seems to be the only party in the Swedish Parliament that sees reregulation as a major problem. Even the Social Democrats are now saying that this has increased the service and given a completely different accessibility to the population. Then my question to Karin Rågsjö is: If it is now such a big problem that it opened up to other pharmacy operators than the monopoly Apoteket AB, won't the Left Party propose and push that one should again socialize pharmacies? Finally, I would like to return to the pharmacy in Likenäs and that Karin Rågsjö said that they do not cut themselves at the butcher. I and the Center Party do not see that the difference between the pharmacist and the pharmacist is as great as the difference between the hairdresser and the butcher. What I am concerned about is that in the rest of the healthcare system it is about the competence of the individual, and it is the head of operations who is responsible for deciding that. It is, in fact, only in the case of pharmacies that we have entered into legislation and laid down what should be done by one pharmacist and what should not be done by anyone else. Nobody has any idea that this would be done in health care – that we should go in and regulate: This must not be done by a nurse, this must be done by a doctor and this cannot be done by a nurse. My concern is that, as in Likenäs, this will lead to the closure of a number of sparsely populated pharmacies, not because of a lack of money but because of a lack of pharmacists.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-647	Madam President, I would like Anders W Jonsson addresses the issue of inequality. That's interesting. We have mostly talked about this with equality from the left, but it is great that you on the right side now step up and talk about it. Perhaps it is good to do so if you are involved as a negotiating basis for an S-led government. This is also about profits in welfare. Looking at the possibility of getting medicine today, for example for immunotherapy, you can see that patients who can pay 75 000 kronor a month can receive this effective cancer medicine. They are sent by their county councils if they have finances to pay 75 000 SEK a month. Of course, we're not supposed to have it like that. It's a terrible inequality. Today, several studies show that women and men with short education have stopped in terms of life expectancy. It's a very big backlash. These are unequal economic structures. Perhaps we can have that debate some other time, because otherwise we will have to talk about this whole day. This with pharmacists is about us as individuals, consumers and patients being able to go into a pharmacy and get professional help there. That's not always the case today. Very many pharmacists end up in the big cities, where there is a plethora of pharmacies. Oh, my God, the competition is stiff, and you try to knock each other out in different ways. But you also have to follow up on the system. When I specifically request a doctor's appointment, I'm going to see a doctor. It's obvious. If I get a medicine printed out that I don't know much about, I want there to be expertise behind the counter at the pharmacy.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-652	Madam President, I would like These are two very important issues we are discussing. One is what it is because we in Sweden have an inequality when it comes to access to medicines. There is the most important reason why those who always make their way – despite queues and lack of accessibility, whether this has been about bread queues in Leningrad or care queues in Östersund – are the ones who have contacts and cash. The most important thing we can do to increase equality in Swedish healthcare is to increase accessibility, so that even those who do not have a long education or master the Swedish language can easily receive healthcare. That is by far the most important measure. Then we return to this with the pharmacy in Likenäs. Why is it that a number of pharmacies around Sweden have been forced to close in the summers? Well, there is only one explanation, namely that there is a great shortage of pharmacists. You cannot solve the manning of summers, and then you have to close the pharmacies that have the smallest turnover and the minimum number of customers. This beats the drugstores in sparsely populated areas. This is not just about the pharmacy in Likenäs. The pharmacy at home in Hedesunda has also had to close some summers. The root of the evil there is the lack of pharmacists. Then the left side demands that only pharmacists should be allowed to process prescriptions, contrary to how we view the rest of the healthcare system! There we are demanding competence, but it is not just about the vocational training you have, but it is up to the individual manager at the place to make sure that, for example, a nurse has the competence to do spirometry tests or to print out diabetes medicines. We do not regulate this in legislation. However, precisely in the case of pharmacies, the left side has chosen to do so, and it will have devastating consequences for pharmacies in sparsely populated areas.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-657	Madam President, I would like I will return to Anders W Jonsson's discussion on health inequalities, because I find it so interesting. One gets a system of increased inequality because of, for example, how to operate health centres. I can take Stockholm as an example. If inequality had been eliminated, there would have been more health centres in areas with socio-economically vulnerable populations and with poor health. But they didn't. Instead, it has chosen to have 13 health centres at Östermalm, for example. This is how the governance of the health care system looks. It has not been thought of reaching those who are the sickest first. Instead, it has only been thought of that the private actors should be satisfied and happy. Anders W Jonsson also asked if we will operate that pharmacies should be nationalised again. No, there is not a chance to do this with the increase in value that we have seen in, for example, Apoteket Hjärtat, with links to Ica– my God, then the state would go bankrupt! – or other private pharmacies. We are not going to push this. It is impossible to do so today. You sold out the pharmacies for a fairly cheap money, and the increase in the value of these large companies has been huge. It is not small family-owned pharmacies that we see, as was said when this was to be introduced, but it is big giant chains that have cashat into this. I believe that we have partly donated this to the owners of these large pharmacy chains. There has been better accessibility in the big cities at the expense of sparsely populated areas. I will end this discussion.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-661	Madam President, I would like When I was 22, I graduated from international economics. Since then, I have been working on foreign policy and global security policy for 26 years. The issues we are now debating have been on my table for two weeks. With the solid knowledge that I know is in the Social Committee, with former county councillors and doctors etcetera, I take on this task with great humility. I would like to start by saying this. Madam President, I would like One area that is particularly important for the Green Party and which we have raised many times over the years is the issue of environmental considerations linked to pharmaceuticals. We know that medicines have a major impact on the environment. Drugs such as sex hormones, antibiotics, cytostatics, blood lipid regulators, antiepileptics and beta blockers have a major impact on the environment. We have suggested in many contexts that, in addition to having generic medicines so that you can compete on an economic basis, you should ensure that you do not replace medicines that have less impact on the environment with those that have a greater impact on the environment. The Swedish Medical Products Agency writes in its latest report to the government that national actors in healthcare, pharmacies and water organisations are increasingly actively trying to reduce the impact of drugs, but also that there is an international awareness of drugs in the environment. More people see the need for regulation of emission restrictions on active substances in the manufacture of medicinal products. That's good, but it's way too slow. What is this about? It can be said that it is not just a problem, but there are many, and they affect the whole chain. It is about how the actual production of drugs is done and about what is later released via our bodies and in other ways. There are still those who throw drugs in the toilets, right into the drain. For example, there is drug production in India, where water treatment is largely non-existent. Drug residues and chemical agents in production go straight into the water, which is also not able to clean properly. It'll be inappropriate. It'll be like a cynical cobbler. Medicines are produced to cure diseases, but perhaps in some countries, in particular, diseases and injuries are created where they are manufactured. We also have the question of how drug residues end up in nature in Sweden via medicines that we eat ourselves. Residues are released via urine, and drug residues can later be found in the environment. They can be found in watercourses and reach fish, birds, and even humans. In short, there is no closed system called our bodies. It is a cycle of which we are all part. In Sweden, several treatment plants have now invested in new technologies to capture drug residues, but the situation is far from good enough. Many treatment plants do not yet have adequate treatment for drug residues. We would have to impose a requirement on this. It is, of course, important that consumers know the environmental impact of a medicinal product. You think that such things should be declared on the packaging so that you can decide for yourself what to buy for medicines. The main problem and reason for the slowness is that it is, first and foremost, a Community issue that is being dealt with at European level. We cannot change the larger regulations ourselves. But that doesn't say that we can't do more in Sweden. The government has worked very hard for this and will continue to do so during its term of office. I am absolutely convinced of that. Madam President, I would like The government has endeavoured to work with the issue in different ways. We will do so at European level during the government period. The European Commission has an ambition to develop a strategy on medicines in the environment. It was supposed to be presented in the first quarter of 2018, but it has been delayed. We can read about this in today's report. Now we will invest a great deal in getting this through at European level. It feels very good. Madam President, I would like During the previous term of office, the government set up a centre of knowledge for pharmaceuticals in the environment. It was very good and very important. It is based at the Medical Products Agency. The centre has conducted a stakeholder dialogue and will work with the following focus areas: to strengthen knowledge about potentially impacted pharmaceutical substances, to strengthen knowledge of sustainable manufacturing and to promote the development and development of environmental criteria. I look forward to following the further work of the Centre, which will be very important. Then there are related questions about the use of antibiotics. It is about antibiotics for animals and in agriculture, but also about antibiotics for people around the world. Sweden is quite good at being restrictive, but this is actually one of the greatest issues of our time. If the antibiotics do not work, you will die of colds that pass into pneumonia and so on. It's probably the biggest health threat we've got ahead of us. In these words, Madam President, I call for the motion in the committee's report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-673	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much to all of you for a fruitful debate! I'm here for the record. I would like to put another blow to generic prescription and make it clear that I am in favour of reservation 7 and no one else. I am doing this for time, although I naturally support all the liberal reservations in the report. Priority must be given, and I imagine that generic prescription is the most important priority for us. Because it is not reasonable for sick people to risk mixing their own medicines and unnecessarily risk becoming sicker from the medicines that will make them healthier. Laws must protect the weak, especially the confused and the most fragile. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 7, in paragraph 8. As I said, thank you very much for the debate.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-676	Madam President, I would like I support the Left Party's reservation: that the Riksdag agrees with what is stated in motion 1760 that the government should investigate how the ownership directives for Akademiska Hus can be amended in order to actively promote students' voluntary involvement by achieving reduced rent costs for the student unions. Akademiska Hus has the task of owning, developing and managing properties at the country's universities and colleges, which of course also includes many student unions. Approximately 80 percent of Akademiska Hus tenants are state-owned. Most of them are universities. Although Akademiska Hus is to be regarded as a support function for higher education institutions and the entire higher education sector, the company made a profit of SEK 6.45 billion in 2017 and a dividend of SEK 1.63 billion was made. In 2015, the government took out an extra 61⁄2 billion in addition to the ordinary dividend, of approximately 11⁄2 billion. In total it was SEK 7 billion. These are over-rents paid by our higher education institutions. Lärosäten are authorities that are in the same place and in the same premises for a long time. Despite this, Akademiska Hus, on behalf of the government of course, is leasing premises to higher education institutions according to a standard that is adapted for companies that are exposed to competition. However, universities cannot be compared to companies. Companies usually have a business that can easily choose premises in a free market. Our universities can't do that. Akademiska Hus renting also affects many student unions. In order to be close and available to the students, the unions must be located within the areas of higher education institutions, which means that they often have to rent Akademiska Hus. Some rent directly from the company. Others have the opportunity to sublet and receive subsidized rents from their universities. This means that the unions end up in an addiction position to their higher education institutions. It is a situation that makes it difficult for our student unions to carry out their work. The Left Party believes that it is not reasonable for costs for rents at Akademiska Hus to be as large a part of the costs of higher education institutions and unions as they are today. Last week I met representatives of some student unions. Although these student unions themselves own or rent their union houses from other landlords, they have sections that rent both from Akademiska Hus and from others. The rent for Akademiska Hus premises goes up by 18 percent, but the rent for their own premises is largely still. Of course, the activities of the sections rented by Akademiska Hus are made more difficult when the budget is eaten up by runaway rents. The alternative is to cancel the premises and no longer be where the students are, which of course makes student union activities difficult. I'd like to come back a little bit to Akad emiska Hus's win. It is about 6 1⁄2 billion, of which 1.6 billion goes directly to the Treasury. Akademiska Hus's task should be to make it easier for colleges, universities and student unions to carry out their activities, not to withdraw money to the treasury. A couple of years ago, the Left Party Linda Snecker asked Helene Hellmark Knutsson, the then Minister for Research, about Akademiska Hus and the rent costs, and the answer was that universities and colleges are financially compensated for market rents. For me, it's going to be a pretty weird spin. The state sets a high rent for another part of the state because we have a hot housing market of all wants market rents. The state's money doesn't feel best to spin around between different authorities. Back to the student unions, which is forced to rent from Akademiska Hus and pay an over-rent to the state. Are the student unions compensated for this overleaf, or are they once again dependent on the higher education institutions they are going to review? The unions are the student unions and are already sufficiently dependent on the higher education institutions with the financing model that has been introduced and that we have today. Madam President, I would like In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that further work on customer relations is necessary due to the fact that the subsequent dividend decided on by the Company's Annual General Meeting in 2015 caused widespread criticism from several HEI representatives and led to deteriorating conditions for a commercial relationship with the HEIs. It's not an easy sentence that the National Audit Office has written, but that's what it says. The sentence I just mentioned shows at tt the extra dividend of 6 1⁄2 billion mies at the universities and should have been used to adjust rents, not profits. The sentence also shows what is wrong with Akademiska Hus: the talk about customer relations and business relations, as if Akademiska Hus were any capitalist company and universities customers in a competitive market. This is the wrong idea with Akademiska Hus. Akademiska Hus and the higher education institutions should work together for as low rents and costs as possible, not based on the higher education institutions as customers. The Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation that Akademiska Hus should further strengthen its efforts to create incentives for reduced costs for the company and higher education institutions must also mean that Akademiska Hus reviews its renting. The government should review the ownership directives to Akademiska Hus, for the benefit of higher education institutions and student unions.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-688	Madam President, I would like As everyone knows, the state has discussed several times throughout history how best to manage its state-owned properties. The objective has always been long-term ownership and predictable management to create the best possible conditions for the type of operations to be carried out in the premises. As early as 1992, the Swedish Parliament decided that the former building board should be closed down and that all state properties should be put into public limited liability. This is why Akademiska Hus AB was founded in 1993, and there are most of the state's universities and colleges today. Raising different activities is basically a successful way to go, not least in order to get as much knowledge and expertise as possible into different activities, thereby ensuring and focusing on the values that they are set to manage. It is always a great advantage if universities and colleges concentrate on education and training and if those who know properties concentrate on real estate management. Akademiska Hus AB has the task of building, renovating and owning and managing in close dialogue with the businesses in the properties. The Riksdag has decided that Akademiska Hus will conduct its business on a commercial basis, which means that various aspects such as the property's age, condition and/ or acquisition cost form the basis for transparent leasing in a natural negotiation and close dialogue with the respective college or university. As regards Akademiska Hus AB's leasing, the Riksdag has established a number of principles that apply when rents are set for higher education institutions and universities. It also established a local supply reform that would apply to the company. It states that the rents should be set on a market-based basis, where different factors are involved and form the basis for the renting. Factors such as contract duration, investment costs, city prices, property types and more are important components for determining fair market rent. Akademiska Hus AB has the opportunity to sign a contract for up to ten years without further approval by the Swedish parliament or government. This means that Akademiska Hus has significantly greater opportunities for more attractive leasing than other state-owned companies. Having said that, Madam President, I do not mean that Akademiska Hus AB has fully fulfilled its obligations and everything that can be desired in order to achieve a balance between reasonable rents and long-term ownership and the future need for premises. I share the Swedish National Audit Office's view that the company should further strengthen its efforts to create common incentives and conditions to reduce its costs and, of course, rent costs for universities. However, I believe that it is important and crucial that the company continues to operate in company form and that it should be on a market-based basis. Otherwise, the State is taking a very high risk of being accused of rent dumping and/ or of subsidizing the rent and thus not being given the same conditions in a common market. 40 per cent of the country's universities and colleges have a property owner other than Akademiska Hus, and this is an important component to remember when we discuss the company's business ethics, transparency and renting. It must never be seen as an unfair condition for other players' opportunities to be on the market. My conviction, Madam President, is that there are opportunities to be much better and more cost-effective through internal efficiency and closer cooperation between the company and the higher education institutions in terms of both the use of premises and renovations and renovations in close dialogue. As a result, there will be both lower costs for the company and lower rents for state universities. I do not believe that this should be done by changing the yield requirement in the Ownership Directives. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all motions.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-698	Madam President, I would like There are many beautiful old buildings for our universities, but they are not always so effective. There are also many higher education institutions that have nice, new premises, but they may not always be used in the right way. In order to find answers to these questions, I welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the local supply of higher education institutions, the government's control of the local supply of higher education institutions and the work of Akademiska Hus in providing premises for the higher education institutions. I support the committee's proposal. The importance of having a local supply plan for all higher education institutions is emphasised. I think this is very good. Many premises are used in an inefficient way, and you can compare between higher education institutions because the review of how the premises are used is done in different ways. This should be done much better so that the premises can be better used and perhaps more efficiently. As mentioned earlier, Akademiska Hus currently owns 60 per cent of the higher education institutions' premises. 26 years ago it was decided that Akademiska Hus AB would be formed. We would now like to change this, and the Moderates have a motion by Erik Bengtzboe. We believe that the regulatory framework should be amended so that universities and higher education institutions can own their premises themselves. This would mean that Akademiska Hus could be sold. Owning the properties would mean more long-term plans and a more stable economy. I therefore think it is a very good exercise. We have also discussed the rents and that they should perhaps be lowered. Akademiska Hus cannot subsidise rents, as it would give an unhealthy competition compared to other property owners. It is 40 percent that is not rented by Akademiska Hus. Since there are few landlords, it is also more difficult to negotiate. You can negotiate for longer. However, because there are few landlords, there is less competition, and it is becoming more difficult to negotiate. Our proposal would actually mean that there would be more property owners to rent from and that it might also be possible to lower rents. I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-704	Madam President, I would like On this matter, we have no other opinion than the majority of committees. This is perhaps not the most exciting report we have seen from the Swedish National Audit Office. However, the system of local provision of higher education institutions is all the more interesting. The report says that many higher education institutions have not drawn up a local supply plan in accordance with current regulations. The University of Gothenburg takes the audacity to say in its referral that such plans are unnecessary, that they provide unnecessary administration and that there is no need to draw up plans other than for new construction and the like. Probably the University of Gothenburg is quite right. The entire system of Akademiska Hus renting out premises to universities and that detailed local supply plans should be made up looking that are densely resource-intensive and create a mountain of administration, as the University of Gothenburg rightly points out. However, the relevant regulations and rules shall be complied with. If they are excessive, the rules should be amended and made effective. It is rather rude of the University of Gothenburg to say that you do not intend to follow the rules and regulations that exist. The report states that a proposal from 1992 was adopted by the Parliament and is still valid. I think a previous speaker mentioned it. The report states: 中 Therefore, the Authority was decommissioned by the Construction Board, while state-owned companies were established to manage the state's real estate. The companies would yield a return comparable to that achieved by privately owned real estate management companies. ..................................................... The problem is that this is not a real market. This started in the 80's when everything would happen according to market laws. I am a strong supporter of market laws – on the market. This is hardly even a quasimarket, to be honest. The state should make a profit on its own funds, its own money. If an HEI has received too much money, you can easily raise rents and withdraw some extra money to the state. I am not saying that it is being done, but it would be perfectly possible to do so. The question is whether this system is rational in the long run. I think, like some exerciser in this area, that universities should own their own premises. Every small office closet may not be used to the maximum, but you do not have a lot of administration and a lot of plans to be drawn up. I think it's a win. Another important issue that we should address is the housing supply of students. I still find it insane that universities that cannot cover the housing supply for their students are allowed to increase the number of study places. It should be a matter of course that all students who start an education have a roof over their heads. But there is another issue that goes beyond this subject, and we will have to deal with it at a later date.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-712	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd start by introducing myself. I am a new spokesperson in the Green Party for research and higher education issues. Some of you who are members of the Education Committee have met, but far from everyone. I have my full seat as a member in another committee. But I hope that in the future I can also participate and contribute to the Education Committee, at least to some extent. This is the first time for me in this speaker's seat. Madam President, I would like I will say something about today's business as well and not just talk about myself. We have a report from the Swedish National Audit Office, which mainly deals with efficient local supply and efficient use. Operations require premises. This is the case for most businesses and of course also for education and research. Effectiveness is, of course, crucial. But education and research also require efficient and good premises, otherwise pedagogy and research suffer. This, of course, means an inefficient and poor use of resources in itself. A lecture with a hundred or a couple of hundred students or a seminar with perhaps ten students naturally places different demands on the premises. The educational institutions also have a very wide range of activities, and the requirements for premises differ between different subjects, faculties and departments – everything from advanced lab environments to writing rooms, computer rooms, seminar rooms and office premises, which are also mentioned in the audit report. The Swedish National Audit actually touches that part quite superficially in its report. Nevertheless, I think it may be worth mentioning that good pedagogy requires good premises. The room and the design of the room are very important for the conversation that is held in the room. Instead, the Swedish National Audit Office points to some shortcomings that universities should address. It is important that they have an updated local supply plan, which not everyone has. Several of the higher education institutions should also improve their work with a continuous follow-up of how the premises can be used more efficiently. In general, however, higher education institutions take the issue of premises very seriously and are actively working to reduce the costs of premises and improve the supply of premises. After all, the cost of premises is one of the major expenditure items in the entire higher education sector. It's a cost to the state. But these are, of course, costs that are passed on to researchers, who often have to pay significantly high overheads on external funds to pay, among other things, building costs. These are costs passed on to students, who pay with fewer teacher-led lessons, for example, when resources go to pay for premises instead of staffing in teaching. There are several ways of providing incentives for more efficient local use. Interpartition is one such tool that gives the individual faculties and departments an incentive not to overbook premises, not to use excessively large or expensive premises, but at best to find the most suitable premises in size and design, whether in terms of teaching or research, or in the case of other office spaces. In the same way, of course, the universities, at the Vice-Chancellor's and Management level, should also review how the premises are used in general at the universities and higher education institutions. The largest administrator, Akademiska Hus, has also been investigated by the Swedish National Audit Office. The study recommends that Akademiska Hus should continue to develop its work to create incentives to reduce costs. There have been some moves, both that the universities should be allowed to take over the administration and ownership of premises, and that Akademiska Hus should instead be given other owner directives in order to reduce the rent costs for the higher education institutions and ultimately for the student unions. But I believe, as has been said here before, that our universities will probably continue to focus on what they are good at, namely to conduct teaching and research, but perhaps not primarily to own and manage properties. The costs should, of course, always be reviewed. In the end, it is the teaching and research – the students and researchers – that have to pay. But it is also crucial that the efficient use of premises requires good and efficient premises. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the reservations and motions to be rejected.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-722	Madam President, I would like This report is a so-called motion report which concerns some seventy different motions received during the general period of exercise here in Parliament. The issues concern everything from digitalisation to broadband expansion, 5G networks and postal services throughout the country. The Moderates have five reservations in the report, but for time-winning we only ask for the approval of reservation 11, which concerns Sweden's 5G stakes. Madam President, I would like Sweden is becoming increasingly connected. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency's report on the Swedish telecommunications market published in early 2018 showed that there were 3.9 million subscriptions for fixed broadband at the end of 2017. The number of subscriptions with fibre had increased by 18 per cent and amounted to 2.4 million, i.e. 62 per cent of all subscriptions. Overall, more and more Swedish households are gaining access to broadband or fibre. In its forecast, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency points out that 87 – 90 per cent of all households and businesses will have access to broadband of at least 100 megabits per second by 2020. The Swedish target of 95 per cent of all households having access to broadband by 2020 will not be achieved. It is clear that the reason for this is the difficulty of reaching out with fibre in sparsely populated areas. In areas where many people live, this problem does not really exist, as market forces there can be given free leeway, and investment can be made without greater uncertainty. It is in sparsely populated areas where there is no basis for commercial broadband expansion that the expansion will be extremely costly. State aid may be justified there. The fact that support for broadband development in rural areas has been increased is a good thing. More importantly, this aid is used properly and at the right time, i.e. when all other possibilities are exhausted. Otherwise, the risk is that the aid will become a covert rural aid, which is not the aim. On 14 November 2017, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency presented a proposal to the Government Office on how broadband support should be designed and managed. It stressed, among other things, the importance of state control and precision in terms of the aid's relevance to broadband roll-out and nothing else. However, to date, the government has not come back with concrete proposals, which I and the Moderates strongly call for. Madam President, I would like Urban networks also play an important role in the roll-out of broadband. We in the Moderates believe that the famous localisation principle should be reviewed in order to allow for greater cooperation between different urban networks. Today, the extension is limited by regulatory and municipal boundaries, since, according to the localisation principle, urban networks can only be kept within the municipal border. Cross-border cooperation is made impossible by increased costs for both municipalities and citizens. The regulatory framework needs to be clarified so that broadband roll-out can take place in the most appropriate way, rather than being held back by rigid and unreasonable regulatory frameworks. Madam President, I would like Broadband expansion also requires smooth and easy authorisation management. A bottleneck has been the long processing times at Trafikverket regarding the handling of permits for management cases. This is not acceptable. The Moderates are pleased that the Government has acted against the Finnish Transport Agency and in letter of regulation has pointed out the importance of shortening the processing times. May this now also be followed up by the government with the necessary control so that this bottleneck does not persist. Madam President, I would like Technology development is merciless. The expansion of the fifth generation mobile network, the so-called 5G network, has begun, and Sweden must keep pace with the development in order not to lose competitive advantage and prosperity. For the Swedish part, I appreciate that Sweden has set high ambitions to be a role model in this work. Good! However, there are two things that concern me about this extension. My first objection is that 5G expansion in Sweden is not only a national but also an international commitment. According to the Moderates, the design of spectrum harmonisation must be managed on a cross-border basis through long and harmonised licensing periods and coordinated auction procedures in Europe. A frequency allocation that is not harmonised with the rest of Europe is in practice useless. It is therefore very worrying that large parts of Europe's spectrum, which are prerequisites for developing 5G, are not yet sold. Here the government and Sweden must do their part in the pressure to bring about harmonisation of the 5G roll-out in Europe. This is also the very basis for our reservation 11, to which I previously applied. My second source of concern is network security. The development of a 5G network, which will be used by and of great benefit to many government authorities and companies, requires ensuring cyber security. It would be devastating if Swedish data in the wake of digitalisation were to be available to foreign powers. Unfortunately, we all have the accident at the Swedish Transport Agency in too fresh a memory. Today, a major debate is taking place on whether the Chinese company Huawei, owned by the Chinese State, is an appropriate company to expand the 5G network in Europe. This is because, among other things, the United States has stated that the company's equipment enables extensive Chinese counterroll and industrial espionage. However, in the second balance, the desire for 5G deployment to take place within a reasonable time, taking into account our need to ensure the protection of Swedish data. The Swedish Government must be careful and methodical in its work in order to cope with this difficult but necessary balance. Perhaps the question is basically which company or country has the financial resources to carry out the expansion. However, safety must be guaranteed, irrespective of which. Otherwise, we risk that an expansion that was initially economically costly will be a cuckoo that affects states not only economically but also in terms of security. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about postal services in our beautiful but elongated country. Today, Postnord has the important public service mission to provide postal services to all households, companies and organisations throughout Sweden. According to the Postal Act, Postnord is obliged to make at least one collection and at least one delivery of postal items each working day at least five days a week, unless it is unfair. However, as of 1 January 2018, Postnord has been given respite to deliver letters within one day. This requirement is now two days instead. However, with a steady decline in the number of letters sent, the mission is still difficult to cope financially. The management of Postnord has informed both the Government and the Transport Committee that they are unable to carry out this task in the long term without significant financial losses. Their proposal for a solution has been twofold: either the requirements for collection and distribution are further amended and postage is raised, or the State is diverting funds for the universal postal service. Something needs to be done for the postal service to function throughout the country. The government now has the ball and must decide for what action it prefers. Mrs. Alman! Both broadband as well as 5G deployment and postal distribution are issues that underpin our ability to operate and live throughout our country. There is a broad consensus on these issues. Let us together ensure that Sweden can live up to our common desire for our country to be at the forefront of these issues.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-742	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that we are in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning, I am only in favour of reservations 14 and 23. We note that the population is becoming increasingly dependent on a fast and stable internet connection for both work and leisure. In our view, access to the Internet is ultimately a democracy issue. A Sweden where not all citizens are given equal opportunities to participate in the digital debate on society or to access information online, we consider it a threat that in the long term risks further contributing to increased polarisation in society, not least between rural and urban areas. In cities it is no problem to charge by card in trade, but in some places in the country the internet is so bad that one cannot offer card purchases but is forced into cash handling and loses revenue as a result. That is why, Madam President, we wholeheartedly support what emerged from the Rural Committee's final report, namely that 100% of the population should have access to fast broadband by 2025. In our opinion, this is a prerequisite for the whole of Sweden to live. In order to speed up and facilitate the roll-out of broadband, it is, in our opinion, important, among other things, that fibre-drawing is coordinated to a greater extent. This can be done, for example, in the case of ground measures such as the drawing of cables or empty pipes. In addition, culverts and cable ducts along the road and rail networks can be usefully exploited if capacity space is available. Work has improved, but there is more to do. Furthermore, we note that mobile coverage along our railways is often poor and that the roll-out of the mobile network is necessary if people are to use their journey by train to sit and work with the computer, tablet or mobile phone during the train journey. We therefore call for a review of mobile coverage along the rail network in order to give priority at a later stage to the improvement measures that can be found. We Swedish democrats are also behind the objective in the Government's broadband strategy that 95 per cent of all households and businesses should have access to broadband of at least 100 megabits per second by 2020. Unfortunately, the government will not be able to deliver the objectives of the broadband strategy. The Swedish democrats respect that it is an ambitious goal, but if you set targets you have to work even harder if you notice that the targets are not being achieved. We would like to emphasise that the government must also ensure that the next 5G network has a good coverage throughout the country, and we therefore propose that the government investigate the possibilities for this. Madam President, I would like Digitalization is not without concern. We must not be so speed-blind in our eagerness to expand the fast internet that we forget those who do not have access to fibre or the corresponding technology for fast delivery of the internet. The goal up to 2020, which will not be achieved, is for 95% of the population to have good access to fast internet. This means that 5% do not have access to it. Therefore, Madam President, it is important that we look after the interests of those who continue to depend on the copper wire. The ongoing dismantling of the old copper telephone network affects the availability of telephony and broadband services offered so far through ADSL technology and telephone jack connectivity. This change affects the rural population in particular because the alternatives to the fixed copper connection, such as fibre or mobile technologies with a high transmission rate, have not been installed due to excessive costs. In order to prevent people from being left without the possibility of functioning communications, we believe that the person responsible for providing the copper network should not be allowed to phase this out before adequate compensation at a reasonable cost is in place. Otherwise, we risk digital exclusion, and that is not acceptable. Now I'm going to go over and talk a little about the post office, which Anders Hansson previously spoke about very exemplaryly. We Swedish democrats believe that letters and packages should be delivered on time regardless of where you live in Sweden. This is also something that everyone can demand under the Postal Act. Despite the challenges Postnord faces, our view is that it must be possible to live and work throughout the country. We therefore believe that the government should investigate the possibility of improving the delivery of mail in rural areas, as this service is still of central importance in order to receive and send letters. In the big cities there are plenty of service points. In the countryside they are pulled down, but like cursed one says that you achieve the amount of service points. However, they are often in the wrong place. In our opinion, postal node must improve its capacity to deliver consignments on time in order to prevent the recipients from suffering inconveniences of various kinds. We believe that Postnord has not fulfilled its social mission, and we therefore demand that structural changes in the operations be implemented and that it be made more effective in order for the letters to arrive on time. Madam President, I would like I see time slips away. I am therefore jumping a little forward, because this is an important issue. Almost every day of the year, attempts are made to smuggle drugs through the mail. Postal consignments sent to Sweden from abroad are checked on arrival via customs, but packages or letters sent within the country do not undergo the same checks. We would like to emphasise that only the police or customs have the right to check the content of a consignment, which means that postal agents can become involuntary intermediaries for drug trafficking without being able to do anything about it. As the online trade in drug-class drugs increases, more smuggling takes place via ordinary mail. The risk for the sender or pick-up of packages to be caught is very small because it is only at times that the police and customs already have an ongoing stake-out that extradition workers may put away consignments. We therefore believe that the regulatory framework should be amended so that everyone who handles mail and packages is given the right to contact customs or police on their own initiative if they suspect that there are drugs in a particular consignment.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-761	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that the Center Party is of course behind all its reservations, but for time winning, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 17 only. Sweden currently has a strong position in the field of IT. At the same time, many people live in rural areas who unfortunately still do not have access to broadband. This affects not only the ability to communicate, but also the ability to run businesses in rural areas. The Center Party believes that everyone must be able to be part of the digital society. In this context, the roll-out of broadband is a sine qua non, and more and more welfare services are being developed on the basis of digital opportunities. The Center Party also notes that users are calling for better coverage and higher transmission speeds to make it possible to use internet-based services everywhere. We would also like to point out that in the sparsely populated areas, wireless infrastructure may, in our opinion, be an economic means of reaching out to all homes and establishments as a complement or alternative to fibre. Based on the fact that all of Sweden will be connected, it is gratifying that in the January agreement that has been concluded between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party there are special efforts to expand broadband throughout the country. In the expansion that has been, fibre associations, urban network associations and the market have been important players and will continue to be forward. It is important that more money is needed, but the money obviously needs to be directed where it should be spent. Some regulatory simplifications need to be made and it needs to be made easier to make aid payments. Broadband is, in the opinion of the Center Party, a fundamental part of Sweden's infrastructure and can also be considered as part of a functioning welfare. We also believe that IT should be seen as the fifth mode of transport along with roads, railways, shipping and aviation. The Center Party now also notes that the 700-megahertz band has been auctioned, which, in our view, is a crucial prerequisite for improving broadband coverage throughout the country and not least in rural areas. However, we would like to stress the importance of taking into account not only civil society's need for radio frequencies in this context, but also the needs of the blue light authorities. The Center Party also notes that some parts of the current spectrum space were excluded from the auction process pending the government's position on future demand for frequency space for the blue-light authorities. It is our hope that the proposals put forward by the State study on radio spectrum use in its report Frequency in the service of society will provide the necessary guidance in order to both safeguard society's future needs for spectrum and strengthen national security interests in the area of licensing for radio broadcasting. The ongoing dismantling of the old copper telephone network affects the availability of telephone and broadband services offered so far through ADSL technology and connection through the telephone jack. This change affects the rural population in particular because the alternatives to the fixed copper connection, such as fibre or mobile technologies, are not available at all in some places. In order to prevent people from being left without the possibility of functioning communications, the Center Party considers that the provider of the copper network should not be allowed to phase it out before there is a replacement in place, either the fibre developed or the roll-out of the mobile network. Furthermore, Mr President, the Center Party wishes to emphasise the importance of continuing good access to postal and payment services for people to live and work throughout the country. This applies, in particular, to the situation in rural areas and to the conditions for local business to remain and develop. Although companies are increasingly using the Internet, they still depend on being able to use postal services to receive and send goods physically. In an increasingly digitised society, the fact remains that well-functioning postal services are central to businesses and citizens throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to State investigator Kristina Jonäng's interim report As a letter in the post office, the postal industry's perspective on the co-distribution of mail, packages and newspapers is reproduced. It is clear that market-oriented operators, such as distributors, see a need to increase their turnover in other ways as both newspaper and letter mail decreases in volume. At the same time, a reverse trend can be seen in the parcel market as a result of the growing e-commerce. Co-distributing mail, packages and newspapers would, according to the Center Party's assessment, increase both time and cost efficiency and have a positive environmental impact as fewer transports would be needed. Such co-distribution should therefore be possible. It is true that newspapers and letters today have different dates for delivery to customers. However, according to the proposal of the Center Party, the joint distribution would take place according to the timetable of the current newspaper distributors. The Center Party believes that the proposal would also help to maintain better accessibility and service levels in both rural and urban areas.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-775	Mr President, I would like to On behalf of the Left Party's parliamentary group, I call for approval of the Left Party's reservation 2. It is about the possibilities of digitalisation throughout the country. The development of new digital technologies is extremely rapid. At the same time, we know that the high speeds and the new projects will initially be launched in the cities. In this important technological shift, rural areas must not lag behind. Properly managed by the government and parliament, technology development can be an opportunity for rural areas and for growth throughout the country. The whole country should be able to take advantage of the opportunities of digitalisation. We in the Left Party are convinced that digitalisation is important and that it can provide increased opportunities to live, live and run businesses in rural areas. However, there is a lack of an overall picture of how the digitisation of society can contribute to the viability of rural areas. The goal of digitalisation policy is for Sweden to be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. The government has decided on a strategy for this work. The strategy focuses mainly on five different sub-objectives: skills, security, innovation, management and infrastructure. These areas are fundamental if we are to be the best in the world at using the opportunities of digitalisation, but that is not enough. We need to have an overall idea of what the best in the world will mean in concrete terms for citizens and for companies of all sizes, from one-man companies to groups. And that should apply throughout the country. Difficulties and challenges need to be clearly identified in order to make real priorities and positions. For example, a greater focus on climate gains, regional dissemination and labour law would have been desirable. How should we use digitalisation to make it easier for residents, companies and the public in municipalities and county councils and actively develop and expand rural areas? Above all, we would like to stress the importance of political responsibility for the opportunities of digitalisation to benefit the whole country. A digital shift places high demands on both companies and staff. Without digital skills and the ability to follow developments, SMEs in particular are at risk of being knocked out by larger giants. There the state has an important role to play, for example by ensuring that SMEs also have access to new and environmentally friendly technology research and by ensuring the supply of skills throughout the country. At best, digitalisation may bring important climate benefits as well as better conditions for the individual entrepreneur. Through new platforms for entrepreneurs, transport can be made more efficient, regulatory constraints reduced and new customers reached. But digitalisation also presents a number of challenges. A political responsibility for digital development is therefore required. Digitisation should be a tool for both small and large companies, not a tool for companies to escape tax or collective agreements. Rural areas face major challenges, not least with an increasing degree of urbanisation. Instead of a decline in public services and the withdrawal of public services, we want to see a developed policy for Sweden's rural areas. We in the Left Party want to see a strategy for digitalisation for the business community throughout the country. We want all of Sweden to grow. There is a significant risk that efforts will be concentrated in the big cities or metropolitan regions. Digital development efforts must benefit the whole country. New technology and new digital solutions can lead to development and growth throughout Sweden and contribute to new innovations. Rightly used, digitalisation may play a major role. For small municipalities, investments in digital services can be both costly and difficult to implement, but regional and national collaboration can also enable them. The Left Party is working to create the conditions for everyone to have both the right and the opportunity to live where you wish. A well-functioning infrastructure is one of the most important prerequisites both for business development and for creating good living environments where people want to live. This obviously also includes the digital infrastructure as well as transport. We see digital communication as both a key to facilitating information dissemination and dialogue and as a means of holding down the number of necessary travel and transport. The state should take responsibility for and ensure the proper functioning of telephony and broadband throughout the country. The Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development called for a more comprehensive picture of how the digitisation of society can contribute to a viable rural environment. The Government's goal that Sweden should be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation requires that we further strengthen this work. We believe that there is great potential in this area and that it should be developed.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-787	Mr President, I would like to Let me start by commending Jessica. I know it was her first time in the speaker's chair, and I remember that the first time I stood here, I was pretty nervous. I promise you harder debates in the future, Jessica, but you made a very good speech.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-788	Mr President, I would like to I would like to draw attention to the challenges of digital segregation. This segregation not only exists between town and country, but also cuts between the economic and knowledge-based conditions for individuals and entrepreneurs. I therefore believe that digital equality needs to be improved through increased access to broadband and fibre networks. I would also like to highlight the importance of broadband coordinators for the expansion of the IT infrastructure in Sweden. The broadband coordinators will support and promote the work of the regions and municipalities on broadband issues. I would also like to emphasise their important role as contact points for broadband issues for both public and private actors. In order to facilitate broadband work throughout the country, we in KD therefore call for a continued investment in broadband coordinators. Mr President, I would like to The deployment of 5G will be crucial to meet the need for higher transfer speeds, larger data sets and better quality for mobile devices. It is also a prerequisite for future technological development where an increasing number of technical units and products will require connectivity. We also believe that 5G is the next necessary step for a digital single market, which will facilitate and promote cross-border trade and exchange of services and help connect people in Europe. In our opinion, the design of spectrum harmonisation must be dealt with at a cross-border level. Through a long and harmonised license period and coordinated auction procedures, we can create a well-functioning 5G network throughout the EU. Therefore, the work on spectrum harmonisation in the EU is directly crucial for the development of 5G. Against this background, we believe that Sweden must be the driving force in the European harmonisation of frequencies for 5G and work towards the release of already identified and future 5G bands at EU level. The single market is a cornerstone of European peace and prosperity. It is therefore important that Sweden works for a common European infrastructure. Mr President, I would like to We note with satisfaction that the 700-megahertz band has now been auctioned, which in our view is a crucial prerequisite for improving broadband coverage in the country, not least in rural areas. However, we would like to stress the importance of taking into account not only civil society's need for radio frequencies in this context, but also the needs of the blue light authorities. We also note that some parts of the current spectrum space were excluded from the auction process pending the government's position on the future need for frequency space for blue light authorities. It's kind of a complicated word. It is also our hope that the proposals put forward by the state investigation on radio spectrum use in its report, Frequencies at the Service of Society (SOU 2018:92), will provide the necessary guidance in order to both ensure civil society's future spectrum needs and strengthen national security interests in the licensing of radio broadcasting licences. Mr President, I would like to I would like to point out that concerns about Postnord's organisation and financing at group level also affect the Swedish part of the company. I further note that in recent years Postnord has failed its community mission. The biggest losers in uncertain letter handling are rural residents and businesses. Structural changes are therefore needed to ensure the proper functioning of the postal service, and Postnord needs to increase its delivery reliability in order to avoid public debt collection or the risk of missing hospital visits. Against this background, I believe that the government should urgently come back with proposals for a new postal law that tightens the requirements for service and delivery of mail. Mr President, I would like to During this debate on cyber and postal issues, I cannot help thinking about Elving Andersson, the Center Party. During my more than 16 years in Uddevalla municipal council, he always mentioned Lane-Lane-Ryr. Recalling the problems of sparsely populated areas in relation to the large town Uddevalla was his signature. Now I have the privilege of recalling the same problem, but from a somewhat broader perspective. At a time when the Social Democrats and the Green Party, supported by the Left, the Center Party and the Liberals, raise the tax on fuel and reintroduce the unfair air tax, which affects everyone who lives outside the reach of the subway, someone must stand up for the idea that the whole country should live. Postnord's service should work throughout the country, and all individuals and companies have the right to a well-functioning broadband. In fact, it's not harder than that. Mr President, I would like to I support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation number 8.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-806	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with the Committee on Transport's report on IT and postal matters. First of all, I would like to support the proposal by the Committee on Transport and Tourism and reject all reservations. Mr President, I would like to We live in an exciting time, a time when we see the fourth wave of industrialization taking off. The so-called 4.0 revolution will make our world more efficient, more flexible and more accessible. Above all, it is about being able to meet wherever we are in the world. Goods, services and people are beginning to blur the hard border between countries, but also borders between city and country. It should be as easy to meet a doctor in Vedevåg as in Örebro, and it should be as easy to get its letter in Haparanda as in Lund. The fourth wave of industrialization will help us do that. We have long said that we should be the best in the world on broadband, and we are probably the best in the world at that. But we're not happy. I do not think any party is satisfied with the extension. It is not just about us being able to look at Netflix, it is a question of justice for all citizens of Sweden. Everyone, no matter where you live or are, should be able to develop their laptop, tablet or mobile and use it to facilitate their lives and get information that is important. This means that even people who are on a car or train journey or run their business should be able to easily keep in touch with their loved ones or be able to book a hotel night. According to the broadband strategy, which was decided on in 2009 and revised in 2016, 95% of all households and businesses should have access to broadband by 2020, 2023 all of Sweden should have access to stable high-quality mobile services and 2025 all of Sweden should have access to high-speed broadband. I hope that we achieve these objectives, but even if we are informed today that we will not succeed, it is important that the objectives are set and that we can follow them. Even in the January agreement, these cases are included, which puts pressure on the government to actually deliver. The Broadband Forum, which is responsible for monitoring and finding solutions for the expansion, is an important part of achieving the goals. Mr President, I would like to Although today we see difficulties in reaching the targets, Sweden is the world leader in this area. This gives us good prospects for the future. It is gratifying that broadband and mobile coverage continues to develop in the right direction. The goal of digitalisation policy is for Sweden to be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. There are two sub-objectives in this policy. First, electronic communications must be efficient, safe and robust. In addition, they shall meet the needs of users. Electronic communications shall be provided primarily through a well-functioning market, but the State shall have a responsibility in areas where public interests cannot only be served by the market. Secondly, Sweden must have world-class broadband. All households and businesses should have good opportunities to make use of electronic public services and broadband services. Where the market is unable to deliver, the state will do so. I think it is important that we get together in broad agreements so that we can achieve just the best in the world. The market has done its part, but now the state needs to step in and do its part. To achieve these two objectives, we need more broadband, and we need to expand more. There are ideas and suggestions from different organisations. Now it is up to us politicians to like them. I will listen, take on board and try to ensure that we have a faster expansion than we have today. The Government has also decided to set up a digitisation council to promote the implementation of the general digitisation policy. One of the key objectives of the digitisation strategy is to promote innovation. It is important that Sweden has the best conditions for innovation to be developed, run and used. It's not just about having new ways to meet or travel. It is also about having good competitiveness and that through these innovations we can reduce the climate and environmental impact. Innovation is a prerequisite for the public sector to find new and effective solutions to many of today's major societal challenges and to enable it to strengthen its competitiveness. These include new ways to travel, live, do business, live, consume and communicate while preserving the earth's resources in a good and climate-smart way. The government has already given various authorities the task of speeding up digitalisation. This will lead to better and more accessible data for citizens. Mr President, I would like to We can make many decisions to make it easier for companies to digitise or impose requirements on authorities to go that way, but it does not work without skills. If Sweden is to be the world leader in digitalisation, we need to have good skills supply. SKL has received extra money to increase the digital skills of management and governance in our municipalities. One area that has had poor skills is our public institutions that have not been involved in development. There are, of course, exceptions, but our citizens should be able to expect municipalities and county councils to make it easier for them to seek care, childcare or housing in a simple and more accessible way. Not least, companies in municipalities should be able to easily apply for a permit and receive information. For example, the restaurant sector is one of the most heavily regulated sectors. With digitalisation, we get a regulatory simplification for all the applications for permits that the restaurant industry needs to make. That is why this is an important initiative from the government. Mr President, I would like to In the 2018 Swedish and Internet report, the Internet Foundation notes that almost all Swedes, 98%, have access to the internet at home and nine out of ten have a smartphone. Five years ago, 1 million Swedes did not have access to the Internet. Something has happened in recent years that has made us have such good coverage. It gives good grades to Sweden. The difference before was about those who use the internet and those who don't. Today there is the difference between those who use the internet often and those who do so very rarely. Mr President, I would like to In the light of what I have said before, we are also seeing changes in the postal market. The digitalization wave means that we send fewer and fewer letters. This means that postal operators have to adapt. Since 2000, the number of letters has fallen by 36%, making political demands. While we have more and more extradition points and higher services for citizens, letters are decreasing. The conversion and future financing of letters is something to look at. Assessments carried out show that the conditions in the postal market will continue to change rapidly as a result of social developments, not least due to digitalisation. This may also affect the conditions for the provision of a universal postal service. The Government considers that the situation in the postal market is such that there will be a need to re-examine postal legislation to ensure that there will be a high-quality universal postal service in the long term throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to Although both Postnord and Citymail have done quality-enhancing measures, the number of complaints remains high. However, we note that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency continues to ensure that reliability in the postal sector will increase. New permit conditions that entered into force on 1 April 2018 strengthen the reliability requirements.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-833	Mr President, I would like to When I listen to what is said, I don't really hear any strange things; we all want to achieve the same goal, that is, that everyone should have access to good internet access. However, this is not what I reacted to when Mr Denis was in the speaker's seat. What I want answers to, Mr President, is why Mr Denis called for all reservations to be rejected. Does Denis not want those with copper wire to keep the internet until they have received fibre or other technical devices that make them have good internet connections until the fibre has been installed? I also wonder, Mr President, why Mr Denis is calling for the rejection of our motion aimed at making it more difficult for drugs to be sent by mail.
i-LTLB97My3TiWz38qk2PtEX	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jimmy Ståhl, for the question and commitment! Let me start with the first question about copper grids. I have been a local politician and know that when Telia was going to remove the copper network, there was always a good discussion with municipalities and regions about how to solve the problem. Sometimes Telia has even extended the time for municipalities to build new ones. As an example, I can mention Hällefors in Örebro, which is actually the best in the country to build broadband. It is because they have sat down and talked about this. As far as the second question is concerned, I think it is absolutely important. On all the issues we have, I think we need to think a lot longer than we are thinking right now. It is important to deal with drugs when it occurs, but we must not forget the integrity of our citizens. Not everyone should be able to know which medicine I order if I have the right to order it or which newspapers I subscribe to, Mr President. I think the issue is important, but I think we need to look at how the law should be designed. I hope that we can design it so that it actually gives effect and that the illegal parts of postal management disappear. It may be possible to do this.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-839	Mr President, I would like to Of course, you shouldn't be able to control everything. Our exercise is about when there is suspicion of drugs. Then you should be able to put away these packages and inform the police or customs so that they can come and check them. It's not up to every post office to open and check, which would be really crazy. I'm really glad Denis Begic still has this in mind. Of course, it should be properly investigated before you impose such a thing. Mr President, I would like to Now it looks like we are going to miss the objectives of the broadband strategy a little. How will Denis Begic and the government work to achieve the objectives of the broadband strategy that we are missing as soon as possible? It is important to highlight and work this out so that at least 95 percent, but preferably more, get fast broadband as soon as possible.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-842	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I think we need to think really hard about these consignments. Who should have suspicions? What's it gonna look like? Who's supposed to have the right to look? Who's supposed to have the right to open the door? The integrity of our citizens is an incredibly important issue. With regard to broadband roll-out, I think we agree that more is needed. That's what I said in my main speech. Already this year, the government has spent 1 billion on expanding broadband in sparsely populated areas. We hope that this will be enough to achieve the goals – perhaps not 2020, but at least 2021. But the important issue – as I have said in my main speech – is that the state needs to take control. With the broad deal that we have now, it feels like we are going to make it.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-845	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Denis for a good speech. I have a very brief question, a little because of what I mentioned in my main speech on the principle of location. When it comes to broadband deployment, it has emerged from the urban networks of the respective municipalities that there are concerns about building a broadband network adjacent to or even entering another municipality. For example, you may have a larger town in the west of a municipality and a small village or city far east, and it is about connecting that part or village to an adjacent municipality, which may have a larger city nearby. According to the localisation principle in the Local Government Act, the interests that the municipality wishes to satisfy must be located in the municipality. This criticism is expressed, among other things, by the Swedish City Network Association. I would like to hear Mr Denis's comments.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-848	Mr President, I would like to I thank Anders Hansson for his commitment. I have had the same discussion with the Bredbandsföreningen and Stadsnätsföreningen. We have discussed these issues. If you listened to my speech, Anders Hansson, you heard that perhaps it is time for the market to stop and the state to take over – precisely because of the things you mention. It has come to my attention that it can end at the municipal border because it is another municipality. It has also come to my attention that the urban networks of two municipalities sometimes intended to go in to take an area in common. Then the market has come in and told us to do that, and the city networks have had to move. After that, it has taken three, four, five years before the market really did. We need to take this issue seriously. That is why I said in my main speech that it is now important for the state to step into the difficult areas. That's where we are now. I hope that's the answer to your question, Anders Hansson.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-851	Mr President, I would like to I think this is right, Mr Denis, when it comes to the absolute sparsely populated area. However, this can also apply to municipalities that do not belong to the direct sparsely populated area but where you have greater distances within the municipality, without it being Norrland distance, if we harden it a little. This does not really mean that the aid is needed in the same way, but rather that it is a practical solution. If you have your big city in the western part of the municipality and a smaller one in the east, you can perhaps, instead of pulling through the entire municipality with a lead, connect to the network of a city in an adjacent municipality. As far as the long distances in the northern parts of Sweden are concerned, I fully share Denis Begic's view. I also believe that the state must go in and take responsibility, as I said in my main speech. What I had in mind was more municipalities in Central Sweden and southern Sweden where you do not have those distances, but where it would nevertheless be much more practical to enter into an agreement with a neighbouring municipality, for example, to take responsibility for the part, the village, the city or the area in question. I am not looking for state aid, but more for practicality; here the principle of localisation actually impels something that should be quite easy to arrange for perhaps two or three municipalities together.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-853	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Hansson! I think we understand the product go but maybe still misunderstand each other a little bit. I'm talking about this too. The new infrastructure authority will take care of this, and the new minister Anders Ygeman will take care of these issues. I still have great confidence in the agreement we have reached, the so-called January agreement, where we say that there are issues that we need to consider. I am new to Parliament and am responsible for these issues. There are things that have come to my attention now but that I have not thought of before. This is an example. I know that there are urban networks that have solved the issue by forming companies between two or three municipalities. In this way they have been able to do these things together and cross municipal boundaries. I know that there have even been cases of ignoring this and saying that you can build on our side, but it must not be a locked net, but someone else must drive in the very thread. So there are opportunities to do this. It can certainly be that the law needs to be reviewed. Together with the new infrastructure authority and the new minister, we will see what we can do to make things easier. Now we may need a little more pragmatic thinking and a little more reflection on how we achieve the goals we have set ourselves. These simple things shouldn't put sticks in the wheel of it.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-856	( PRESIDENT: I would just like to remind you in general that we in Parliament usually speak through the President and do not say you to each other. )
i-a4ba94530076c58a-857	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations. Mr President, I would like to We are clearly in the era of digitalisation. Most of Sweden's population use the internet daily. Most of us can hardly imagine a life without the benefits we have gained from digitalisation, with access to information and opportunities for communication. 98 per cent of Swedes have access to the internet at home, and nine out of ten have a smart mobile. Five years ago there were 1 million Swedes who were not connected. Today there are only half as many. Developing and exploiting the opportunities of digitalisation, while addressing its challenges, is an important task for society. Digitalisation has the potential to make life both better and more sustainable. It gives us new ways to travel, live, do business, live, consume and communicate while reducing climate and environmental impact. The climate issue is the destiny of our time. In order to reduce our climate impact and achieve the Paris Agreement's goals of keeping the temperature increase well below two degrees and working for it to stay for one and a half degrees, we need to change our society. For example, we need to reduce the emissions of the transport sector, which we know requires that we do not just change fuels in cars. We also need to streamline and reduce the need for travel. There is great potential for digitalisation here. The possibilities for tele-meetings and sharing documents and working tools can really reduce the need for travelling. It also offers great opportunities to run businesses in rural areas too, so that the whole country can live. Therefore, further efforts are needed to develop broadband in rural areas as well. Digitalisation also means that travelling time can be better used for work, for example when travelling by train. However, the connection here could clearly need to be improved. But with digitalisation, there will also be risks. Cybersecurity and privacy issues will continue to be very important. In his role as Minister for Digitalization, the Green Party's Peter Eriksson presented the digitalisation strategy that the Government decided on in 2017. The digitalisation strategy builds on the previously agreed objective of Swedish IT policy. The goal is for Sweden to be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. There are two sub-goals. The first is that electronic communications should be efficient, safe and robust and meet the needs of users. Electronic communications shall be provided primarily through a well-functioning market, but the State shall have a responsibility in areas where public interests cannot only be served by the market. The second is that Sweden should have world-class broadband. All households and businesses should have good opportunities to make use of electronic public services and broadband services. Of course we're at the forefront. This is stated both by the OECD and by the EU. But to remain at the forefront requires continuous work. In order to create the conditions for continued long-term and sustainable digitalisation for the benefit of social development and business, the Government decided in May 2017 on the strategy for a sustainable digitised Sweden, i.e. the digitisation strategy, which contains five milestones. It's about digital skills. In Sweden, everyone should be able to develop and use their digital skills. It's about digital security. In Sweden, the best conditions should be for everyone to be able to take part in, take responsibility for and have confidence in the digital society in a secure way. It's about digital innovation. In Sweden, the best conditions should be for digitally driven innovations to be developed, disseminated and used. It's about digital management. In Sweden, relevant, purposeful and legally secure efficiency and quality development will be achieved through digitalisation. It's about digital infrastructure. All of Sweden should have access to infrastructure that allows fast broadband and stable mobile services that support digitalisation. In order to promote implementation, the Government has also decided to establish a Council, the Digitalisation Council, which is responsible for promoting the implementation of the strategy. However, the government does not leave the issues there but has stated that the implementation of the digitisation strategy and the government's digitisation policy requires a continuous state commitment. To date, some 200 initiatives have been taken in relation to the interim objectives, as the Committee on Transport and Tourism states in the report. These include investments in the state budget, assignments to authorities and proposals and decisions on new legislation. The January agreement between the Green Party, the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals states that the digital infrastructure will be expanded throughout the country. The goal should be for 95% of all households and businesses to have access to broadband in at least 100 megabits per second by 2020 and for everyone to have access to stable, high-quality mobile services where they are normally no later than 2023. We are therefore looking forward by the Green Party to a term of office with continued high objectives in this area.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-873	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates support all their reservations in the report, but for time-winning, I call for reservation 24. We are now going to debate what is called the circular economy. These are issues of circular thinking instead of today's wear and tear culture. Working towards a more sustainable and resource efficient society is important for the future. I am pleased to say that the movements show a strong commitment to the issues of all parties. Less fun is then to read about what is actually being done. The report often refers to investigations that the government has set up or also refers to investigations that have been completed but where the matter is being prepared. It is worrying and at the same time surprising. For well, I expected that more had happened under the previous Social Democratic and Environmental Party government. It is clear that we need more workshop! What is also very significant when you read the report is the great role played by the European Union in this context. This is good because there are many cross-border threats to our environment. It is about debris in the sea, the spread of microplastics, environmental crime and that kind of threat. These issues require cross-border decisions. That is why it is really important that there are many of us voting in the European elections on 26 May. Already two years ago, the European Commission presented a circular economy strategy. It took a holistic approach and linked it with an action plan with new directives in the field of waste. It even set out how it should be followed up and evaluated. That's good. Interesting and proactive was also what they called a waste hierarchy. It is always aimed at minimising waste in society. We Moderates like the mindset and ambition of the waste hierarchy. We also believe that this is a good basis for increasing resource efficiency. But now, above all, we want to see efficiency in the government. We also call on the government, once it comes to the fore, to give priority to cost-effectiveness and regulatory simplification in order to stimulate and encourage the involvement of businesses and municipalities. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have put forward many proposals in the report. I would like to highlight three in particular. I will start with the environmental crimes, which are something we Moderates think must be taken more seriously than is happening today. They can have long-term and far-reaching consequences for humans, animals and nature. We therefore think that supervision should be tightened up, but we also see that it can be reconciled with regulatory simplifications that can and should be made. One example is the transport of hazardous waste where farmers who have changed oil on their tractors are not allowed to transport the waste oil directly to the recycling centre without having first noted this in several different documents. Another issue in this context is the effectiveness of the Swedish environmental inspections, which, in addition to being delegated to 290 municipalities and 21 county boards, imposes an operational responsibility on twelve authorities. How effective is it? The answers are given in an investigation that was presented in June 2017. It shares the view of the Moderates that the government needs better governance of environmental inspections. It pointed out at the time that a new investigation should be in place with the aim of making supervision more effective, equal and proportionate. But barely two years later, we are still waiting for the government's response. It's not sustainable. Food waste is another important issue, which mainly concerns information on how to change attitudes and bring about behavioural changes among all actors in the food chain. In Sweden, 1.2 million tons of food are thrown away every year. Let's talk about edible food. This means that one third of the food produced is not eaten. It can hardly be considered either cost-effective or resource efficient. But are we at least effective in our preventive work and in raising awareness among Swedes? That's the question. Today, three different authorities have the task of working on the issue. Regrettably, they have been assigned as temporary projects. The preventive work on food waste is also very active at EU level, where research has also been linked. We therefore suspect that coordination both nationally and internationally could be far better in this area too. We therefore believe that an authority should have the task, the Swedish Food Safety Agency, and that it should be given a permanent assignment in spreading knowledge about food waste and about the major environmental impact it has. We also believe that research and innovation can be important in reducing food waste. It is about everything from behavioral research to research on genetic engineering that can make plants more resistant to different types of diseases. A third thing is about phosphorus. All plants need phosphorus, which is a finite resource. It is therefore important that phosphorus can be returned to the fields. There are estimates showing that if we could reuse 80% of the phosphorus entering the cities via food, we could replace almost half of the imported phosphorus. At the same time, however, we must make demands and be able to guarantee that the sewage sludge does not contain any environmentally hazardous substances. In line with this, the Moderates believe that more stringent requirements should be imposed on wastewater treatment plants and that a national target for phosphorus recovery should be introduced. What is exciting is that LKAB can become an unexpected supplier of phosphorus. Recently, they announced that they can now extract and purify apatite from the waste sands deposited in the warehouses. The same sand also contains rare earth metals, which are now considered to be industrially extracted. This is incredibly interesting news that hopefully can also have a dampening effect on the interest in opening new mining sites around our country, at least for those planned in places in sensitive ecosystems. LKAB's project shows that it is high time to review the landfill tax so that its design really promotes the transition to a circular economy. This is something that we Moderates advocate because we believe that this can be an important approach to stimulating and encouraging more people to invest in new methods that contribute to resource efficiency. Mr President, I would like to As we talk about these among today's world's most important issues, climate and the environment, it is important that we see opportunities and take on board the new achievements that research and innovation can bring. But it is also about the importance of having a holistic view. The other day we received a letter to the committee. It is signed by a girl of seven years from Karlsborg. Among other things, she tells us that she has started an environmental club. We are trying to eat Swedish fruit so that the environment will not be destroyed by long transport. She also writes, "I wish that you as bestemmer would make it easier for inventors to make up a car that goes by compost." I call this a holistic approach and an understanding of the importance of research, innovation and entrepreneurship. This little girl gives hope for the future.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-896	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the circular economy today, and I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation, No 27. Globally, this is a huge problem. You don't have to go very far in Europe to get to countries where you solve your waste problems almost fully by depositing waste. They bury the garbage to get rid of it, instead of seeing it as part of a valuable circular economy. Swedish producer responsibility has an important role to play here. Strong producer responsibility helps to create incentives for the industry to provide packaging and materials that can be recycled in an economically sustainable way. This is a Swedish success story, in which we actually meet the goals we have set ourselves. Today, there is a situation in which various actors – municipalities and companies – are fighting for the right to access the waste precisely because it has value. It is also positive that increased producer responsibility is now under way. We welcome the announcements made by the government in this area, but of course we think that it could have been done in the past. Mr President, I would like to It is also positive that the collection responsibility for packaging now seems to remain with the producers. This is something we have had to debate quite a lot in this House during the last parliamentary term. It is gratifying, as it creates calm and stability in the market, so that we get rid of some of the uncertainty that has existed. Mr President, I would like to The presence of plastics in the marine environment and other ecosystems is a potentially increasing problem. The t is about between 11⁄2 and 41⁄2 percent of all plastic manufactured. It goes out into our seas. That's 4-12 million tons. This is an international problem, and Sweden should of course act nationally, regionally and internationally to intensify its work on this problem. Obviously, we have the opportunity to make the greatest difference in our vicinity of the Baltic Sea, where Sweden has the longest coast of all. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that the majority of plastic litter originates from continents other than Europe and that Sweden's contribution in this context is very limited. In order to be able to work effectively against plastics in the sea, it is essential to have an international perspective and, above all, to be careful with different types of placard policy measures in Sweden and Europe. Mr President, I would like to It is positive that there is a consensus today on limiting and investigating flows of microplastics. On the other hand, as a party, we do not support many of the total bans announced by various actors, either at national level or within the EU. They tend to lead to symbolic policy and rigid bureaucracy without measurable environmental impact, not least because they risk replacing certain disposable plastic articles with other, more expensive products with equal or even greater environmental impact. At EU level, the basic analysis is still lacking. It has not looked at what substitute products you can expect. It is not always a total ban that is the solution. Rather, it is healthy housekeeping, public education and balanced environmental debate. In this way, representatives of academia, industry and consumer organisations can map the way towards better products and healthier consumption patterns without politicians having to regulate at a detailed level. Environmentally conscious behaviour cannot always be legislated but is part of the social contract. Mr President, I would like to Environmental rules are an important issue: legislation, regulations, regulations, bureaucracy and authorities. There is today a major problem of double regulation affecting entrepreneurs. There, two or more authorities make demands that are in principle overlapping. These are rules which, in practice, could be abolished without any negative effect. We want companies to relate and report to as few authorities as possible. One example of a problem is environmental legislation, which today gives unclear information on the division of responsibilities in the case of contaminated land, for example in the case of industrial plots where pollution is caused by companies that may have closed down decades ago. They may have gone bankrupt, and there are no people who can be held to account. We want to remedy this by clarifying the current regulatory framework. We also believe that the state should provide adequate resources for clean-up in such cases. Partly for this reason, we also want to tighten the regulatory framework for the establishment of wind turbines. Calculations show that the cost of dismantling a two-megawatt plant can be approximately SEK 700 000. Today, in the worst case, it may be the landowner who is forced to bear the cost of dismantling. It is therefore important that the liability relationship is investigated and established at present. The operator of wind turbines should fund funds in locked accounts annually in order to ensure the payment of the costs incurred in dismantling.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-911	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that, of course, we support all our reservations. But for time winning, I will apply only for reservation 6, in paragraph 3. For the Center Party, the emergence of the circular economy is a necessary but also a very priority area. It is by closing the loops and by creating the political frameworks that benefit and enable the emergence of a circular economy that we take the big steps towards a sustainable society. It is when we discuss this policy that I think we are going, with respect for my colleagues in the Chamber, from a small group of environmental policy makers to the social builders of the future but also, in fact, already emerging sustainable society. It is through innovations and investments in companies that meet customers' increased demands for sustainability that the circular economy and sustainable society emerge. It is through the choices we make in everyday life, as consumers and as entrepreneurs, that the circular economy and sustainable society emerge. But it also happens through the political choices we make to make it easier for people to make the right choices. An example of this is to set requirements for product life, energy use and recyclability. These are so-called ecodesign requirements, which mean that the producer must take into account the total environmental impact of the products at the design stage. It is through this type of action that we are actually taking steps forward in the policy of sustainable society. It is also by looking at how our entire economy can play with circular behaviour, the circular approach, that we take these steps. The report now before us contains a large part of the Centre Party's visions and proposals on how to move forward several steps and on how to achieve sustainable solutions. I have mentioned the ecodesign requirements. For example, I can also mention the proposals that exist to allow companies to take greater responsibility than they do today. Today, unfortunately, we are putting barriers on the part of those companies that see a niche in the market in closing the loops, in ensuring that more consumers who have finished using their products recycle them in a sustainable way or leave them in the chain for recycling. It's actually a straight counter-example. It is an example of what we should not do to build a circular society. Mr President, I would like to Rather, we could step in and say: Here you go! Join us in building this! You make some money on the road, that's great. If we create jobs in the new green economy, it is only for us social builders and decision-makers to applaud. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, that is not the situation we are in today. I hope that during this parliamentary term we will be able to take more steps forward, because it is time to realise that a great deal of this is not just about political will. It will need more than enough of that product before we arrive at the sustainable society and before we have created the circular economy, but sometimes it is also about the realization that politicians should be able to take a few steps back. I will, for my own pleasure, give an example. We see here in Stockholm how companies that want to join and stop the cycles are actually hindered by local decision-makers. I'm sure it's all well-meaning. But it is precisely then that we who make decisions about Sweden's laws need to step in and sort out what the relationship should be between the consumer, the producer, the general and those who step into the classical economy and earn money and create social benefits and individual benefits through new business solutions. It is by all means not the only example of how we can work towards a more circular society. The agreement reached between the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals contains a number of major proposals on how we can move forward in the circular economy. It is about strengthening the development of a resource-efficient and bio-based economy. It is about carrying out a broad review of the regulations for the recycling and management of waste and residues in order to promote innovation and entrepreneurship precisely in the circular economy, which I have already talked about. It is about finding further steps and making it easier for households to recycle and recycle. Above all, there are some concrete requirements and solutions. It is a requirement that pledges should cover more products. It will be examined in this House during its term of office. It is also about looking forward and seeing what requirements we should set at the lowest level of service. This will not be politically straightforward. But with this and the examples we can take from Nordic neighbouring countries about how we are already working with strategies at social level for increased reuse and a fully circular economy, we will move our positions forward. Because of this, there are also a lot of things that I don't pick up. I have already said which reservation I am in favour of. But there are also a lot of things that we can see that I do not need to speak for or reserve for, because that is already in the January agreement. With that, Mr President, I do not want to say that it is time to rest on the laurels. All this will have to be pushed and wet in this Chamber and in society outside. But I believe, Mr President, that with this we are taking some steps forward. With the proposals developed by the Center Party, I think we could take a few more. I hope that, when we sum up this term of office, we will have taken a few steps closer to the fully circular economy. I am delighted about that, Mr President. Here we take the concrete steps – in Sweden, in our regions and municipalities – towards the sustainable society that responds to the destiny of our time: How do we build a society in which we deal with the finiteness of the earth's resources and the limited impact we can have on the environment and climate without saying that growth has come to an end and that future generations should not take part in an increase in prosperity and increasing innovation and productivity that benefits individuals? This, Mr President, is a forward-looking environmental and climate policy.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-927	Mr President, I would like to The parable of how many globes we would need in order for all to live as we are recurring. The understanding that we need to take measures to reduce our climate impact is also there. But with a more purchasing world population, our common resources are being squeezed even more. That is why today we are talking about a new way of thinking, beyond the wear and tear economy. It is a way of thinking where we take advantage of, re-use and reshape products and let them circulate. The economic system we have today is effective in that an increasing proportion of the earth's raw materials are used for human activities. Plastic packaging, for example, has increased exponentially in recent decades. When plastic was used in the 1950s, about 1 million tons per year were produced. In 2015, the corresponding figure was 322 million tonnes. Only a small part of the plastic produced is recycled or reused. It is easy and cheap to produce new and more difficult and expensive to manage what we have. A similar problem exists in virtually all other materials. This applies, for example, to textiles and steel. An increasing proportion of our natural resources are being processed into these materials, but very little is being reused. It's possible to reverse the trend. The Left Party wants to see an economy that is circular, where we do not take out more from nature than is sustainable and where what is used can be used again through reuse and recycling. This is an approach that we need to build into all industrial activities. We can do this by more clearly standardising the materials placed on the market. Part of this standardisation could be that all the materials used could also be reused. We also need clearer requirements for product design. All goods placed on the market shall be capable of being repaired or in any way reconditioned. Goods which do not comply with these requirements shall not be placed on the market. If a component of a product breaks down, it shall be capable of being fixed by replaceable parts. Similarly, it should be prohibited to shorten the life span of, for example, a phone by programming, a measure that means that you need to invest in a new phone instead of keeping your old one. In its in-depth evaluation, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency highlights the recycling of textiles, for example, as a key element in achieving environmental objectives. In 2017, Sweden imported around 14 kilos of clothing per person. At the same time, we throw over 7 kilos of textiles in the garbage every year and a very small part, not even 1 kilo per person per year, is recycled. Textiles made of cotton are resource-intensive to produce and require, above all, large amounts of water. But it is also used a variety of chemicals, many of which are directly hazardous to health. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency believes that the impact on the environment needs to be reduced both by reducing the use of chemicals and by re-using textiles as a product and as a material. The Left Party welcomes the circular economy action plan presented by the EU and also the plastic strategy which is now introducing a ban on certain disposable items. That is a step in the right direction. We know that many of the products currently produced by plastics could be produced by other materials. There, our forest will be an important element. With improved techniques to take advantage of materials and recycle it, the need to make new plastics would also disappear. The Left Party believes that Sweden should also develop a national plastic strategy that can take its starting point in the EU's plastic strategy but with sharper regulation and higher ambitions to reduce plastic's negative effects on the environment. The Government has, through the appointment of a special investigator in 2017, to review the possibilities of reducing the negative environmental impacts of plastics, laid a good foundation for such a strategy to be developed. In addition, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency identified 2017 in a government commission major sources in Sweden for discharges of microplastics to the sea where roads and tyres, artificial turf plans, industrial production and handling of primary plastics have been identified as important sources. In addition, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has also since 2017 a government mandate to propose measures and instruments to reduce the negative effects on the marine environment as a result of littering. Sweden has thus laid a good foundation for gathering solutions to the complex problems caused by our high plastic use. The Left Party believes that the European Parliament's plastic strategy is an important step towards better regulation of disposable plastic articles, although we believe that more extensive regulation is required, including plastic bags. Parliament's strategy also states that the consumption of plastic bags must be reduced in order to improve the environment and to make better use of our resources. Sweden has already taken several steps towards reducing plastic bags, perhaps mainly through the decision that stores and restaurants should inform about the environmental impact of plastic bags and help to reduce consumption. Some of the large clothing chains that were involved strongly pushed for the change reported a decrease in the number of purchased bags of as much as 60 - 70 percent last year. One of the pharmacies that reported their sales of bags had a decrease of 59 percent, corresponding to about 10 million fewer bags or about 65 tons of plastic. This therefore has an effect. This has been a good start and has also shown that consumers are prepared to change. The Left Party believes that the use of plastic carrier bags should be abolished. Several countries have already chosen to ban them, and we believe that Sweden should join these countries. I therefore support the Left Party's Amendment No 15.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-941	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Elin Segerlind, for an important speech. It is always difficult to ask for a reply on these issues because we share the concerns, concerns and commitment to doing the right thing. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you a question. It's about the plastic carrier bags. As I said, the Moderates are concerned about the marine debris, all the plastic that we see in the oceans and, of course, also the plastic that people throw around. We also support the EU's plastic strategy and the strategy adopted with regard to disposables. At the same time, there is a dilemma here. I like the facts. Last March, the Danish Environmental Board carried out a study on how many times we have to use a fabric carrier bag, and perhaps mainly organic cotton, before it has less impact on the environment than the plastic carrier bag has. It's about 20,000 occasions, which few believe. Only then is an organic cotton bag on the plus. I would like to ask Elin a question about this. I am absolutely in favour of doing business on a voluntary basis and whether they feel committed can ask whether the consumer wants a bag or not. But how does Elin Segerlind view the report launched by the Danish Environmental Board? What are her thoughts on this?
i-RKxTxdcmHkmn9ND2hzVQkG	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Betty Malmberg! I have not read exactly the report referred to by Betty Malmberg, but I certainly recognise the arguments of the previous debate. Betty Malmberg asks what thoughts appear in my head. I think that a plastic bag may not necessarily need to be replaced by a cotton carrier bag. I mentioned in my speech that textiles and, above all, cotton textiles are terribly energy-intensive, especially in the use of water. These tons of plastic may not necessarily be replaced by cotton carrier bags, but perhaps there are other smart solutions. I'm sure we can come up with something better than both textiles and plastics. Like Betty Malmberg, a large part of the plastic ends up in our nature. We also know that there are gigantic plastic areas in the oceans. Somehow we have to get to grips with this and find alternatives. In answer to Bettys's question, I don't think the cotton carrier bags are necessarily the best solution to this, but I don't think I have an alternative to them here and now.
i-F2cC3LVyJArUCc4okHvWqE	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Elin Segerlind, for your answer! I am pleased that we see the same problem in this. What we in the Moderates are talking about and would like to see is a kind of LCA analysis, i.e. a life cycle analysis. It looks at the whole from the time of production of the raw material until the product is taken care of and considered as waste and then can no longer be used. This was precisely the perspective of the Danish study. Is LCA analysis of products something that the Left Party could support? That would make it easy for a consumer to choose the right one, which is something we often stress. It is likely that the individual consumer in the store believes that a fabric bag used several times is better for the environment than the plastic bag. That is why I find the facts so interesting: what we think is the best is not always that. So would the Left Party consider supporting LCA analyses?
i-BuaCt2ZDe82viRNRm3Hu5m	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Betty Malmberg, for the question! Spontaneously, I think it is something that is in line with what we are happy to talk about. If we are to make concrete environmental changes, it must be in favour of things that not only look good on paper, but it must have the environmental effect that we want. Otherwise, time and energy are wasted. If we're going to switch from plastic, we need to find other options. As I was aware, forests and bioproducts may be at hand to take into account. No changes we make will have the result that they cost more than they taste. This is something we could certainly find a consensus on in the future. Thank you for asking.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-955	Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but I would only like to support reservation No 20 under paragraph 12 on circular food production and measures to reduce food waste. Man has a responsibility to administer the finite resources and materials of our earth. We have a responsibility to use and preserve, instead of consuming and destroying. We who live now will deliver an earth that the next generation may have as their home. Everything we do affects both us and our descendants. We call this insight the idea of stewardship. It is one of the pillars of Christian Democratic ideology and covers all areas of society: our environment, our natural resources, our culture and our own personal resources. The policy should therefore be designed in such a way that public, our companies, civil society and individuals are given the opportunity to carry out their activities in a sustainable manner. It should be easy to do the right thing both for individuals and for companies. The concept of governance extends across all aspects of sustainable development: ecological, economic and social. That is why Christian Democratic environmental policy is designed in a way that is in harmony with increased growth and more jobs. Responsibility, which is the cornerstone of the idea of stewardship, is both personal and common. Man is a rational being, responsible for his actions. She can make conscious choices to harness both her own and others' external resources. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats do not want to break up the functioning waste collection that the municipalities manage. But we also do not want a monopoly on the handling of source-sorted materials. The conditions for rational waste management are very different in different parts of Sweden. The law should make it easier for municipalities or other parties who take responsibility for solving practical problems in everyday life. It is important that source sorting is encouraged. By giving companies and producers greater responsibility and opportunities to deal with waste, new companies and thus new jobs can be created. Competition reduces costs. Companies that can and want to be able to take responsibility for all or part of their waste, including so-called household waste. Municipalities should remain primarily responsible for the combustible waste from households that is not suitable for recycling or reuse. Municipalities should also have increased influence in the design of collection systems for material subject to producer responsibility. Municipalities and property owners wishing to organise the collection of producer liability material in addition to the guaranteed level of service shall be able to do so and receive a reasonable remuneration for collected material, provided that this is done in a way that enables efficient recycling. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats propose that an investigation be carried out into how a producer responsibility for the negative environmental impact of medicines should be designed. Today there is already producer responsibility for medicines. This means that a producer without compensation should take care of waste consisting of, among other things, leftover medicines. Medications and residues of drugs in our waste water require additional treatment at wastewater treatment plants, and many times it is not enough to completely reduce environmental toxins. Madam President, I would like As I heard a previous debater say, it is estimated that about a third of all food produced is discarded without being eaten. At the same time, the pressure on our planet's resources is increasing, which places increasing demands on us to manage both food and agricultural land. Furthermore, if we are to be able to increase the level of self-sufficiency to a reasonably acceptable level, we have a long way to go. Most of the waste is done in households, but also retail has a significant food waste: about 5 per cent of total production. Today, traders do not dare to freeze refrigerated goods themselves before the expiry date. The Swedish Food Authority's regulations give the impression that this is not allowed. But on the Swedish Food Safety Agency's website, you make a liberal interpretation of your own regulations and write that cold goods may be frozen. In different municipalities, different inspectors then make different interpretations. This means that the trade is not afraid to freeze cold goods to the extent that is absolutely necessary. By doing so, we can reduce food waste, while allowing customers to buy the frozen products at a lower price, which can be of great pleasure, not least for those with low incomes. It's not wrong with the food just because the best before the date is approaching. There we also have a journey to go when it comes to smelling and tasting food to determine whether it is fit or not. That is why we are proposing to the Christian Democrats that the Food Act be clarified so that it is clear that a store may freeze appropriate cold goods. Processing is perhaps the easiest way to handle some of these goods, such as minced meat. Many shops have an oven. These stores could sell lunch boxes over the counter. If you do not have the opportunity to process the products yourself, you could collaborate with other businesses, perhaps schools or catering companies. That's a good option. This would allow these products to be sold instead of being sold. We therefore propose that the Swedish Food Safety Agency should make it clear to traders that they themselves are allowed to process their cold goods, such as chicken or minced meat. The Swedish Food Safety Agency should also be tasked with developing a guidebook for entrepreneurs on how to reduce their food waste. Madam President, I would like The public sector plays an important role as a forerunner and driver in environmental work. In many places, particularly in municipalities and regions, offensive development work is taking place, but often with an impatience to obstacles that are in the way of doing even more. There is a need for a comprehensive framework and conditions that enable and encourage a long-term and sustainable lifestyle. Different instruments, both informative and regulatory as well as economic, complement each other and can be used separately or together, depending on the area of activity. The policy should be based on the precautionary principle and be designed in such a way that public, our companies, civil society and individuals are given the opportunity to do the right thing, i.e. to steer towards good governance and sustainable development.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-966	Madam President, I would like As Betty Malmberg said earlier, we are quite in agreement on these issues. That is why the debate may not be particularly thrilling. It may also mean that you will have heard something of what I am going to say. But I guess you'll have to keep a good face and be surprised anyway. The very fact that we are so in agreement should mean that we could have a little more workshop and a little less investigation and debate on these issues. Climate change leads to extreme weather and natural disasters both in Sweden and around the world. They affect all life on earth. Lively-weight forests are destroyed, while animal and plant species disappear forever. The oceans are soiled by plastic and pollution, while the fish disappear. In order to save the climate and the environment and create a future for future generations, we must act. We must make wise and sharp decisions that make a difference both in the short and in the long term, and we must do so now. The polluter pays and green tax exchange are two important principles of liberal green policy, two principles that make a strong contribution to a more sustainable and circular economy. The use of new natural resources must be reduced and the reuse and recycling of materials must be constantly improved. Producers shall be responsible for ensuring that products can be easily reused or that the input materials can be recycled. Life and durability must be the new wear and tear. But is it really that new? If we look at it, we see that this was something that previous generations were fully aware of. They talked about quality and sustainability. It was something that was formerly hailed, but which has unfortunately been forgotten by my generation, or perhaps by the post-war generation of production progress. The fact that the use of plastics must be reduced and recycling increased is well understood by most people. Plastic is an amazing material in many areas. Unfortunately, however, it has a significantly lower recycling rate, such as glass, metal and paper. In this respect, higher demands must be placed on the producer level. Liberals already want to introduce a national plastic levy on plastic bags. We welcome the fact that many commercial companies have taken initiatives to show that the use of plastic bags is being reduced. Let me preside over Betty Malmberg's question here. I just sat here and sent a message to my colleague on the Tax Committee. With regard to the tax investigation that is now to be set up, the Liberals clearly state that this task must also include a balance between whether all plastics should be taxed equally or whether a difference should be made between plastics and plastics. It is an answer to why plastics can be good or at least less bad. Madam President, I would like In Skåne it is full spring. I don't know about you, but I'll clear the closets. This is when you realise that the reuse of textiles needs to be increased. What is not left for re-use must be better used than only as a combustible. There is a need for a collection system and more research into how fibres from textiles can be reused better and to a greater extent than today. If we stay on the domestic and everyday issues, which are easy to influence for every single one of us, we can conclude, as has been done in the past, that we must stop throwing out fully decent food. It is indeed estimated that about a third of all food produced is discarded without being eaten. This is probably an underrated figure when you add all the ranks from the farmer's discarded crooked carrot via the shops' cleansing of products that are just passing the best-before-date in some cases to us consumers when we hysterically clean pantry and refrigerators from goods that could have been placed on the table instead of in the barrel. Households must be made aware of the importance of reducing food waste. We Liberals believe that there are still a lot of gaps in knowledge to fill. More and more municipalities are actively working to recycle food waste within households and within the municipality's various large kitchens, but this needs to increase. The waste that will still be, for some waste, can then, of course, be used for the production of biogas. It can in turn be used as a vehicle fuel or for the production of electricity and heat. We all know for sure that when something becomes difficult, the will to do something tends to diminish. I am therefore pleased that there is agreement in the January agreement on a study on the introduction of new coordinated minimum service requirements for household waste, including packaging, newspapers, heavy waste and hazardous waste. Madam President, I would like Sweden is in much of an example in the field of environment and climate change. Sweden will be a driving force for the EU to meet its commitments in the Paris Agreement and for further work on the European Commission's circular economy package. It helps to reduce the amount of waste and landfills throughout the EU. Unrecycled plastic is a cross-border problem. The plastic that runs in our seas knows no land borders. Cross-border solutions are therefore also needed. Supporting the Commission's proposal for a levy per tonne of non-recycled plastic which is applied to each Member State and goes to the common budget would mean a contribution to the EU budget that is based on more than gross national income. In this way, Madam President, this debate also became a debate on the importance of the European Union and Sweden's important role in the European Union, which, of course, is always pleasing to a liberal.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-980	Madam President, I would like The 20th century was an era when the use of natural resources and materials grew unprecedentedly. Global use of raw materials grew about twice as much as population growth. We must now take strong action to deal with the demand for natural resources that a growing population on earth leads to and the pursuit of a higher standard of living. Material consumption will double by 2060 unless we bring about changes and use resources more efficiently. A transition from a linear to a circular economy requires a change in entire value chains and that we can maintain the value of the material throughout the life cycle. We need innovations, smarter production and more sustainable consumption patterns. For me as a social democrat, it is self-evident to contribute to the globally sustainable use of earth's resources. Sweden must therefore take a major responsibility to develop the resource-efficient, circular and bio-based economy. In order to do this, we need to work broadly. In its circular economy action plan, the European Commission highlights five priority areas: plastics, food waste, critical raw materials, construction and demolition waste, biomass and bio-based products. Madam President, I would like The strategy Smart Industry, the Food Strategy and the Sustainable Consumption Action Plan are important for Sweden in this work. Working to ensure that cycles are resource efficient and as far as possible free from hazardous substances is also the aim of the strategy on non-toxic and resource-efficient cycles. As a consumer, it should be easy to do the right thing, or if you want to do the wrong thing. During the term of office, several steps will be taken to make it easier to recycle and reuse. A broad review of the regulatory framework for recycling and management of waste and residues will be carried out to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the circular economy. Producer responsibility is an important part of Sweden's and the EU's efforts to prevent the generation of waste and to take care of the waste generated in the best way. Strong producer responsibility is central to creating a resource-efficient society. We will now have a tightening up of producer responsibility. During the term of office, it will be important to follow how the expansion of the near-by and block-by collection of packaging waste and waste paper continues. Further steps will be taken to make it easier for households to recycle and recycle, including by introducing producer responsibility for textiles. Guarantee requirements should cover more products, such as batteries, mobile phones and other electronics. An investigation shall be carried out into the possibility of all products having a product passport with information on what the product contains, where it comes from and how it can be recycled or taken care of. Madam President, I would like In 2017, the Riksdag adopted a food strategy for Sweden. The overall objective of the strategy is a competitive food chain where total food production increases, while at the same time achieving relevant national environmental objectives, with a view to creating growth and jobs and contributing to sustainable development throughout the country. The Food Strategy highlights the need for efforts to promote the reduction of food waste throughout the food chain from producer to consumer through, for example, increased cooperation between food chain actors and authorities and consumer information efforts. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Food Safety Agency, in cooperation with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Agriculture Agency, to work for a reduction in food waste. The Swedish measures will contribute to achieving the global sustainability objective of Agenda 2030. Madam President, I would like The littering of our seas is one of the greatest environmental challenges of our time. Single-use plastic articles account for about half of all marine litter on European beaches. The EU Directive on the reduction of the environmental impact of plastic products includes action proposals for the ten most common plastic products that cause marine litter. The main objective is, of course, to prevent and reduce the marine plastic litter in the form of single-use plastic articles and fishing gear containing plastic. The proposals cover both bans and requirements for improved waste collection, national consumption reduction targets, labelling requirements, design requirements and cost recovery requirements in accordance with the polluter pays principle. We, from the Swedish side, will also continue to push for the phasing out of all disposable plastic in the EU. Since 1 July last year, a new Swedish ban applies to small plastic particles, so-called microplastics, in cosmetic products. The purpose of the regulation is to limit the supply of plastic particles to lakes and seas. The spread of microplastics should be further prevented, inter alia, by banning microplastics in more products and prohibiting unnecessary plastic articles. Madam President, I would like We are faced with a major task, but it is important and self-evident. Increasing the use of resources and promoting the transition to a circular economy are important elements for green growth that helps to reduce environmental and climate impacts while at the same time promoting business development and creating new jobs.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-995	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Burwick, for a very well-worded speech. Marlene Burwick said we're facing a big task, and I really do share that vision. But that's precisely why you can also feel a frustration when investigations are piled up on investigations and you spend time in between. I mentioned in my speech a study on environmental inspections which states that it needs to be steered up much better. But now it has been two years, and nothing has yet happened despite the fact that the investigation advocated another investigation. We do not have that time; we must act. I would like to hear one more comment. Another issue I raised in my speech was food waste. We have, in principle, all been up and talking about this subject on the subject. But what I was going to mention here was not precisely the waste of raw materials, money and time. I didn't intend to mention that other people don't have food for the day. There is another aspect. The UN agency FAO has presented a study which has examined the impact of food waste on global CO2 emissions. What you can see is that food waste, if it were a country, would be the third largest emitter country in the world after the United States and China. This won't hold! I want an answer to one question. The government has set a milestone target for resource management that was set for 2018. But now the intermediate target has suddenly been extended to 2020 without making any correction to the percentages themselves. I would like to hear one more explanation. Is it serious that we are delaying this?
i-a4ba94530076c58a-1000	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Betty Malmberg, for the question and for your kind words! I think there is much that we agree on when we discuss and listen to each other. In her speech, Betty Malmberg mentioned environmental inspections and phosphorus as the finite resource. As far as phosphorus is concerned, the government has a u tredare in operation right now. In your work you, Betty Malmberg, often highlight the importance of research and evidence. I therefore see it as self-evident that the government is also investigating the proposals to be put on the table. I also see the signals that are being sent here as something positive, because I see that there will be a great deal of agreement in this House once the government presents its proposals based on the investigations. You also lift them up as important. As far as environmental inspections are concerned, I can see that it would have been easier to continue the work if not a large part of the money that goes to the county administrative boards for environmental inspections had been lost in the M-KD budget.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-1003	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Marlene Burwick! I am of course in favour of carrying out investigations so that we base the proposals on facts – absolutely. However, I cannot give Carte blanche because we will sympathise with everything that comes forward. That depends, of course, on the content of the proposals. The criticism of environmental inspections is shaking off. The problem in this situation is that the government sent the investigation that was presented in June 2017 out for a referral in turn, and then it has been at the Government Office again since January 2018. Something has to get the government to do something about it! Mrs Burwick did not comment on the example I mentioned that the government is extending the interim targets. It is about food waste, where it has been stated that there should be increased resource management and that efforts should be made so that at least half of the food waste from households, large kitchens and so on will be taken care of and treated biology kt. It is also about 40% of the food waste that cannot be managed biologically being extracted for energy. What surprised me and made me so disappointed was that in June 2018 the government decided to extend the interim target from 2018 to 2020 without changing a single percentage for how much to recycle. My concern is that this is so important. Just as I referred to earlier, the FAO study shows that it is important not only for the waste of resources but also for CO2 emissions. We need to see the whole picture, and I wish the government did so to a greater extent.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-1007	Madam President, I would like I would like to agree with Betty Malmberg that food waste is extremely important. That is something we need to work on at all political levels. The Government and the Riksdag do this through, among other things, the food strategy that we have adopted here with the mission given to the Swedish Food Administration and the cooperation that is taking place with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Agriculture Agency. Much is being done on this issue. However, I can only agree – and I think we can all agree in this debate – that we all need to do a lot more. This is an enormous waste, and it is one of the major issues ahead.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-1009	Madam President, I would like We continue to talk about food waste. Thank you, Mrs Burwick, for a good speech! I can support much of what was raised there. The report contains a paragraph on circular food production and on reducing food waste. There is a lot about how we can take advantage of food waste to get plant nutrients back in the soil, how we can take advantage of the energy and so on. But what thoughts does social democrat Marlene Burwick have with regard to food waste, since it is food anyway? It's about food that can be used as food. What should be done to enable us to use it as food and not for other things – even if biogas is good and the food goes back as compost and so on? However, throwing away edible food at least does not feel good to me, and when I read in the report I have not been able to find anything about it. So I have a question: What thoughts do you have about being able to use the food just as food when it is still fit?
i-a4ba94530076c58a-1013	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson! Food waste, as I said, is an extremely important issue, and a large part of the answer I want to give you is about the basis that was adopted in the food strategy. The strategy adopted in this House was to a large extent about how to work to combat food waste. It's also about finding and really working with the whole chain, from the producer right up to the fact that we have the food in our fridge or on our dining table. That is why I also think it is important that several authorities are working on the issue; there is a big point that this is the way it is. I also believe that the implementation of Agenda 2030 is important in this matter. Information campaigns against consumers are also very important. That was you in your speech, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, and I think you said very wisely. I think we have a lot to gain from information and knowledge about the food we have. There I cannot help but refer to my years as a municipal politician in Uppsala Municipality – there are several political levels, and I believe that municipalities have an important part in this. In my municipality of residence, we work a lot in school, with school students, because we have to start very early to inform and spread knowledge about what applies to this issue.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-1016	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much and I am content with that answer.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-1017	Madam President, I would like Today we are talking about the circular economy. There are many other concepts that are also used, such as circularity, resource efficiency, sharing economy and more. I think, Madam President, that the concept of a circular economy is not something that people generally use at the kitchen table, but have you ever sorted your garbage, heeled the shoes of the shoemaker, changed the feed in the favourite jacket of a tailor, upgraded a program, shopped on second hand, used a car pool, run a biogas car or travelled a biogas bus – in fact, you know a lot about circular economy. Now we need more and more modern solutions that do not damage the climate, the environment and nature. The resources must be used effectively, and the potential for success in this area is very great. Of SEK 100 spent by a Swedish household on consumer products, more than SEK 98 is spent on new purchases. Less than SEK 1 goes to repairs, and even less goes to rent things. Earth's resources are being used up at an accelerated rate. In a circular economy, resources are retained in society's cycles instead of becoming waste. We will reuse, recycle, upgrade and recreate new materials. All parts of the cycle must be connected in order for us to have a circular economy that works. We're going to move from linear flows to circular systems. The circular transformation strengthens the Swedish industry. For the industry, circular economy means achieving higher resource efficiency and extending the relationship with the customer. This is what technology companies say, for example, and in order to make more investments in the circular economy, technology companies demand, among other things, a more strategic procurement in the public sector and a focus on innovative business solutions. They also demand collaboration between universities, start-up companies and established industry. They point out that the use of recycled materials requires active chemical work – it is important to detoxify the circular economy cycle if it is to work and become profitable. Madam President, I would like The hunt for plastic is an initiative where strategic procurement is in focus. The very idea of the project was raised in Uppsala's climate protocol – Uppsala's own Paris agreement, if you like, where the municipality interacts with universities, industry, region, various organisations and so on. The combustion of plastic in Vattenfall's heating plant in Uppsala was the focus when the project was started. The combustion of plastic accounts for very large climate emissions. When the combustion of peat has been phased out in this heating plant, which takes place around 2020, the plastic will account for the largest fossil emissions from it. It is about emissions about the same size as emissions from car traffic in the geographical area of the entire municipality of Uppsala. To reduce the combustion of fossil space requires upstream work where many actors collaborate to achieve results. The large amounts of plastic are not available in plastic bags, but in packaging, in the construction sector and in various products. A large part of municipal plastic use is made up of plastic gloves. There is also plastic in cars, furniture and computers – basically in everything. Fossil plastic can in many cases be replaced by other materials, but recycled plastic or plastic made from renewable secondary raw materials is also needed. As we have heard earlier in the discussion, plastic issues are a priority in the EU's work on the circular economy. Uppsala's example can be easily scaled up to all municipalities in Sweden, but also to government procurement – and indeed to the whole world. It is a fact that this may be the case, because Uppsala has just been named the world's best climate city. Madam President, I would like The recycling industry must be developed and expanded. In-depth knowledge of new solutions is needed, for example that mineral resources can be made available through so-called urban mining. That is something that is clear from the committee's report. Madam President, I would like When I was in a clothing store in Uppsala recently, I was asked a somewhat unexpected question by the store manager. Maria, do you think that the parliament and government can do anything to keep our store in the future? I was in a well-stocked women's dress shop with quality fashion; the store Bredenberg has been in Uppsala since the 1800s. It is when you get such questions that you as a politician start thinking and asking counter-questions: How do you face the competition from e-commerce? How does the death of the store in the city affect you? Has the trend to buy used and recycled affected the shop's work? On the last question I got an interesting answer: It's quality clothes like those we sell that may be interesting to sell secondhand in the future. I think that was a wise line of reasoning from the shopkeeper. Sustainability, quality and a good service spirit will be particularly important for business development in the circular economy, and increased quality is the foundation of the circular economy. We need to tighten up the sustainability requirements for products and design. The government is now working to strengthen the development of a resource-efficient, circular and bio-based economy. Producer responsibility for textiles will be introduced and possible ways of increasing recycling and recycling will be developed. This requires a large and broad commitment from both industry and consumers and from us politicians. Much more business as unusual is needed to speed up the transition to a more climate-smart and circular economy. In the EU waste package, requirements have been made in the past on the rules applicable to producer responsibility. We need to ensure that the Swedish rules are in harmony and that administration can be kept at a reasonable level when new producer responsibility systems are developed and the old are reviewed. Madam President, I would like The Green Party has pushed for a green tax shift that can strengthen the circular shift. New economic instruments can have positive effects. The Hyber deduction is included in the January contract – a tax reduction for consumers who have expenses for services related to the rental, second-hand repair or repair of consumer products. The Huber deduction will be able to extend the life and use of consumer products, strengthening the ability of small businesses as well as innovative start-ups. Saved resources will be saved money for the consumer. I think we need to find ways of thinking new about the price of goods. We need to start thinking much more price per use when it comes to clothing, for example. The government has also taken a number of important initiatives in various areas. There has been a lot of workshop in the area of circular economy. Among other things, household waste collection is the very basis for increasing the collection of food waste, which creates better opportunities for the production of biogas and biofertilising. Fossil free Sweden's road map work for fossil-free competitiveness is also very important to strengthen work on plastic issues, the circular economy in most industries and in the grocery trade also when it comes to the issue of food waste. Madam President, I would like to welcome all the members of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture and in this debate to Uppsala to look a little at strategies that the grocery trade has chosen to reduce food waste. There are very many different strategies already in use today, and there is much more to discuss. Madam President, I would like Finally, we note that the World Wildlife Fund presents the ecological footprint every two years. If all people had the same footprint as we have in Sweden, it would take four globes. That is, of course, the very basis for us to prioritise these issues even more, and a lot of business as unusual is needed.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-1034	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for your speech. As a pennang to all the fantastic words about Uppsala, I can still tell you that it was Linköping who was the first municipality to take on the biogas. Östgötatrafiken's first buses were rebuilt in 1992, I think it was, and biogas engines were installed. Enough said about municipalities and municipal struggles. What surprises me in Maria Gardfjell's speech is that she believes that there has been a lot of workshop in the area of circular economy. This shows so clearly with what different eyes we can read these kinds of reports. I would appeal to Maria Gardfjell: we need more workshop! If Maria Gardfjell thinks that the government has had enough workshop, I would nevertheless like to say, Madam President, that much more is needed than has been achieved so far. Madam President, I would like Maria Gardfjell also talks about the importance of detoxifying cycles. I fully share this, and on the part of the Moderates, we have therefore also said that we want better and tougher demands on the treatment plants. I refer back to phosphorus as finite resource. We want to set national targets, but we also want to make sharper demands on the treatment plants to actually do their homework and make sure that the sludge is cleaned. In this way we also get the purification of drug residues. Could Maria Gardfjell applaud and support the fact that we are getting that kind of investment? We consider it necessary.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-1038	Madam President, I would like I would first like to inform you that Linköping is also a good municipality. Linköping has a very close collaboration with Uppsala in the search for plastic. We have also received money from the EU to work on this together. I am surprised that Betty Malmberg has not noticed how much is happening in this area. Sometimes we politicians think only of our political world. We see this House, and we see the Parliament House. If we sit in a municipality, we see the municipal building and the organisation of the municipality. But the fact is that what politics has achieved in recent years is that the business community and various actors and organisations have become very active in this area, and cooperation between different actors is required for us to have a workshop. In particular, the work with Fossil-free Sweden is one of the ways of working that has benefited the workshop in this way. I am surprised that the representative of the Moderates here today does not appreciate what the Swedish business community is doing. As far as the tougher demands on wastewater treatment plants are concerned, as former chairman of Uppsala Vatten, I can say that this is an extremely important area. But it's not as easy as just making demands on the treatment plants. There is also a need to make demands on what is upstream, i.e. all the industries that can have emissions coming to the treatment plants. We also need to think about what is in the food we eat and then end up in the treatment plant. After all, we place higher demands on what comes out of the treatment plant than what we place on the food we eat.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-1041	Madam President, I would like I am sorry that Maria Gardfjell put words in my mouth and feel that I do not appreciate what business is doing. But I have not told you at all that that is where the shortcomings are. The shortcomings are in the hands of a government that does not carry out its mission effectively. It is from there that the long-term conditions must come so that the rest of society also knows what is most important. These are not just my words, but are also stated in various studies that appeal and say that we need to achieve more coordination in relation to environmental inspections, for example. The Swedish National Audit Office also has its views. This must be taken on board by government-supporting parties. We can't keep stacking investigations on each other, because we don't have that time. We've talked a lot about food waste today. One method and one technology that we have not talked about, however, is genetic engineering and genre editing. What, then, could it do? The thing is that with the new type of technology, a type of modern plant breeding, we could increase resistance to diseases in different plants. The technique is called gene scissors or CRISPR/ Cas and has been shown to have rapid effects precisely when it comes to producing a plant material that has higher tolerance levels in different ways. It can be against drought or other circumstances in the plant environment where it exists. I would like to hear the Green Party's view on the use of genetic engineering, because it is a research that is at hand.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-1046	Madam President, I would like The government has certainly taken many important initiatives, such as what Mrs Burwick mentioned earlier about phosphorus. The whole phosphorus issue is now under investigation, and important decisions will be taken shortly. In the meantime until 2025 we receive a household collection throughout the country. There are also a huge number of initiatives in the January agreement, where we have both green tax exchange and deposit systems and a wide range of investments in the area of return. On the other hand, Madam President, I would like to say that the GMO issue hardly belongs to the circular economy issue. It is incredibly far-fetched to claim that because the sustainability of different food commodities is so much about the whole food chain. It is not just about the quality of a seed, it is about the whole development. Plant breeding is of course extremely important in many ways, but it can be done with many different techniques.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-1048	Madam President, I would like Since the industrial revolution, man has made tremendous progress. We have managed to produce things with such efficiency that today we have raised our standard of living several times over. But it's had a price. While overall world consumption has risen, the pressure on the planet has increased. There's a connection. If everyone were to live as we do in Sweden, it would require four planets, but we only have one. We can no longer regard what has previously been regarded as negative externalities in the economy as minor side effects. This is what has led us into the climate crisis and the mass extinction of species that we are experiencing today. The high level of consumption that we have today is not a human right, but literally limits the living conditions of future generations. We must quickly reduce the pressure on the planet and move to a circular economy as much as possible. A conscious consumer must today almost have a master in environmental science in order to scan various chemicals, calculate the environmental impact of transport and estimate whether the product has contributed to the destruction of important ecosystems to be manufactured, not to mention the overall assessment of the environmental impact of the product after it has been consumed. It therefore requires a great deal of knowledge and energy, time and commitment, and often costs more. Unfortunately, it is a small part of the population that are such ideal consumers. About 98 per cent of Sweden's consumption is new consumption. This despite the fact that many things and gadgets that we own are not used more than any per mille of their lifetime. A drilling machine is used on average only 15 minutes but is owned by many who were really just looking for a hole in the wall. We must make it the norm to divide things instead of owning and recycling instead of throwing. Madam President, I would like In a circular economy, the value of products and materials is increased or preserved by upcycling or eco-design. Waste and resource use are minimised and resources are maintained in the economy when a product that has reached the end of its life cycle can be reused and added value created. Both the EU and the UN aim to increase the circular economy. The Environmental Protection Agency recommends it, and that is an important goal for us in the Environmental Party. But, Madam President, it is not only desirable but necessary. Constantly increasing material consumption does not fit into circular society and restricts man's freedom from materialism. Circular economy helps to find happiness beyond material things and helps people to meet. Madam President, I would like The Green Party has previously introduced the REP deduction and reduced VAT on certain repairs. We want to make it cheaper to rent, buy used and repair through a so-called hyber deduction. It is a tax reduction for households when they repair, hire consumer products or buy services to resell second-hand products. Public procurement in Sweden has annual sales of SEK 550 – 600 billion. There are great opportunities to promote circular business models and apply climate requirements in the procurement process. We have good examples of clothing libraries and car pools where people share and rent clothes and cars if necessary as well as repair shops where people come to patch and fix instead of throwing. Municipalities should promote this by offering re-use and repair facilities, for example in connection with libraries, where citizens can borrow tools and be helped to use them. Madam President, I would like Many people are ready to change their habits, much more than we might think. However, in terms of moving from linear to circular economy, we must help. We cannot place the full responsibility on consumers.
i-a4ba94530076c58a-1057	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry, I was sloppy. I would just like to put on record that I am in favour of reservation 17, the Liberals' motion on other plastic issues.
