i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-3	Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I'd like to endorse reservation 5. Financial stability is the basis for our entire economy, for households to consume and for companies to invest. It is the basis for more jobs and for the funding of welfare. To this extent, financial stability is a very central issue for the Swedish parliament and for the whole country. The global economy remains strong but shows signs of slowdown. Interest rates have been low for a long time, resulting in higher risk-taking and rising asset prices. There are risks linked to international developments that can affect financial stability in Sweden. Examples of this include trade disputes and the uncertainty surrounding the economic and financial impact of Britain's withdrawal from the EU. In addition to these risks, structural problems remain in the euro area, including in the banking sector, and public finance problems, not least in Italy. Since the financial crisis, many developed economies have pursued an exceptionally expansionary fiscal policy. Central banks have kept key interest rates very low for a long time and have taken historically untested measures in the form of so-called quantitative reliefs. Expansive monetary policy has helped economic recovery but has at the same time created an environment where financial vulnerability may have been built up. The long-term low interest rate level has led investors to seek more risky assets in order to achieve a sufficiently high return. As a result, risk-taking has increased and asset prices are very high in a historical perspective. This quest for returns is a global phenomenon. Both internationally and in Sweden there is a risk of major corrections in asset prices and high turbulence in the financial markets if the willingness to take risks quickly changes. About 70 per cent of Swedish households' mortgages are taken at variable interest rates, which means that changes in interest rates quickly have an impact on household interest costs. Households' interest expenditure, both in absolute terms and as a proportion of disposable income, is therefore expected to increase in the coming years. Most people estimate that high household debt is the greatest risk to the Swedish economy; the overall debt ratio is currently over 185 per cent. However, as monetary policy becomes less expansionary globally, interest rates are expected to rise in the future. This should slow down risk-taking and slow down debt growth. Of course, a controlled return to a more normal level of interest rates is good for the stability of the financial system, but the long period of exceptionally low interest rates has led to considerable uncertainty as to the extent to which vulnerabilities may have been built up. It cannot therefore be excluded that the return to more normal interest rates can be turbulent, with corrections in asset prices. However, most of the evidence suggests that the boom peaked in the first half of 2018. The economy is now entering a phase of slowdown. We know that financial crises are costly. Robust regulatory frameworks are important, and the credibility of the fiscal framework is extremely important. One of the objectives of economic policy is to stabilise cyclical fluctuations. High unemployment over a period of time can lead to increased unemployment later. In order to pursue an active stabilisation policy that mitigates the impact on the most vulnerable, dampens the rise in unemployment and avoids savings in recession, significant surpluses are needed in the economic boom. Economic downturns and crises always hit those who are already most vulnerable and in greatest need of well-being and a secure economy. A cautious and moderate fiscal stance in the economic boom provides a country with more opportunities to cope with the subsequent recession. A key element in preventing the next crisis is strong public finances. The use of good economic times to prepare for bad times is a fundamental principle of responsible fiscal policy. Unfortunately, the present government is making a significant departure from this principle. Sweden currently saves considerably less than in any of the recent booms, which means that we are less equipped when the next recession comes. I am convinced that the government has made a historic mistake by fuelling the boom with an expansionary fiscal policy rather than strengthening the state finances and implementing the structural reforms that would have been needed. Sweden is now extremely vulnerable to the next recession.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-18	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with the report by the Committee on Finance, Financial Stability and Financial Market Affairs. It is an important block of exercise demands that affect everything from macroprudential supervision and household indebtedness to the banking and financial markets. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 11 and 12, and it is also these that I shall mainly dwell on today. To begin with, I would like to mention the anti-competitive conditions in the pension insurance market. If you want to change insurance companies, there are so-called removal fees that must be paid by the policy holder. These are charges imposed if you want to go to another company, i.e. to an assumed competitor. These removal fees have in recent years been on the wallpaper in media contexts due to their size and nature. The Competition Authority analysed this in a report in 2016 and concluded that lock-in effects were created in this market and that the cost had to be borne by consumers in the form of high removal fees. Moreover, these removal fees have been increased in several steps, which is of course an advantageous arrangement for operators who make it economically difficult and administratively burdensome for the individual customer to replace one insurance company with the other. From a macro point of view, it limits the very foundation of a market economy: the power to act as a consumer in a free market and to choose the player who offers the most favourable conditions. It is this picture of problems that our motion was based on. We also take note of the Swedish Competition Authority's recommendations on a number of changes to remedy this situation. What is needed is, firstly, to limit removal fees and, secondly, to limit in time how long these removal fees may be charged – measures that our Nordic neighbours have already introduced. When I was up and talking about this a year ago, a preparation was going on at the Government Office which went in the same direction as the proposals put forward in our motion. We have not yet seen the results of that work, but a bill has been announced and will be submitted to the Riksdag in May. We look forward to seeing it. Hopefully, it contains the necessary regulatory changes to address the problem. Mr President, I would like to Furthermore, I shall touch on an issue which, in many ways, also seems anti-competitive. The vast majority of people have or will at some point apply for a loan promise in order to finance a home purchase. In this context, credit information is provided to the person claiming a loan. Credit information is currently requested for various reasons and contains different levels of information depending on who requests it and why. In general, however, a credit information contains information on income, loans, credit notes and previous credit information. The saved credit history and its duration represent a balance between a functioning credit market with risk minimisation on the one hand and the consumer's ability to conclude credit agreements on the other. If you apply for loans from several banks, for example in order to reduce the interest rate, the same amount of credit information is recorded, which the prospective creditor can interpret as planning to take out several different loans, regardless of whether they are set off or not. That, in turn, reduces creditworthiness. The system is, of course, legitimate in itself for banks to be able to carry out their risk assessments. What is questionable, however, is how long such data, so-called requisition data, should be stored. A little background to this is that it was the then alliance government in 2010 that changed the credit information law's elimination period from three to one year, and that is what is still valid to date. The proposal then justified the decision with the problem picture that I just described. I quote: a person may, for a short time, be subject to several requests from credit information companies without, in practice, having any impact on creditworthiness. ..................................................... What was discussed at the time was a complete ban on the processing of data on the grounds that it leads to a disproportionate interference in personal privacy, but it was very wise to limit this data from three to one year. However, this supports the argument that several recent requests burden credit rating more than several which are spread over time. If it is a risk behavior that you want to be able to call with this law, it is the receipt of loan applications to the right and left with high intensity that you want to access. I think it is time to reconsider the current regulatory framework and see if it is possible to modernise it, so that it does not exclude those with healthy private economic practices, and increase competition by giving customers greater flexibility to play out banks' interest rate offers against each other but at the same time counteracting over-indebtedness. I don't have any exact answers as to what it would look like. I leave it to the profession to have views on that. But one concrete thing you can look at is whether it is possible to have better information flows so that the lender can see how many loan offers you have accepted and rejected, which is not possible today in a six-week period. My ambition is, in case, to put this issue on the agenda and, in the long term, to see if there is a basis for examining the matter in parliamentary terms. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would also like to comment on the somewhat unusual alliance formed around reservation 1 with L, KD and SD. As a social conservative, I think it is important to safeguard the precautionary principle in all contexts, particularly in economic policy. That is why we want, among other things, to step up interest rates by one percentage point per year for five years, and then to evaluate the effects of this before possible progress can be made. In accordance with the same principles, we relate to amortisation requirements. We pushed for the first, but were against the second stricter amortisation requirement for the simple reason that two years is too short a period to evaluate the effects of the first requirement adequately. These are major interventions in the functioning of the housing market. The thresholds in the housing market for young adults were already high before. We believe that it is necessary to assess the impact and effectiveness of the first requirement before taking measures that raise the thresholds even further.
i-5MppRdb5oy1NrMvRDE8ZC7	Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 6. Time and again, we can share in fat headlines about the greed of the banks and what it leads to. It is cum-cum scheme, money laundering, tax evasion, tax evasion and guidelines that are flawed on key issues. The question is, how many times do we have to take it? For our part, patience has really run out a long time ago. Last autumn, Sweden's consumer organisations showed that Sweden's seven largest banks follow only one third of the international guidelines developed by, for example, the OECD on tax evasion, while the banks have contacts, business or activities in various tax havens such as Luxembourg, Switzerland and the Cayman Islands in the Caribbean. Of all the areas that consumer organisations looked at, tax evasion was precisely the area that banks were absolutely the worst at fighting – not surprising. Tax evasion is, of course, an area that is also full of different forms of grey scales, and that requires that you, as a bank, produce your own compasses. For banks operating in countries where there is an unnaturally low level of taxation and strict confidentiality, which are used by companies and private customers to hide money, that is of course even more important. One can say that the banks' compass seems to have led them seriously astray, for what happens when banks contribute to allowing people and businesses to engage in money laundering as well as tax evasion? Well, welfare is being removed from the resources needed to shorten the queues for health care, for the children in preschool, to get more young people to go through school with full grades and to get an elderly care that meets the needs of each individual elderly person and takes advantage of its ability. The banks contribute to the fact that all of us who do not have that morality to engage in tax evasion, evade money from taxes, or do not have the means to do so bear a greater burden than we would otherwise have done. Internationally, there is a debate on the role of banks in aggressive tax planning. Banks, audit firms, tax lawyers and consultants make a lot of money from providing advice and services that lead to tax evasion as well as aggressive tax planning. It is clear that these advisers are an important part of the so-called tax evasion industry. It is therefore a good thing that, following an agreement with the Left Party, the government has set up an investigation to force them to report new tax schemes. The European Commission has also put forward proposals requiring banks and other financial intermediaries to report in advance all cross-border tax schemes made on behalf of customers if they have certain characteristics to the respective national tax authorities. In principle, all financial assets are invested with banks or other financial institutions. In fact, one could say that without banks, no transfers to tax havens. For example, one problem we have with today's fines is that banks and other large companies have so much money that the fines are not dissuasive. One solution could be to impose asset-based fines, as the UK has done. It introduced in 2017 provisions on asset-based fines for the most serious cases of tax evasion abroad. The fines start from what is the lowest of 10 percent of the value of the assets and 10 times the lack of tax revenue. This should also be introduced by Sweden. Another possibility to stop banks' involvement in tax evasion is to ban letterbox companies and limit the possibility of using shell companies but also to question the banks' permission to operate in Sweden. Banks make money by participating and helping their customers in this, and so their interest in dealing with the problems is rather weak. But if their condition is part of what they risk, morals might be somewhat higher. Therefore, the government should have it investigated whether banks that repeatedly commit tax evasion or aid in tax evasion should lose their right to act as a bank in Sweden. This would be a reasonable measure. I would also like to mention that banks should be obliged to provide cash. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to touch on the issue of household indebtedness, as this is part of the debate being held here today. The creditors chose to abolish the property tax during their reign and instead introduced a so-called property tax, which contributed to a sharp rise in property prices, not least in the big cities, where luxury villas with high rates received halved tax while rural areas received increased tax. At the same time, interest rebates were retained. These, as everyone knows, are a ticking bomb in the state budget, but they also benefit debt and thus the banks. Thanks to these so-called reforms and non-reforms, household indebtedness rose rapidly, and we are at the top of the debt. In the Swedish housing shortage, people are allowed to go into debt over their ears. The Left Party was quickly out and demanded measures to increase housing, but the bourgeoisie did not want to know this. Nor did it feel that the interest rebates were something that needed to be taken into consideration when we raised the issue already in 2011. At that time, we also raised the issue of an amortisation requirement, but neither did the citizens, unfortunately, want to join in, nor did the Social Democrats. If we had done this then we would have had a different situation now. Perhaps we would not have needed the latest stricter amortisation requirement, and we might not have needed the mortgage ceiling. For the Left Party, interest deductions and property taxes are the most important. If we begin to scale down the interest rebates, we can ease the stricter amortisation requirement and the mortgage ceiling. In addition to these measures and building more rental apartments, we believe that banks should be forced to negotiate with their mortgage customers on the basis of what is called Stibor, i.e. the internal bank rate. If the banks were forced to do so, mortgage customers would have more power to squeeze down their costs, i.e. pay lower interest rates on their mortgages and thus amortise more. Such a model has been introduced in Finland, and we think it is very interesting and should also be introduced here in Sweden. I don't think the banks want that, but it would be good for the mortgage customers.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-50	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to say that I support all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats in the report, but for the time to come, I am content to ask for the approval of reservation 1. It is above all this reservation that I intend to talk about here. We are discussing financial stability. It is incredibly important that we manage financial stability, but it requires an overall analysis when we take measures to safeguard it, because it has such a large impact on, for example, the housing market and can lead to lower mobility and less supply, which drives up asset prices and can damage financial stability in the long term. It is therefore important to carry out an overall analysis, and I believe that this has not been done with regard to the credit restrictions. During the last parliamentary term, the new Red-Green Government implemented too few reforms to facilitate construction. Instead, an expensive and inefficient policy was put in place that provided multibillion-dollar government subsidies to developers. At the same time, many households with stable incomes saw their opportunities for loans strangled when the government, without its own comprehensive analysis, approved the introduction of the enhanced amortisation requirement on top of previous credit restrictions. The increased amortisation requirement received a lot of criticism during the consultation round and has now been around a year. Several critics pointed out that the proposal was in danger of making it significantly more difficult for young and other poor households to borrow and thus buy a home, especially in growing metropolitan regions. This will be a constraint for enterprises and the public sector, which need skills. When these groups do not have this option, the alternative will be the secondary market, with often significantly higher monthly expenses, or other inferior solutions, such as expensive newly produced rental apartments. Thus, groups are driven into forms of housing that are significantly more expensive and at risk of creating poverty traps. We see, most recently in Finansinspektionen's new analysis, that the blank loans are now increasing, and this can be an effect of the attempts to get around the strengthened amortisation requirement. Mobility risks reducing as the requirement is only imposed on new loans. The low-retirement elderly are suddenly forced to amortise large sums just because they sell their old home and move to a new, equally expensive home. Is this an effect to be achieved? In Finansinspektionen's analysis, we can also see that it is precisely the oldest borrowers who have changed their behaviour most, due to the increased amortisation requirement. Is this the effect you want to achieve – that older people should not be able to move to adapted housing? Then you've done it. Of course, after just a year, not all the consequences have been fully analysed. Since the requirement was introduced, however, housing construction has decreased, and many households bear witness to difficulties in obtaining and managing housing loans. The projection of construction starts points to a halving of construction by 2020 compared to 2017. This, of course, has several reasons, but the increased amortisation requirement is increasingly cited as a major cause. The previous government did not want to listen to its Minister for Housing on this issue, but chose entirely the perspective of financial stability, but an overall analysis of the consequences. How is the functioning of the housing market affected, which groups are facing difficulties and how does the increased amortisation requirement fit into the whole of the credit regulation wave that the Swedish housing market has undergone in the last ten years? Now the government has placed financial markets and housing issues in the same ministerial portfolio. This is a good thing if it leads the government to seriously address the functioning of the housing market and people's opportunities to enter the owned housing market. That is where credit regulation is central. It is right to face over-indebtedness with political measures. It is also right to amortise its loans and that the amortisation culture has been too weak. But it is hardly right that first-time buyers and those who move on the housing market should bear this whole burden. If we sum up the effect of the stacked credit regulations on each other, a problematic picture emerges. An interest rate of 7 – 8 per cent is to be met, and up to 3 per cent of the loan is to be amortised per year and 15 per cent in a down payment. For a household in Stockholm that buys a two-bedroom room for 3 million, this means that the bank must test for expenditure of 18 800, when the actual housing expenditure may be 4 000 k r onor, according to a report from Veidekke. Thus, there is a difference of nearly 15 000 a month that must be fulfilled, and then the household must have almost half a million dollars in equity. What young households can do this if they do not have rich parents willing to do it? The example shows how post-regulation regulation has been applied without anyone taking proper account of the whole. We are now seeing a sharp decline in the share of households that can receive loans compared to before the increased amortisation requirement. We're gonna take this debt seriously. In the event of a crisis, it can have significant spill-over effects. At the same time, however, answers are needed on how people with stable incomes can demand housing, especially in new productions that are particularly affected by the rules. Is a mortgage cap of 85 percent needed when a young person with today's amortisation requirement will own more than half the apartment after just 14 years? Should young households, with often rapidly rising incomes, not be able to demand owned housing as mortgages are required at the beginning of their housing career at 3 per cent? I would also like to highlight the distribution problem that I think it means that it is only the households that are moving – first-time buyers and those who are moving – that are hit by these credit restrictions. Other solutions that can dampen the build-up of debt, such as slowly decreasing interest rates swapped for other household reinforcements, therefore need to be examined. Much suggests that the credit regulations, despite their good purpose, are unwarrantedly hard on households and that this also carries significant risks for Swedish growth and the Swedish economy. It would therefore be welcome if the Parliament could today accept reservation 1 which removes one of these credit restrictions, namely the increased amortisation requirement. I would also like to say a few words on the issue of cash. I think it is incredibly urgent and good that a united Riksbank Committee has now presented a partial report on cash, which I myself and Emil Källström from the Center Party have been pushing for. Cash is still important for a significant part of Sweden's inhabitants, for associations and for companies. We cannot accept a system in which cash is settled entirely without parliamentary and government control. That is why we have now made a proposal from the Committee that the big banks should take a special responsibility to ensure that there is within a reasonable distance the possibility of cash withdrawals and day cash handling. I think that this is extraordinary and look forward to the government presenting a bill that actually does something about the rapid cash settlement, which does not benefit people who do not keep up with electronic development, people who are involved in associations in rural areas or people who run small businesses. These people should also feel that there is a legal means of payment, that there are opportunities for day cash handling and other things, and that this possibility should actually be improved and not weakened. That is why I am so pleased that we were able to present this joint interim report and that, if the government chooses to put forward a bill accordingly, we will now have a regime that actually secures access to cash. It is important for individuals, it is important for small businesses and it is important for associations, but it is also important for Sweden's readiness that we actually have legal means of payment that also work in the event of a crisis.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-66	Mr President, I would like to I asked for the floor when Jakob Forssmed began talking about overall analysis. I would like to make a description of the Christian Democrats' overall analysis of housing policy. We all remember the bottom plates that stood and stopped all the buildings – the so-called Odell plates – when the Christian Democrats were responsible for housing policy, when the housing subsidies that existed were removed, and the effects that it had. All housing production was stopped then. Then the then Christian Democratic Minister for Housing came to the conclusion that the parents could well pay for the children's loans instead. He even felt that two bails for a family were not a major problem. Then came the fantastic property tax, which meant that those living in Danderyd got halved property tax, while those living in Kiruna got a 76-percent increase. What was the result? As a result, all households became more indebted because house prices rose sharply. At the same time, the Christian Democrats chose to retain the interest rebates that were clearly linked to the property tax. As the property is an asset, people had the opportunity to deduct interest. That, of course, also pushed the increase in costs. What are the Christian Democrats doing now? They are withdrawing existing investment aid that has led to the construction of Hudiksvall, Värmland and around the country. And what does that lead to? As a result, housing stops again, such as in Tierp. I forgot to mention a reform that was also presented by the Christian Democrats, namely that of second-hand rents. You had to take out almost any rent you wanted. That would solve the housing crisis. Friggebods would also be built. I do not think that the Christian Democrats should talk so much about taking responsibility for housing policy. I would be very happy if the Christian Democrats were to stay away from housing policy. It would be good for anyone who thinks we need to build up the housing shortage.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-71	Mr President, I would like to Ulla Andersson made many points in her speech. I find it sad if she thinks that we should be kept away from housing policy, because she actually loses an ally on certain housing policy issues. This applies, for example, to the interest rebates. I think we have a distribution problem on the housing market today, where those who try to enter the housing market have to bear too much of the burden of increased indebtedness. With a slow reduction in interest rates, I think we can ease some of the credit restrictions that now prevent many households from actually entering the housing market with owned dwellings, as many households want. When you look at what the Left Party often argues for, it's about rentals. It can be an excellent accommodation for many people during a period of life. However, for many with stable incomes who want to root in one place, it is often the property that is in demand. Then there is a policy that makes this possible. That is why, today, we are calling for a reservation to actually remove the increased amortisation requirement. Ulla Andersson can support this reservation, so that more people with stable income have the opportunity to enter the housing market with owned housing. We recommend a housing saving, so that more people will actually have the opportunity to save up for a cash deposit for a dwelling. These are important reforms in order for more people to have this opportunity. We also see that we can use the muscles of the public a little more and even actually help and provide collateral for a starting loan for households, as many other countries have, so that even households with a little lower income should actually have an opportunity to enter the housing market with owned housing. An owner-occupied dwelling is often cheaper over time and also better in terms of distribution. I'm not ashamed that we took away the property tax. It forced people from house and home because the neighbor sold expensively. It's a system we shouldn't have back. If the Left were to prevail, the property tax would be higher for every household in Sweden.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-76	Mr President, I would like to Jakob Forssmed from the Christian Democrats talks about distribution problems, i.e. a party that made sure that the owner of a giant villa in Danderyd with swimming pool, 28 rooms and tennis court pays as much in property tax as the owner of a small wooden house in Kiruna. Then I do not think we should talk about distribution problems. Is it something that Christian Democrats' reform has led to, it is a huge redistribution from the poorest households to the richest with all the contributions that you have been involved in introducing and with the removal of property tax? What the Left Party wants to do is introduce a progressive property tax, so that you pay more in tax for the villa in Danderyd than for the villa in Kiruna. Wouldn't that be a reasonable model? In fact, I think most people think so. People do not think it reasonable that Sweden as the only country among the OECD countries in the rich world has a regressive property tax, i.e. a tax that is not linked to the value of the property. We tried to get you to agree to a limitation of interest rebates already in the 2010-2014 term. Were you interested in that? No, not at all. Instead, you proposed that we should have friggebods and introduce usury rents on the secondary market. I'm sorry about that. It would have been great if we had imposed restrictions on interest rebates then and a cap on the amount of interest deducted. That would have been great. We also proposed an amortisation requirement. You didn't want that either. I guess it's a good thing you're awake now. But if you are to be listened to, everything happens about ten years too late. It's still pretty boring. In addition, you removed investment aid to build rental apartments. We need more rentals here in Sweden. People want to live in rental apartments too. People want to be able to move where they can get a job. We don't want a segregated housing market. Therefore, it is also very important and good that there is investment aid for the construction of rental apartments. If it is some form of housing that is financially disadvantaged by the state, it is the right to rent. And I have not seen that Jakob Forssmed has any proposals on this, rather the opposite.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-80	Mr President, I would like to That the Left Party wants to raise the tax is not news. It's usually a standard solution to most problems. We saw a real estate tax problem. We saw that people actually felt a lot of insecurity in their accommodations when the neighbor sold expensively, when the valuation values went away and they simply didn't have the money to pay the property tax. A house is not an ATM where you can withdraw money to pay a sky-high property tax, which may have gone off with 10 000 kroner. These are the tax principles you have to consider: Should there be high taxes at all times, or should it be when you make a profit, earn money or withdraw money– which you also have to pay the tax with? We differ from the Left Party in view of this. We believe that there should be predictability in the tax system. People should not feel insecure because they do not know what tax will befall them, and the old property system was, of course, an expert at causing just insecurity for people in their homes. We made sure that insecurity disappeared, and I'm pretty happy and proud of it. That is not to say that we do not have much to do about these issues today. Ulla Andersson has obviously had quite a long time, on many issues. I have been arguing for a few years for the change in interest rebates, and I supported the first amortisation requirement that was introduced. I thought it was the right thing to do, and there I think we were doing the same thing together. So that's good. However, I interpret Ulla Andersson's speech here as saying that Ulla Andersson does not want attefallshus. She does not want to improve the possibilities for individuals to rent part of their private dwelling. I think it is excellent if we can use the existing stock, the existing properties, better than we are doing today to increase opportunities for people to live somewhere. I believe that we need all these opportunities, not major limitations in what we are going to do.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-84	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals support reservations 1 and 7 in this report. We think it is important to talk about financial stability. For us Liberals, this is largely a question of international cooperation, but much can be about what we do nationally. I thought I'd get to that. Liberals want Sweden to participate vigorously in the European work for our financial stability. That is why we should back up the idea of Sweden participating in the European Banking Union. We can participate, we can participate and we should participate. I would like to emphasise that, as the report points out, we have a strong tradition of participating in international economic cooperation. This applies from the World Bank to the IMF and regional development and investment banks. Not least in our international aid work, it is often about building long-term sustainable, strong institutions in the programme countries in order for them to manage economically and build strong economies. It is about lifting countries out of poverty and giving people the opportunity for prosperity and prosperity – what we so easily take for granted in Sweden, Mr President. I would like to emphasise that global trade in stable conditions and resulting prosperity, including our welfare in Sweden, is central. This is particularly true in Europe and in the countries cooperating with the EU for greater free trade. Countries that build walls and isolate themselves rarely do well. I also think it is important to have a perspective when we discuss it. Financial stability in Sweden has not been clear over the years. One can well remember the speculative economy of the 1980s – although it was in the 1880s as well – which led to Sweden suffering from a terrible financial situation. It was almost a collapse. That was at the time the interest rate was slightly higher than today, namely 500 %. It was certainly temporary, but the interest rate situation was quite different – and anything other than normal. We know that the background was that people before us in this House agreed on increased costs: everything would be for everyone, and it was very easy – but nobody wanted to finance it. This led to an economy that went awry, which has been described very well by the former Social Democratic Minister of Finance Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt in his book All these days. This is what happens when you do not behave, do not take responsibility, are not long-term, are not sustainable and do not have a financial framework. We have learned this. We have learned from the Swedish financial crisis, and we learned from the Swedish banking crisis that took place before the last banking crisis in Europe, where Sweden did relatively well. We have built up new institutions and new financial frameworks, and we have not rarely done so together with other countries. The most important thing, Mr President, is that the effect of this was a terrible disaster in terms of welfare and for individuals. That is what we are supposed to protect, and that is why this is perhaps one of the most important social policies we can discuss in this House – that we have functioning, strong financial institutions and that we have financial stability. Everything else leads to poverty, and the most vulnerable tend to suffer the worst. What about today? The spring outside; the curtains have even been pulled down for the windows outside, to avoid the sun. But winter can quickly come back. The spring equinox may well be set, say some, when it comes to a global outlook. Well, we'll have Brexit in a few days. In fact, we do not know what this can lead to, but it is a rather dangerous situation. We know that the trade war is increasing – extreme nationalists such as Donald Trump and others are doing everything to build walls and tear down bridges to reduce trade and reduce the stability that lies in our dealings with each other together. Here it is gratifying that the European Union is a strong counterforce that concludes new trade agreements with Japan and Canada, but trade wars are a threat. Several of the reports referred to in the report say about environmental disasters, and we know that there is a risk of demographic structures collapsing. Then there is the economic situation in general. Nationally, one can surely say that there are some threats that need to be mentioned in this context. This concerns the rather serious situation we have in some of the supporting, major Swedish banks and the discussion on money laundering. It's about money laundering that's criminal and that could be about getting away from tax. We must ensure that we, the Finance Committee, are doing everything we can to get the Financial Supervisory Authority, the Financial Police or other actors there, but perhaps, by extension, the banks themselves should ask themselves what they are doing. How can it look like this? How can they operate in the Baltic countries and receive customers of whom a clear majority seems to have been more or less problematic, according to the reports that are coming? Or are the reports made up? Here we have an important piece of work ahead of us in the Committee on Finance. However, I would like to emphasise that this may affect financial stability, which causes interest rebates and other things to fade in comparison with the Swedish economy. It's a matter of building trust. As I mentioned, we had a financial crisis and we took a lot of new measures. Now we stand here and look at what we're going to do to get ready. We feel reasonably strong and know that – apart from the money laundering case, which we have not yet seen the end of – we can make decisions in relative security and order. In this situation, it is essential for the Liberals that we participate fully in European cooperation, and then the Banking Union is possible for us to participate in. It gives us the opportunity for stronger and broader supervision, and we have stronger opportunities for crisis management. I believe that in the future we will see a deposit guarantee at European level, with a backstop. We Liberals think that we should at least call for observation posts with a great deal of force now. It is good that there will soon be elections to the European Parliament, because these issues will be discussed. Where do we want Europe? What do we, who send MEPs to our joint work in the European Union, want? What are they gonna stand for? For the Liberals, the Banking Union is a key issue in terms of financial stability. Together we are strong, but alone we are only alone. I see that my speaking time is coming to an end, Mr President, but I will say something briefly about the amortisation requirements. I think Jakob Forssmed argued well for reservation 1, which we are three parties behind. It is about the fact that the stricter requirement is counterproductive and risks harming more than it helps. The fall in production and the fact that there are too few homes in circulation must, of course, be met with measures in housing policy and fiscal policy. It is, of course, time for the interest rebates now. If we don't do it now, we'll miss the chance, because the cost to individuals will be too great. To conclude, Mr President, this is a thorough report. These are important issues that are constantly on the agenda, and ultimately it is about welfare. I hope that what is in the January agreement can affect some of the structural measures that we need to take in the future. It is important, because what we learned from the 80s crisis, which led to such vulnerability, also led to reforms. That is why we will be talking about liberal reforms in the future in this House, which are about taxes, integration, labour law and rental regulations.
i-8MCkm3j3masnXX8yPuHdeo	Mr President, I would like to The House today has to deal with the report by the Committee on Finance on financial stability. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected. The area of financial stability includes a great deal: everything from the function of the global economy to the smooth delivery of payments in stores. But in common is the need for reliability and stability. If we look outside Sweden, we see a series of risks to keep an eye on, and I intend to lift three of them. The first is the risk of trade wars, as specifically pointed out by the IMF and the World Bank. However, it is important to remember that this issue is decided by no chance, but by political decisions and by the attitudes of decision-makers. The position of the Social Democrats is clear here. We stand for a Sweden that is open and that affirms trade. We are sceptical about protectionism – for both growth and social reasons. States should not join one another. In addition, the international discussion on trade is now spreading the view and understanding that the growth that is taking place should benefit everyone. In English it is called inclusive growth. In Sweden we call it Social Democratic policy. It is a growth and distribution policy for well-being and cohesion. When we share the fruits fairly, we also follow a positive view of cooperation and transparency. The second risk is Brexit – which Brexit now becomes. This is where we all live in uncertainty. But of course the government is making all the preparations that are possible for the economy and relations to run on, regardless of outcome. The third risk is that several states in our near world have worryingly high public debt. This combined with the fact that they have not recovered properly since the financial crisis, that unemployment is high, that there is significant inequality in the countries and that this is happening in a situation where the economic boom is waning makes the situation of course very worrying. It is worrying not only economically and financially, but also, of course, politically and socially. But this issue is not decided by chance either, but is determined by politics. If we look at Sweden, the risks here are comparatively few and small, but one risk that should be mentioned is high household indebtedness. This is highlighted by both the Riksbank and the Financial Supervisory Authority. A healthier housing market is desirable and necessary. In order to remedy the problems, the government has made significant efforts, and I intend to highlight two of them. One is the reinforced amortisation requirement, which was introduced at Finansinspektionen's initiative. The demand has had a dampening effect on mortgage growth and has led to a more moderate price development of housing, which is good for households. It is good for more people to enter the housing market, and it is good for stability. The second effort that the government has made, and which is structurally very important, is substantial investment in housing construction. During the last term of office, up to 60 000 – 70 000 new homes were built per year. This will, of course, continue to be a priority for the government. More affordable housing is important, not only for the balance but also for the well-being and labour market of the whole country. In addition, it is important that people have work and that they have fair and good wages with safe conditions so that they can also pay the rent for a sensible accommodation. This is connected. Another important issue for Sweden, which concerns many citizens of our country, is the availability of cash. There are good arguments for securing the availability of cash through political regulation. The Riksbank Committee's interim report proposes this very thing. We Social Democrats believe that the large banks should be required by law to provide cash and daily cash handling within reasonable distances for the citizens of the whole country. We also believe that banks that do not comply with the requirement should pay fines. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to say that the reasons why we regulate our economic and financial systems are that they should work better in the interests of the citizens and that we should avoid severe economic crises because they always affect ordinary employees hardest. It should therefore be stressed that Sweden's economy is well managed and that financial stability is high. Thanks to a responsible economic policy, the Promised Government has turned its deficit into surplus, and its public debt is now record low. This gives us the opportunity to strengthen social structures and to face societal changes, and we are equipped to face any difficult times. The clouds of unrest hovering over other states are kept away in Sweden. Economic growth, fair distribution and stability affect each other in a whole – a whole that we Social Democrats will always take responsibility for.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-117	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Björn Wiechel, for your speech. I was gonna ask you a little bit about that whole thing. You mentioned two measures. One was the increased amortisation requirement, and the other was an increase in construction. But these measures are mutually opposed; they are not part of the same whole. Now we see a strongly declining construction, with many pointing out the first measure as the cause of the strongly declining construction. Then there is not really a working whole. The government can in itself try to compensate this by pumping out inefficient billions to the construction of rental apartments. But we also see in surveys that many people want to live in a owned dwelling and that these opportunities are now decreasing. I have a specific question for Björn Wiechel. Finansinspektionen now shows that those who have changed their behaviour most are the oldest borrowers in the housing market. Is that what you and the government want to achieve with the increased amortisation requirement? Would you like the oldest to remain in their homes instead of moving to more adapted accommodations and then be hit by strong demands for amortisation?
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-121	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. First of all, we must take seriously the risks identified by the high level of debt. It is a responsibility we have, because this is the single greatest risk. It was for this reason that the proposal for a reinforced amortisation requirement was tabled. Of course, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has the task of both monitoring developments and reconsidering such developments in the future. We shall review all regulations on this basis. There is a slight flaw in Jakob Forssmed's argumentation. We heard a long story about all these young people who don't get into the housing market and the reason for it. Now he is raising the question of the elderly. The problems faced by young people in entering the housing market are due, first, to the fact that there are sky-high prices and, second, to the fact that too few housing are being built. The amortisation requirement has meant a moderate price increase, which means that more people have access to the market. The government has also built housing. I read Jakob Forssmed's article in Today's industry about housing construction – interesting in many ways. We have a responsibility here not only to look at housing construction and what you call housing careers for certain Stockholm groups. We have to look after the whole country. Jakob Forssmed calls it ineffective, but there are many who have called us from all over the country and been concerned about the M-KD-SD budget that took away support for housing construction around the country. Many people got the coffee in their throats when they realized the breadth of your budget policy. It is important for the whole country that we ensure that a housing infrastructure that is able to cope with the labour market and well-being is provided.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-126	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I note that I did not get a reply at all to my question about the oldest mortgage holders and their growing concern about moving. According to Finansinspektionen, it is those who have adapted most to the new policy. I would like to ask two other questions. The interest rebates are not mentioned at all by Björn Wiechel. That would be a way to change the distribution of the burden a little. We agree that we should have measures that reduce indebtedness and dampen developments with increasing indebtedness in the household sector. Slowly reduced interest rates are one way of doing so in a much better way in terms of distribution policy, as they meet all mortgage holders, not just young households who want to come in or the oldest households who want to move. I think this should be in every government toolbox at this point. However, I note that the Social Democrats are constantly ducking on this issue. Here would be an answer in its place: Why is it not prepared to do this? It could also lead to a review of the credit restrictions which in Björn Wiechels's world are apparently quite unproblematic but which in fact cause some mobility problems and other things in the housing market. I would also like a clarification of what was said in a previous reply: is it Björn Wiechels's view that more first-time buyers have access to the market for owned dwellings after the introduction of the enhanced amortisation requirement? That is what was claimed in the correspondence – that more people have this access. Is it correct to understand that Björn Wiechel believes that more people have access to the market for owned housing after the introduction of another credit restriction?
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-129	Mr President, I would like to What I see as a problem is precisely the greatly increased loan and that people do not enter the housing market. We had a few years when house prices rose by 30 per cent over a short period. It goes without saying that there are many who are unable to face it. One major obstacle in particular for new entrants to the housing market is self-financing. Well, that's the single largest part, isn't it? Sounder price developments mean that fewer are eliminated and that more people have the opportunity to participate in relation to other economic growth. It is important that people are not kept away from the housing market by price increases and that we do not have a loan that is a systemic risk. This interest-rate thing is very interesting. We are to have a tax review as part of the January agreement, which is welcomed, and there, of course, the housing issue comes up. As we have noted, this is connected. The question is what you want to solve. Do you want to solve household indebtedness? Do we want to resolve a tax policy issue? Do you want to get housing started? Is that everything? Is this to be compensated in another end of something else? Of course, this affects households' finances, and none of us want to drastically change the conditions for households. This must therefore be added to a larger agreement. I think it is important to mention the distributional effects of both housing construction and indebtedness. We think it is urgent to look at the whole country and all the income groups in this.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-133	Before I take the floor, I would just like to put a question of control to Johan Pehrson, on his previous speech. Then he said he was behind reservations 1 and 7. Does this imply a request for approval of both reservations?
i-6191321c12bd486a-0	That is correct, Mr President. I'm a little rusty. I commend them. )
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-134	Mr President, I would like to I was going to focus this speech, which is actually my first in my capacity as a Member of Parliament, on the issues of the housing market and the challenges we face with regard to household indebtedness. It is clear that the risks associated with household borrowing remain high and pose a risk to the stability of our economy. We must take this very seriously. We have today received information from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority that the measures taken have resulted in households taking on new debts having changed their behaviour and taking lower risks. It must be seen as a good thing from the point of view of the desire to ensure long-term stability of the economy. At the same time, it is clear that we have groups in Sweden who find it difficult to enter the housing market. We have groups that need to seek out the homelessness assistance of social services, although they do not have any kind of social problems and are therefore not intended as recipients of such measures. The common factor for many of these people is that one lacks a connection to the housing market, and that can prevent one from entering. That is why we have a common responsibility to lower the thresholds for both rental and owned housing. On behalf of the Green Party, we have proposed to look at whether government rent guarantees can be a method. We have looked at Finland and seen that it is successful there. The municipal rent guarantees have never been here, but perhaps a new, reformed system can help some. A bospar account is another issue that we have raised and that we want to investigate more closely, to help more to the first loan to the owned dwelling. Many people want to own their home, and as we see it, everyone who wants it and has a stable income should actually be able to own their home. However, we must also have a policy that enables the construction of rental apartments throughout the country. We have a very uneven housing market that is overheated and weak at the same time in different parts of the country. I, who have been responsible for housing construction in a city like Malmö, know that both can be accommodated within the same municipality. It can geographically be very close between a deficit upwards and a much too weak housing market where it is almost impossible to get to build mainly ownership rights. Here we need a job. The January agreement clearly states that we should work towards increased mobility in the housing market. I share Johan Pehrson's hope that this can form the basis for structural reforms, not least linked to the tax review that is also to be carried out. It is time, of course, for us to find a model for the responsible escalation of interest rebates, for example. I see that, on the basis of the January agreement, we have good opportunities to promote greater mobility and thus also for a more equal housing market in Sweden, while taking responsibility for the economic stability of our country.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-141	Mr President, I would like to Foreign theft leagues increase their activity in Sweden. Half of all housing offences in Sweden today are committed by international theft leagues. The typical criminal is between 20 and 30 years old and commits the same crime in several different EU countries. These people usually make their way to Sweden with the help of passenger ferries. We believe that customs needs additional resources in order to increase the number of customs officials by 500 in the forthcoming term of office. Thanks to the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats adopted in this House in December, we are taking the first steps towards this expansion. Customs also needs to be given increased powers to stop and investigate vehicles with stolen goods on their way out of the country. It is also necessary to obtain the authority to detain persons who have been found with suspected stolen goods. We also see that cooperation within the EU needs to be stepped up. Today's announcement to the Government takes a small step in the right direction by allowing Customs direct access to personal data in passenger registers. It is a decision that the Customs and the Police Authority believe would facilitate the work of the agency. It is also to be welcomed that the governing parties are devoting weight to this issue, but I note that they did so only when it became clear that a majority in the committee had run over them on this issue. Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the committee's proposal and therefore both the proposal and the motion by the Centre Party and the Liberals.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-146	Mr President, I would like to The EU's data protection reform, the Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Directive provide protection for individuals and digital privacy. That's good. However, in order to facilitate law enforcement, among other things, there is a law on passenger hostages that states that carriers are obliged to provide information to the Police Authority on who is transporting. What's the purpose? Yes, it is facilitating border control in order to combat crime and terrorism. As it is today, the police are responsible for this register. The case is about direct access to the register instead of the government, as it originally proposed, issuing regulations on who should have access to the register – today it is Säpo and no other authority. As we have heard, the Customs Service expressed in its referral a desire to have direct access to the register. The police authority supported it and believes that the aim is to strengthen the Swedish Customs Agency's ability to help identify and intervene against international theft leagues. I think, like the previous speaker, that it is strange that the government did not attribute direct access to the Customs Service in the bill from the beginning. The assessment that deciding on a specific regulation would work equally well was originally made when the Passenger Register Act was established in 2004 – 2005. That's 14 years ago. It looks a little different today. The terrorist situation is different and crime and theft leagues take other roads and work in other ways today. Therefore, the Finnish Customs should, when it can, be able to contribute and quickly. We believe it can through this direct access. Although it is only a matter of facilitating personal control, this is necessary enough for the Finnish Customs to be able to do the important work on law enforcement together with other authorities. Other measures will have to come back to, for example, to change the customs authorities' powers. I am pleased that the committee as a whole supports the motion of the Centre Party and the Liberals and looks forward to the proposal being implemented by the government. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-152	Mr President, I would like to This is ultimately about the difficult balances that we are making with other countries within the European Union, the European Union, that is, how we balance integrity and efficiency with each other. There are a number of different interests and regulations that are designed to protect the integrity that is important to us people, that is, that the state should have a need, a purpose, and there should be proportionality if it is to intervene, and that law enforcement authorities should be able to intervene. The great openness that we have in Europe and which is so worthy of defending, we Liberals believe, must be followed by the fact that there is an effectiveness in law enforcement. If we have free borders within the framework of the European Union, which creates the opportunity to travel, train and work everywhere in Europe, we must unfortunately hunt criminals who get around and exploit this freedom in a negative way. In this specific case, it is about us in Sweden to ensure that we have effective border protection for our part. Then it is central that we are exercising from the Liberals and the Center Party here that border protection can also be maintained by customs. The Swedish border is protected by the police, customs and partly the Coast Guard. Above all, however, customs services in some areas may be given an enhanced opportunity to examine passenger registers and see what is there. Another issue, Mr President, which we have debated many times here is what the passenger registers may contain and what markers should be included in order for us to be able to detect in time, for example, international theft leagues, which were mentioned here earlier and which can be a huge scourge, or terrorists from anywhere in the world who want to blow up something in Sweden and kill us because we stand for Western democracy. What should you register, what should be passed on and who should be allowed to watch? Mr President, I would like to I note that the whole committee supports the Liberals' and the Center Party's motion. This is also a lesson for the House. I believe that it is in the committees that matters will be decided during the term of office. It matters what motions we write in the parties and that we find broad solutions. I am pleased that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have adapted and that they quickly joined the Moderates and Christian Democrats. I support the proposal in the report, Mr President.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-158	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by calling for the approval of S, V and MP's reservations 1 and 2 in the report. What we are now debating shows a little how good Europe can be. This is Europe at its best. This shows that the EU is based on a solid foundation built on faith in the principles of the rule of law. The EU has stated in directives that we are now going to improve access to suspects' defenders. This is the third directive that is on the same track, and what we are discussing today is not whether or why but how we are going to implement the directive. The Legal Aid Directive leaves the Member States free to choose their own path. But it is not unreserved. It sets out a clear framework within which the national states can do so. The committee has taken a position on a concrete proposal drawn up by the government, which falls within the scope of what is possible. In brief, the proposal is that, during the periods of time that the court is not open, the Prosecutor's Office should assist with the temporary appointment of counsel and the provision of legal aid. The proposal is based on a well-thought-out basis, I mean. The prosecutor is already on permanent alert today. The D.A.'s appointment shall be examined after the decision has been made. It is therefore an interim decision to be reviewed and reviewed. When, according to this proposal, the prosecutor appoints defenders at night and weekends, the same legal requirements apply as otherwise. These are high demands for us to have high quality legal assistance. What do the referrals say? The majority of the consultation bodies support or have no objection to the proposal. These include the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, Svea Court of Appeal, Södertörn District Court and Uppsala District Court. On the table today we also have a proposal in a committee motion to have on-call on the courts instead. It's not clear. We do not know what it will cost, but there is reason to believe that it will be very expensive. We should remember that the Government has commissioned the National Court of Justice to make proposals for a legally secure and resource-efficient system for expanded preparedness for urgent decisions regarding the appointment of public defenders at district courts. Extended preparedness refers precisely to preparedness outside the ordinary office and emergency time of the courts. This is expected to be in place on 1 January 2020. Every squandered chandelier is a theft from the people. And the Swedish people cannot afford to be robbed, given all the challenges we face. The resources of the justice chain must be put on the right things so that we can have the most legally secure, effective and confident legal system possible. If we do not implement this directive in time, we risk incurring extensive penalties. Millions and millions of periodic penalty payments are money that could be used to strengthen the justice chain. How is it justified not to implement the Legal Aid Directive in order to avoid periodic penalty payments? I do not believe, given what I have said so far, that this is where the battle should stand for the rule of law in Sweden. This is not where we should put the gunpowder on that debate. There are many other important issues. The Moderates tend to challenge the limits of the rule of law on many issues in the debate. On this issue, however, we have a proposal that has been worked out. We have the opportunity to allow the prosecutor to make an interim decision so that a court can then review and reconsider. I believe that this is not the fight if the rule of law stands. Pending that the National Courts will present proposals on how courts can also improve their opening hours, within existing appropriations, there is no need to rush into anything else.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-170	Mr President, I would like to This is yet another good proof that European cooperation is so important. When we have more and more of a community in order to obtain freedom and justice in our part of the world, to preserve peace and to combat extremism everywhere, it is also important that we have effective legal security mechanisms, such as the right to legal aid. If you become suspected of a crime in Örebro on a Saturday night, you should no matter where you come from know that there are common regulations. The same applies if you are suspected in Frankfurt on a Sunday night. That is what this directive is about. It has taken the government some time to come up with this proposal. They thought that they found a rather good shortcut by abandoning an important principle found in our Swedish rule of law and in the European rule of law heritage of divided functions. So we do not have what is called a chain of justice, which is a concept which I admit I too use carelessly. There's a chain from arresting someone on the street. But the court is not part of a chain. The Court has a unique role in what can lead to a process. That's what this is about. That is why many defenders – of course – and many representatives of courts but also prosecutors have pointed out that it is extremely inappropriate, not least for reasons of principle. Sweden would not dive into a large grave for lack of being a rule of law because of this. However, it is important, in principle, that the prosecutors have a very important role to play in fully enforcing all decisions to be taken during on-call time. It could be a search warrant, picking up people and so on. That's their role. Moreover, pursuing defense lawyers, who are reasonably asleep somewhere, is a task they feel they should not have. Then one must find a role here, as the government itself has now arrived at under the gallows after this ran into patrol in the committee. So you can find an on-call service at the Swedish courts. I find it difficult to see, Mr President, how in the age of digitalisation it can cost millions of millions. I guess it was 2 million that the previous speakers referred to and not millions of millions. That is how much it cannot possibly cost. It is more than any judicial system in the whole of Europe costs. The Liberals support the proposal in the report. It is important to uphold that principle. Mr President, I would like to We are also in favour of our Amendment No 3, which raises the question of the possibility of assisting children under the age of 15. The current regulatory framework needs to be strengthened. Young people suspected of serious crimes should be given a strengthened right to public defenders in addition to what is currently in force, even if they are not of criminal age. It is linked to other discussions, which we are not supposed to have here now, about the importance of using more evidence and other things. But this is central. More and more young people under the age of 15 commit crimes. It is important that it is properly investigated and, for reasons of legal certainty, the young person should have better access to public defenders, regardless of what vile acts are suspected of. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report and this reservation.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-179	Mr President, I would like to The Legal Aid Directive is, as its name suggests, an EU directive. We, like other Member States, are obliged to implement it. In committee, a majority voted down the bill. We will see how things go here and what possible consequences there will be. There is a risk that Sweden will suffer from periodic penalty payments. Even if we do not yet know how much it will be, we at least know that it is money that could have been used for other purposes, such as more police officers. The money is part of this, but the question is also what this is supposed to solve. It will solve a problem that actually exists, namely that people arrested by police at night when courts are closed do not get an appointed defender and then may be released. This, in turn, may have the consequence that it becomes more difficult to investigate crimes. It may also be more difficult to have those who have committed these crimes convicted. In the proposal of the bill, the idea is to overcome this problem. The objection that it is fundamentally wrong for prosecutors to appoint defenders is quite correct; that would be a problem in principle. But, Mr President, that is a problem which, in my view, could be overcome, at least during a transitional period. It is possible to see a system in which we agree, in consultation with, for example, the Bar Association, on lists. A few hours later, when the court is open, you would have the opportunity to change defenders in case you are not satisfied. Setting up an emergency court would be better. We agree on that. It is, however, something that has not yet been clarified. An investigation will take time and cost money. It would have been possible to issue a notice on an emergency court and still make the change now and implement the directive in the proposed way. Unfortunately, Mr President, it is chosen not to do so. On the contrary, the Moderates and other opposition parties want to condemn the proposal. Surely they will blame the government. But if you are the one who makes a decision, you are also responsible for the consequences. In the event that suspects will be released, the Moderates are responsible for it because of the situation that has arisen. Mr President, I would like to I hereby agree to reservation 1.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-185	Mr President, I would like to The background to this legal aid directive is a decision of the European Parliament in 2016. So it was a few years ago. As others have described here, it is a matter of establishing minimum rules for legal aid to suspects and accused persons in so-called criminal proceedings. Basically, there is something positive in the directive. It is about strengthening the rule of law. This means that the right of access to a lawyer shall apply from the time when a suspect or accused person has been informed that he or she is just a suspect or accused of having committed a crime. The aim of this is to strengthen legal certainty across Europe. The Directive requires a decision to be taken by a competent authority. It also emerges that it should be done without undue delay. The starting point, as stated in the Directive, must be an independent authority or a court. So far, so good. Today, however, we have a system whereby in some cases, especially on weekends or late evenings, this falls slightly between the chairs. The division of a public representative is not always as urgent as would be justified. Against this background, the Government has presented to the Riksdag a proposal whose proposal means that the directive will be implemented through a very new principle in Swedish legislation. The prosecutors must be given the opportunity to appoint public defenders during evenings and nights when the courts are not available for a decision. That is what we are going to consider here today. A majority in this House is extremely sceptical about the government's proposal. If this were implemented, it would mean a very clear departure from an absolutely central principle of Swedish law: that public defenders should be appointed by a court. I think that this can be objected to for both reasons of principle and legal certainty, as the committee's position also shows. Several consultation bodies have been critical of the proposal. I note, for example, that the Swedish Bar Association points out that it is important that the prosecutor is not only impartial but that he appears impartial to the suspect. Ultimately, this is about legal certainty. A person suspected of a crime should be able to be absolutely certain that he or she receives impartial support in this and that there are no other ulterior motives. It is therefore a question of legal certainty. Legal certainty is a concept that you can relate to in a slightly different way, perhaps depending on how important you think it is. As an example, we can take the principle that we just heard from the speaker's chair, namely that legal certainty costs money. Millions of millions, I think the words were. Yes, legal certainty may cost money. And does Mr President know what? Legal certainty may have to cost money because we think that it is genuinely important that the suspect is supported in a legally secure way. The Directive will be implemented by 5 May this year. I therefore share the government's assessment on at least one point, and that is that it is rather urgent. I can also note that the decision on the directive was taken in 2016. So it is two and a half years ago, so it has not been so urgent. There have been plenty of opportunities and weeks, months and even years for the government to screw on a good solution that both implements the directive and safeguards legal certainty. In our motion, we have pointed to the possibility of introducing a court stand-by. It is gratifying that on 7 March the government suddenly turned and changed its feet. Now you will quickly investigate the possibility of a court-martial. That is extremely positive. But it would of course have been excellent if this insight had reached the government a few months ago, a few years ago, two years ago, or why not two and a half years ago, when the decision was made. This will be a bit of a conversion under the gallows, but better late than never. I hope, of course, that this will not mean that Sweden will receive a penalty payment. That would be most regrettable. In Sweden, however, it is the government that is setting up investigations. It is also the government that appoints investigators, writes the directives and puts proposals on Parliament's table. And it is the government that should ensure that there is a majority in this House for what it presents. If the accident is there and there is a penalty payment, the responsibility for it falls entirely to the government.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-195	Mr President, I would like to I think this is the kind of debate that does not benefit from being so polarised. There are many decent parties here who want the same thing. We want legal certainty, and we want to go to Europe on these important issues. The question, as I said at the outset, is not why or whether we should do this, but how. Now we have a situation where we have to deal with this. If we do not have the necessary preparedness, we risk that victims of crime will lose their rights because they cannot hold interviews and such things in time. It's serious. We have to deal with this. Then there are different ways. Now the National Courts Board has been tasked with looking at how courts can act outside their opening hours. It is about getting legal certainty and investigating this properly. Against this stands a motion that steps forward and takes steps towards a situation with uncertain costs. Nevertheless, we must have the cost perspective and see if we can achieve the same legal solution in other ways. In the given situation, we must keep our hearts warm and our heads cold. We must do what guarantees us all a legal process but not throw money into the sea by using it for things that do not bring us closer to what we want to achieve. That is why I think we should approve the reservation that Mr S, Mr V and Mr MP have left.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-198	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Lantz for his reply. I can agree that there should be no unnecessary conflict. But here we think differently. It's quite obvious. For us in the majority, it is a very strange approach in principle to allow prosecutors to appoint their public counterparts. It is a completely alien bird in Swedish legislation. That is why criticism has also been very tough and harsh, both for reasons of principle and for reasons of legal certainty. It's no stranger than that. I note that Mr Lantz repeats the section on economics. As a moderate, I think that you should skimp and rub taxpayers' money and not raise taxes unnecessarily. But the rule of law is something I think can cost, because it is very important. It is a central foundation in our Swedish society, something that we value very highly. I can only regret how things have turned out. The government and the Social Democrats have had plenty of time for this. In October 2016, the Directive was adopted. Now that we are standing here in March 2019, it is suddenly the opposition's responsibility what can happen in the future. Where is the self-criticism? Well, that's a question. Why have the government or the Social Democrats not endeavoured to find a solution to such a controversial issue when making a proposal that really means breaking new ground in law? Why has no effort been made to give a signal, to make a statement, or to hear what others think and think? Here comes a bill – crash boom! This is to be implemented tomorrow, and if it doesn't work out the way we want it to be the opposition's fault. That's how you act, Gustaf Lantz. I'm sorry, but I don't think it's really serious. Better late than never, but the awakening of the government should have come a long time ago.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-203	Mr President, I would like to Legal certainty must, of course, cost. It is not a question of compromise. It should be borne in mind that, according to the proposal, there is a very limited scope for the prosecutor's ability to act in order to appoint a representative. This can happen when the court is not open. In addition, there is the possibility of ex post verification, review and review. But that said, we are striving for the same thing. When I hold negotiating courses I usually say: Don't be content with asking the question what you want – ask why you want it! In this case, I think we want this for exactly the same reason. We in the government have opened up to courts to take more of these decisions by screwing the organization that exists. In fact, I think that Mr Forssell's speech is breathing: at last we have to beat the government's fingers! Such underlying interests on such important and urgent issues jeopardise the confidence of voters in politics. Instead, let us resolve the situation together! In essence, I believe that we want the same thing and that the way there is now defined by the directives given to the Court of Justice and the mandate given by the government. I cannot see that this would in any way jeopardise legal certainty. What scares me is if suspects are released before they have been questioned because there is no order in place.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-206	Mr President, I would like to The difficult thing about legal certainty is not to stand in a speaker's chair and say the word, but to follow it, even with regard to things that may not happen very many times in a year. On the very occasions when it happens, it's black or white – either you protect the rule of law or you don't. I have heard two arguments from the Social Democrats against the proposal to strengthen the rule of law. One is that it would be costly. The second thing, as I was told now, is that it's about playing against the government. If these are the arguments against the rule of law, I think it actually says more about the Social Democrats than about all of us who want to reject this very ill-prepared and very badly implemented bill, which we will soon be doing. This is a strange proposal, both for reasons of principle and for reasons of legal certainty. It's something completely new compared to what we're used to. We have also pointed out a better solution: to set up a national justice centre, so that we can accommodate the individual's right of access to public defenders, including on awkward working hours, while maintaining the legal certainty we feel is so important. If it is the case that, after two and a half years of ownership, the Social Democrats have suddenly come to an awakening, I welcome it. However, if it is true that we do not disagree with each other, the question arises as to why the reservations expressed in this report are being called for. There must still be something where we disagree. Otherwise, I cannot imagine why the government parties choose to persist in this. I hope we can find a solution soon. I hope that the government will be able to investigate the issue and come to the fore much faster than at the speed it has had so far since October 2016.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-211	Mr President, I would like to A legally secure society is the foundation of a well-functioning democracy. It is extremely important that the citizens of a country have strong confidence in the judiciary and in the rule of law. The Government's proposal for the introduction of the Legal Aid Directive is largely very good, but there are elements that could directly damage confidence in the judiciary and upset confidence in legal certainty. I am, of course, thinking of the controversial proposal that prosecutors should be given the right to appoint public defenders outside the office and emergency times of the courts for a suspect who is arrested or arrested and who has an urgent need for a lawyer. This means a direct departure from the principle of Swedish law that public defenders are appointed by a court. The Government's proposal has received strong criticism from a number of key actors in the judiciary, including the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the Swedish Bar Association, the Swedish Ecocrime Agency and the Chancellor of Justice. The criticism is, first and foremost, that it is wrong, in principle, to allow the suspect's counterpart, the prosecutor, to designate who is to assist the suspect. In line with this principle, the Bar Association points out, among other things, that it is important not only that the prosecutor is de facto impartial but also that the suspect sees the prosecutor as just impartial. As far as the Center Party is concerned, it is directly wrong from the point of view of legal certainty to have the Prosecution Authority appoint representatives. While this issue has been up to date, I have been contacted by lawyers around the country. I have to say that I am directly concerned when lawyers and the Bar Association and others make such strong and sharp criticism of the proposal from the point of view of the rule of law and, despite this criticism, the government does not choose to reconsider and listen to the criticism. For there is another way forward, a path which the government now suddenly seems to share. We fully agree on the need for the possibility of appointing public defenders outside the office and emergency times of the courts in order to strengthen legal certainty. As has been put forward by several referral bodies, an on-call system within the courts is the solution that the Center Party wants to see. This gives us the opportunity to appoint public defenders around the clock, throughout the year, without compromising the rule of law. It is regrettable that the Government is going forward this late with the Legal Aid Directive without having secured a broad majority in the Swedish Parliament despite the fact that it has had several years to implement the directive. The government needs to ensure that a new proposal that strengthens the rule of law instead of eroding it quickly comes to the table of the Riksdag for decision. There are a few things that must never be missed in a well-functioning democracy, and the rule of law is undoubtedly one of them.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-218	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that it is positive that a majority in the Committee on Justice has supported the motion by the Moderates and Christian Democrats who criticise the part of the proposal in the bill that has been the main issue of this debate. The proposal in the Government's proposal is a departure from the principle of Swedish law that public defenders are appointed by a court. It is simply wrong for prosecutors, pending the court's decision and when the court is not available for decision, to appoint a public defender for a suspect who is arrested or arrested and who has an urgent need for a lawyer. The criticism of this proposal by heavy consultation bodies has been strong. We have dealt with this earlier in the debate. I can further reinforce it and take some examples in the critical mass. The D.A. has rejected the motion. In their referral, they state, among other things, that strong interests of legal certainty underpin the current regime and that it should be unthinkable in principle to allow the suspect's counterpart, the prosecutor, to designate who is to assist the suspect. The Swedish Bar Association rejects the proposal with reference to legal certainty and procedural principles. Instead, they advocate a security system within the courts. The Swedish Bar Association points out, among other things, that it is important – as Johan Forssell highlighted earlier in the debate – that the prosecutor is not only impartial but also that he appears to be impartial to the suspect. The Chancellor of Justice has doubts about the proposal and also advocates a system of on-call courts. The ERC has doubts about the solution in view of the fact that the prosecutor is a party to the case. Uppsala University rejects the proposal. Their view is that the task of appointing a public defender should go to court without exception. Lund University believes that the doubt about the prosecutor's right to appoint a public defender outweighs the savings that the implementation of the proposal could entail. The Christian Democrats essentially agree with the criticism of the present proposal put forward by the consultation bodies. We agree with the need for an opportunity to appoint public defenders outside the court's office and stand-by time, but for reasons already stated, reasons of legal certainty and reasons of principle, this should not be a task for the prosecutor. As has been said by several consultation bodies, a system of on-call and preparedness within the courts is the solution that should be chosen instead. The Government, after having stated that it has not supported the proposal in the bill by the Riksdag, has commissioned the National Court of Justice to set up such emergency services. But we believe that this could have been done considerably earlier, Mr President. This Directive was adopted in October 2016. In particular, however, it is remarkable that the National Court of Justice was in progress with the project Effective and consistent weekend preparedness, while the investigation into the implementation of the Legal Aid Directive was ongoing. The purpose of the court's project was to create a uniform, legally secure and effective weekend preparedness throughout the country. The memo notes that an on-call or standby for the courts during evenings and nights could to some extent bear similarities with weekend preparedness. It is strange that the government did not come to the conclusion that a courthouse for appointing public defenders in the evenings and weekends would be included in the project that was already under way. It is particularly remarkable that only after the government has been given back homework by the committee has it now been tasked with investigating a national court stand-by. This must have led to some major trouble with the agency, which just recently carried out just such a project without getting the government's instructions to investigate the possibility of on-call. It is clear that the government's attitude towards the rule of law is shaky. The reasons in principle for not implementing the Government's proposal are strong. Prosecutors shall not appoint defenders. It is therefore positive that the parliamentary majority supports the Christian Democrats and Moderates' motion and rejects the proposal. Let me conclude by saying that it is remarkable when representatives of the government, in this debate Mr Lantz, are almost lecturing the opposition representatives for us to play some kind of game on this issue. In view of the whole list of referrals that have criticised this, that it violates important principles and threatens the rule of law, it is remarkable that the government representatives accuse the opposition and the majority of the Swedish Parliament of playing a game. I want to put that on the record.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-230	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing the AU6 Labour Market and unemployment insurance. Of course, we in the Moderates support our reservations. But for time winning, I only ask for reservations 6 and 18. We believe that the situation on the Swedish labour market today is worrying and that reforms are needed to achieve a proper matching function that can effectively bring together job seekers and employers. Being able to match at this digital age costs as much as it does through Arbetsförmedlingen is not justifiable. The fact that so much money is spent today to finance functions at Arbetsförmedlingen that are better suited to an automated form on the internet is indefensible. This money could have been used to finance welfare, tax cuts and better education opportunities for the unemployed. A focus on a reformed labour market policy is also reflected in the Joint Draft Budget for 2019 for Category 14 submitted by the Moderates and Christian Democrats in the autumn. I note that the Liberals and the Centres have left the walkover in labour market policy with pious hopes of the January sketches' promises. The proposal we had put forward was supported by the Parliament. This was largely based on the fact that we believe that the Public Employment Service should be closed down in favour of a structure in which other players in the labour market play a much greater role. We want to see a more pure system in which a government authority is responsible for, among other things, monitoring and assessing the needs of the jobseeker, while opening the matching function to a limited number of independent actors. We want a national digital platform, where you as a citizen get support and help in finding and matching studies and jobs and can get advice and guidance. At present, it is very difficult as a citizen to know what is needed in the labour market and what opportunities you have to learn what is needed, but also where to go to do so. For example, for a newcomer in Sweden who is going to train as a nurse, it is about contacts with three four five authorities and three different educational institutions. At the same time, we must also know for ourselves that there is a demand in the labour market. In addition, you must apply for and be a driving force in order to be able to take part in the education. It is of course a rather unreasonable task for people who hardly understand how the Swedish system works. I note in this report that there is broad agreement in Parliament on the need for productivity-enhancing opportunities such as further training, but that due to party-political schisms we are not able to sign up. It's very boring. I think we are all well aware that Swedish welfare is built around the fact that we have high productivity and that well-trained, productive and skilled labour is what sustains our economy. It is also clear that it is new arrivals of asylum migrants and their relatives who will be the major burden on labour market systems in the future, but not only those but also those who have come long ago and fallen behind. Recently, a report was released which showed the division into the labour market. The division seems to be ethnic, but when you scratch a little on the surface, it is obvious that it is competent. People from countries with high HDI are well established in the Swedish labour market. Individuals with high human competence are established very well in the Swedish labour market. In fact, it is not even possible to measure differences between native and foreign born if they perform equally well in knowledge tests. This is basically very good news for the Swedish labour market. That means we're meritocratic. We judge individuals, and discrimination is not of such magnitude as to affect people's employment. That's great news. But there is also a very sad news in this context, namely that a very large proportion of new arrivals have such low skills that they are not compatible in the Swedish labour market. Something must be done about this. This group of people who have come has a great need for education; we do not get away from that. This – to teach people how to count, write and read – is a competence that does not lie primarily with Arbetsförmedlingen. It is not something that can be solved through temporary labour market training; it is something that lies primarily with the municipalities. In fact, we have a history of Swedish adult education. At one time in Sweden we had large groups of people from the countryside who moved into the cities. They had low levels of education and difficulty finding livelihoods. This is how the education programmes of municipalities and adult education grew. It is important that we have a reduced migration of asylum seekers and their relatives to Sweden, as already overloaded systems must have a chance to have a noticeable effect. Where are we going to get all professional teachers from, and how are education and training systems to expand so rapidly if it is constantly being filled up with new groups that are increasingly difficult to establish themselves in the labour market? I note that there are also ideas about reducing wages. But how much can wages be reduced? There is a limit below which people live in working poverty, and the social problems of this lead to tensions in society that do not make sense. Here, too, there is a limit, and then it is not possible to pretend that there is no limit to migration. Half of all foreign-borns perform in Swedish, mathematics and digital problem solving in parity with the 10 percent worst performing natives, and 50 percent of immigrants compete with the lowest 10 percent natives. Furthermore, 25 percent of foreign-borns perform at levels that cannot even be measured among natives, that is, below the lowest percentile. How do you get this 25% to work? Competence is not an objective term. The word comes from English; it is therefore a matter of competing with others. How are you going to compete with others when 25% performs at a level below the lowest percentage of natives? There are no low-wage jobs in the world that can solve this. We believe that the government should take the initiative for municipalities to take over the main responsibility for people who have been unemployed for more than three years. They probably have very large educational needs, and that is where the education capacity is located in the municipalities. In the case of subsidised employment, it may be a reasonable tool in some cases. However, it is important that they have a low degree of displacement, that they are not bureaucratically cumbersome and that they play their part in helping individuals enter the labour market, rather than subsidising dysfunctional business models. Therefore, as a general rule, there should be a limit on the proportion of employees of the same employer who may have subsidised employment. Furthermore, new jobs should not qualify for unemployment insurance. In this way, it is possible to avoid the use of new start-up jobs as a costly way of getting people to meet working conditions in unemployment insurance so as to create what is called a-cassette rounds. I note that the Swedish Democrats want compulsory, tax-funded and general unemployment insurance – an idea that previously circulated within the Reinfeldt Government but never came about. Although the Moderates do not propose such a thing, I do find the discussion interesting. The cost difference compared to today's publicly funded but semi-privatised unemployment funds is almost non-existent. However, there is a great danger: that the unemployment fund ends up being treated as an insurance policy and is rather seen as a grant payment. In this way it would lose the important function it has. But at least this is a debate worth having. Madam President, I would like We have presented the main lines of Moderate labour market policy, but I would like to leave a piece of paper. We do not believe that it is primarily through labour market policies that a better functioning labour market is created. It is a stable economy, sound management of public finances, responsible demographic development, increased growth, increased entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship that are the basis for a functioning labour market. That is where value is created, which not only supports our country but also our welfare and our families.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-253	Madam President, I would like I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Swedish Democrats, but for the time being, I am only in favour of reservations 19 and 14. As a social conservative, I think it is important to retain the foundations that work well, while developing and reforming what can be better – all in order for the people we represent to receive dividends from what we jointly contribute in the form of tax funds and social engagement in the short but also in the long term. Unemployment insurance is a strong foundation for the security of the individual. I know that, not least from my own experience. During the 2008 recession, I myself ended up in the situation of becoming unemployed. I had to go through the whole process at Arbetsförmedlingen but found a new job on my own quite quickly. For me, the safety net through unemployment insurance was a huge security that gave me a chance to focus on my job search without the risk of totally putting my family in financial bankruptcy. It is a security that all citizens of Sweden deserve. Today, the Swedish unemployment fund is 90% financed by tax revenue, while 10% is financed by membership fees. Why, then, should not all those who work and contribute to our well-being benefit from the security provided by insurance? Well, the answer is that the unemployment fund and trade unions have historically had too tight links with each other. It is not constructive for our labour law. The unemployment insurance is now, by definition, to be separate from the trade unions. At the same time, however, we receive reports that the difference is not always as clear as it should be. We find this worrying and, in substance, wrong. We believe that it is fairer and better distributed if, through government funding, we allow everyone who works to take part in it. Everything indicates that we are facing a new recession in the near future, and then society needs to show that we are capable of creating security and stability in the labour market. Would it not be safer for those who risk losing their job to know that they can look for work locally without having to risk the security of their family? For those who are involved in associations and drive their children back and forth to various activities, it would be devastating to have to commute or move to another place. This is an example of why we think it is important to make it clearer that the unemployed person is given a chance to look for a new job locally during the first 100 days. Being unemployed has major consequences for the individual, and so we want to work to increase the compensation ceiling during the first 100 days from today's SEK 910 per day to SEK 1,200 per day. Madam President, I would like When it comes to the situation of disabled people and Samhall as a state-owned company, we think Samhall's basic mission is extremely important. For a person with reduced work capacity who cannot work full time, regular work is not always the best solution. That labour market policies should include people with disabilities and create the conditions for everyone to get a job according to their abilities is entirely reasonable. That is where we share the committee's position. However, we would like to see more action from the government parties on this issue, and we do not think that the policy in this area is sufficient to achieve the objective. It is therefore reasonable to review further proposals and efforts to create the best possible conditions. One example of our proposals is to review the possibility of introducing some kind of flex jobs like the system that exists in Denmark, for example. Denmark has good experience of this type of employment status for persons with substantial and permanently reduced working capacity. The proposal means that the person works with 100% of his or her work capacity and receives 100% of his or her salary. The employer pays only for the actual time the person is working, while the State provides the remaining part of the benefit. The result is a salary that you can live on according to our Swedish model. Samhall as a company was founded in 1980 and is today one of the largest companies in Sweden, at least in terms of the number of employees in Sweden. One of Samhall's goals is for 1,100 employees to move on to employment with another employer each year. Historically, there has been a great success here. When Samhall was founded, the mission was to create employment for people with disabilities, and the assignments consisted almost exclusively of their own product industry. As the Swedish labour market has changed, Samhall's activities have also changed. Today, a large part of the assignments consist of service professions and contracts within other companies. However, Samhall's basic mission is the same as it has always been: to give people with mental or physical disabilities the opportunity to get meaningful jobs. Samhall's main task is to create developing jobs for people with a documented disability. However, there are signs and criticisms that Arbetsförmedlingen uses Samhall to hide new arrivals in unemployment statistics, which is problematic. Of those working in Samhall, 42% are today people born in another country, which is completely unrealistic. The fact that 50% of those working in Samhall should be people born in another country actually falls on their own absurdity. Arbetsförmedlingen uses the disability codes in a highly questionable way, as deficiencies in the Swedish language should not be classified as a physical or mental disability. The risk is that you create a displacement effect for those who really need Samhall. We believe that it is up to each individual to create the conditions for being available on the Swedish labour market. This can be done through SFI and all other educations that society generously assists with. Then each person must apply for work with or without Arbetsförmedlingen and on the same terms as everyone else on the labour market. Samhall is not there for the government to hide a failed immigration and labour market policy. We therefore believe that, as stated above, the government should review the possibility of introducing some form of flexibilities and should take measures to safeguard Samhall's core mission.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-273	Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party are, of course, behind all our reservations, but here I would just like to ask for the approval of reservation 10, which I will say something about. I will also give a background to the positions expressed in our specific opinions and describe a little why we have chosen this path in this area. Sometimes in politics it is difficult to remember what lies behind all the multi-stutter words that I and others use here in the speaker's chair, but that is not the case in this area. We still have, at the peak of the boom, hundreds of thousands of people outside the Swedish labour market. Three quarters of them, a quarter of a million people, are also, according to statistics, what are called vulnerable. These are people who do not have a high school degree, older people who have lost their job and foreign-born people who have language difficulties. A majority of the unemployed today have never had a real job. There are an incredible number of lives that are affected by what we do here in the Swedish Parliament. Many children are not allowed to see their parents go to work. There are a lot of people who struggle very hard but don't get a chance to get in. It is we who have created these problems: the high taxes on employees, which, together with wage agreements on the labour market, prevent small businesses from hiring an extra person. The rules designed to protect people put all the emphasis on a rotational queue rather than on employability, which can provide real security. Once there is a restructuring and you leave the company after a negotiation with the union, you are also the last in line. When we then spend billions on helping the unemployed, many of whom have already been involved, it is a bureaucracy that usually only allows them to move from action to action. Now we are also on top of the boom. The recession is coming down. But, as some do, one must not suffer from deep pessimism because of this. It must lead to action and to reforms that break down the walls that shut you people out of jobs and reforms that create flexibility. We have been pursuing these reforms for many years, but we have not received much support for them, even within the Alliance, if we are to be honest. Nor have we been supported by the Social Democrats. But the new political situation in Sweden forced the Center Party to act as an independent liberal force in Swedish politics, whose goal is not only to stop the political extremes but also to address the deep problems that fatten populism and extremism and in themselves are very serious. The political situation has given us a major decision as to who will rule in Sweden and how. We chose not to use it for government officials or posts, but to push through the major important reforms and policies that will give us the chance to tear down the walls of hundreds of thousands of people and break the duality that exists in the labour market. We have done this, among other things, in five major areas in the January agreement. The employer's contribution will not be discussed very much here. However, this is an issue that is important for reducing the tax wedges on labour, including the removal of employers' contributions for those who have never had a job and for small businesses who start hiring. We have broadened the jobs where pay should initially be lower in order for people to be able to enter the labour market. One must not be as pessimistic as some speakers have been, because Germany, the Netherlands and many other countries have managed to find entry jobs with a little lower pay, so that people enter the labour market. This is what we have tried to broaden to those who create the most jobs in modern Sweden: small companies without collective agreements and temporary agencies. We want to make clear changes to labour law so that flexibility, security and enhanced skills replace the rotational queues as the only thing that provides security in the labour market, more dares to change jobs and more gaps are opened up to those outside. We want to redeploy the Public Employment Service, whose bureaucracy continues to break even to the last. Instead, we want to use the tens of billions that we spend on helping the unemployed so effectively that the efforts really lead to jobs. It should then be independent intermediaries who get paid according to results in the form that they permanently manage to get people into work and nothing else. In all these areas, delivery applies. It's gonna be tough. It'll be complicated. But we will follow every step on the road that the government takes to the fulfilment of the January agreement. As we mention in many of our specific opinions, this is what the Alliance has agreed on. These are things that the Alliance has run in common. Therefore, we can only agree with some of the intentions of the movements of the other bourgeois parties. But we should also be clear that parts of these are reforms that no political parties other than the Center Party and the Liberals have pursued. No other party has exercised it. It is about structural reforms that we all recognized were necessary but which no one dared to bear. Everyone shot them in front of them because they challenged strong special interests. These are reforms to open up the labour market and to keep the focus on those outside that we can now finally implement, in the time of the Count, before the recession comes. Then that is not enough. The Center Party will continue to pursue labour market reforms in many other ways. We will continue to be a driving force in opposition to increase entrepreneurship, freedom, transparency and easier ways to work in many of the areas where we did not reach all the way through in the January agreement. But we reached much farther than many others. One example is a reservation we have. It is about the efforts of people with disabilities and their chances in the labour market. It has also been mentioned before. This is an issue that is outside the January agreement. There is too much bureaucracy and red tape, as in the rest of the labour market, which is blocking job opportunities. Today it is too difficult to hire people with disabilities. Many companies are therefore reluctant to do so. In fact, the simplifications that have been made have not been enough. Small entrepreneurs must be able to invest in these jobs. They must be able to feel that it is as obvious as everything else. Support needs to be reduced. They need to be simpler. They need to be more flexible. It is another example of how we will go further. But in general, there is no longer any turning back. We need to do this together in order to break the division into the labour market. We in the Center Party will do our part. We hope that everyone else will do theirs.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-289	Madam President, I would like I think Martin Ådahl hinted that I was pessimistic. I can say that Swedish views on these issues have perhaps been somewhat optimistic. This applies to the government and also to the Alliance and the former Center Party. The system only needs a little steering, so we can soon get the EU's lowest unemployment or whatever it may be. Martin Ådahl's speech now breathes the same optimism. That's very sweet. But the big problem is that the policy of the Center Party does not go together. There is no other example ever, registered by the OECD, of a country that has had as much migration as Sweden – in the Western world, in an industrialized economy. It's never happened. It's never been measured. In fact, it is not possible to talk about minijobs in Germany and other such things. In addition, Sweden is the country throughout the Western world that has the greatest differences in competence between native and foreign born. There is no other country in the industrialized world that has greater differences than Sweden. Martin Ådahl wants to open up for even more immigration, more protection reasons, and at the same time try to access the ethnification and segregation we see in the labour market. It's not realistic. I simply wonder: what are you thinking here? All your reforms can have an impact on the margin, but not if you restock with new customers all the time.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-292	Madam President, I would like Firstly, I note that this is a sad pattern. A representative of the Moderates, in this case, requests a reply from the Center Party to make criticisms, but does not ask for a reply from the Swedish Democrats. Unfortunately, today is the day. Madam President, I would like Secondly, I do not think that Mr Bali, with the best will in the world, could have listened carefully if he thinks what I said was: 'R to do a little bit in the system'. The whole point was that major reforms need to be made. This is not a question of naive optimism. Nor can you hear that, with the best will in the world, if you do not listen very selectively. The bottom line is that it is possible to succeed with this type of integration, however one describes the proportion of people who come to Sweden. I believe, moreover, that it is much better for people's opportunities in the labour market to unite young children and parents than for them to be separated by unreasonable laws. However, however it is described, it is quite clear that countries such as Germany, the Netherlands and Denmark have succeeded enormously better in getting the new arrivals who have low qualifications into employment – it is well above the Swedish levels – with the help of the reforms that we are proposing. Ultimately, the Moderates must decide whether they believe in the liberalisation of the labour market and the ability of small businesses to employ, entrepreneurship and real reforms. Is this what has stood in the way for several decades and led to people having been outside the labour market, long before we had different waves of migration, or is it at the bottom just that there is too much immigration to Sweden? We have always, like you before, felt that it was the former that was the problem. We have not suddenly adopted another rhetoric.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-297	Madam President, I would like Liberalisation of the labour market is, of course, very welcome. The Moderates have wanted it for a very long time, and that's why it gets so weird. We have always wanted to see liberalisation of the Employment Protection Act and make a lot of the reforms that Martin Ådahl is bringing up. But when a new societal challenge emerges, it becomes strange if the Moderates' answer to it should be exactly what we have thought all along. If you only have a hammer, everything is nail. However, it is a new social phenomenon that there will be groups and that we see differences that we have not previously had in this country, which historically had a very homogeneous educational structure. That is why it is not possible to see everything as a nail to be solved with a little liberalisation in LAS, a little privatisation of the Public Employment Service and a little reform at the edge. No matter how large a lever is taken, it is not realistic to address the problems that are the causes of segregation in the labour market while opening up to new customers who need help all the time. That is the simple conclusion. It took me a long time to get that. I stood there and agreed to the point about what Martin says. It took a long time of adulthood and maturity to land in that opinion. It's a journey we've all probably made. The question is when the Center Party and Martin Ådahl will start this journey.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-300	Madam President, I would like I understand that this is part of the debate in Parliament, but I am still not quite prepared to take any lessons in adulthood and maturity from my fellow Member from the Moderates. Maybe it'll come with my maturity. These are great and important reforms that we have pursued together, but not just together, the gods know. There has been opposition from our bourgeois colleagues in the Alliance to these major and important structural reforms, and it has blocked changes in the labour market year after year. Therefore, I am very surprised that it is now suddenly claimed that it thought otherwise. I am very surprised to hear literally the words used by the Social Democrats, the Left Party and others about our belief that a well-functioning market economy also in the labour market area and with the support of extensive economic science and the experience of many small businessmen and ordinary people is the solution in many countries and also in Sweden to bring everyone into the labour market. All of this is suddenly called because we only have one hammer and therefore believe that everything is a nail. That is literally what we have historically heard from the worst left-wing populists. It's not a hammer and a nail! This is the basis for the functioning of the labour market. I hope and believe that the Moderates will not let go of this line of policy but will stick to reforming. And to put it this way, people who come to this country and want to enter our labour market are not customers, I would like to point out. They are just what they are – people who have been excluded and need to get in.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-304	Madam President, I would like Exciting to be able to make your speech after two different little baby-a-right fantasies about how society is connected have come together in a replica shift! I'll try to get back to reality. We are now discussing the AU6 Labour Market report and unemployment insurance, a number of motions from the general period of exercise that we have to consider. It is not an appropriation in any budget, nor is it a proposal that has been put on the table by the government. However, it is true that many of the issues raised in the report are in the midst of revolutionary political processes. For example, we are conducting this debate at the same time as the whole of Swedish labour market policy as we know it and the authority that the parliament and government are set to carry out important parts of it, i.e. the Employment Service, is about to be brought into a great deal of chaos. The responsibility for this forced walk into chaos falls heavily on both the newly formed blue-brown bloc in Swedish politics – the Moderates, SD and KD – who pushed through a napkin sketch budget as if there were no tomorrow and on the government and its neo-liberally colored cooperation parties C and L. The parties that agreed on the 73 points of the January Agreement have not given any information as to whether and how the effects of the blue-brown budget are to be mitigated and managed responsibly in relation to the Employment Service and labour market policy. On the contrary, the ideologically one-track desktop construction that the Centers and Liberals have waved earlier in time and without time has now been codified as the very basis of this cooperation. It is boring, and it is quite unworthy one in many modern and well-functioning countries like Sweden. Madam President, I would like In recent months, I and others in the Left Party have both been contacted by and made sure to meet some of the people who work with Swedish labour market policy on a daily basis in different ways. Not least, there has been a huge frustration among the trade unions at Arbetsförmedlingen over being the subject of statements without foundation in fact and becoming scapegoats in processes where they reach goals that have been set for them and then realize that it is quite different goals and other purposes that they are criticized for in public. There has also consistently been a genuine desire to understand how the most vocal critics – preferably the Center Party and its main representatives on these issues, Martin Ådahl – relate to the large redundancies and office closures that result from politics, while at the same time the Public Employment Service will undergo a large but undefined process of change. Then judge if my surprise, and I guess the surprise may be even greater with the employees at Arbetsförmedlingen, when it turned out the other day that one who claims to be shocked and appalled by the effects of the politics that the Center Party and Martin Ådahl have pushed through is Martin Ådahl from the Center Party. In today's industry, we were able to read on Monday that this does not rhyme with the policy of the Center Party, nor does it rhyme with the January Agreement. It therefore appears that the Center Party, or at least one leading centre party, had envisaged the privatisation of the Employment Service in its present form, while the number of employees and offices would remain intact. I must admit that I cannot judge on my own whether this is a question of naivety, a result of a kind of magic thinking or just a simple attempt at political spin. What I must stress, however, is that this is not the way to allow responsible parties to escape responsibility. There are quite a few of us who have tried time and again during the last parliamentary term, in the election movement, during the formation of the government and after the beginning of the January agreement to seriously discuss the effects that right-wing politics would have on labour market policy and on the Public Employment Service. It has been met with the healthiest pr-oneliners and rose-cured neo-liberal flosskels. But now that it is starting to burn, those responsible, who are also in here, do not want to feel responsible. It's pretty pitiful. Madam President, I would like It is also not only in the general debate that this approach has begun to crystallise. This is also something that can be seen in the texts of this report. As regards the Swedish Public Employment Service, for example, we can read this: a thorough review of the recently completed Labour Market Survey has been carried out on the question of how the Swedish Labour Service's tasks should be shaped in the future of the Swedish labour market and how the matching should be carried out in general. ..................................................... This is right and proper. A huge study has been working for several years and presented its final report just in January this year. As the committee has recently pointed out, it believes that the study's proposals can be an important basis for further discussion on the reform of the Employment Service's mandate. ..................................................... This also makes sense. The problem is that this is not how the January agreement has been formulated and presented. There the political intentions have already drummed what the investigation has been working on. I would, of course, be delighted if we could hear today, for example, the four parties that have signed the 73-point programme say that they have thought about it and want to think about another lap. I will not hold my breath while waiting for this to happen, but it would of course be good for Swedish labour market policy and for Sweden if that happens. Madam President, I would like I believe that a serious political debate on the desire to disassemble and create chaos in labour market policy can only be conducted if we also see that this is about more than different ideas about governance and organisation. There are also strong systemic forces in motion. It is economic interests and driving forces that have to do with the transformation of contemporary capitalism and how it takes the form of a well-developed welfare country like Sweden. We see this development in several areas, for example, when the capital owners and their political branches in the political assemblies are fighting hard to keep the straws down in the public purses for health care, care, school and assistance. We see it when management consultants go away with billions of profits from the construction of the New Karolinska Hospital while there is no money to fix the staff's working conditions. What we are dealing with is a recent phase of raffery, where political energy is invested in usurping financial resources that the public collects. We can still hear in the debate the ideological amsagas of the entrepreneur who defies all the mediocre ways of the world and builds an activity that produces growth and prosperity, where the workers are faceless extras. But those who are attentive can see and hear that innovation in right rhetoric has increasingly come to stand for smart grips to rig for convenient transfer of funds through public to commercial actors. It is in this context that the desire to privatise labour market policy must be seen and therefore also the importance of not allowing it to happen without political struggle. Madam President, I would like For the Left Party it is important that Sweden has a well thought-out and well-functioning labour market policy. This means that we have also been very critical of many aspects of politics and of parts of Arbetsförmedlingen's activities. But we want Arbetsförmedlingen to move in a completely different direction than the one announced by the government together with C and L. Employment services should be a cornerstone of a social and active labour market policy, not an authority that is dedicated to control and punishment – possibly also procurement. The staff at Arbetsförmedlingen should be given the opportunity to spend most of their time in contacting local employers and job seekers so that they can find the openings and opportunities available. At the same time, the Public Employment Service needs to organise more of some training and preparation activities and to be able to assign more than is currently the case for regular training. On the whole, a rapture of labour market policy would have to be based on the actual situation of the multifaceted group of unemployed people that exists today and on a social idea of what kind of labour market and of the kind of society we want in Sweden. There is a great need for basic education for a large number of those who are currently unemployed. You need to invest in working forms for them. It is better with a little more expensive labour market training than the mass measures aimed primarily at controlling the unemployed rather than improving their opportunities in the labour market, and therefore the activities should be reorganised in a well-thought-out and structured way. What do we see instead? Well, a control and wage sink philosophy that will have to emerge again with the government's cooperation to the right. If C and L are allowed to decide more, there will be more of this waiting. For example, in the joint reservation of the Centre Party and the Liberals under paragraph 4, which Martin Ådahl has just called for in today's report, we believe that it is desirable for employers to give their employees good conditions of employment. However, this must not lead to certain employers being sifted out. ..................................................... There are two parties that are making war to turn more forms of subsidised employment into water holes for less serious and wage-dumping employers. It is a question of two parties which form the basis of the Social Democratic-led government. Madam President, I would like In direct contrast, the Left Party has put forward a series of proposals to strengthen control and trade union influence in subsidised employment so that they are used effectively and not in a way that crowds out work on collective bargaining conditions. There are now certain sectors, such as taxis, buses, warehouses and the retail trade, where there is a systematic use of subsidised employment in some places, in that the employer basically requires that those who want a service bring some kind of subsidy, although there is a need to fill the service. This is not how the Swedish labour market should work. The Left Party proposes, among other things, that a limit be imposed on the number or proportion of employees with subsidised pay that a single employer receives. We want to make it clear that Arbetsförmedlingen should both hear and always carefully consider the opinions of trade unions when deciding on workplace instructions. We want to strengthen sanctions against employers who do not meet agreed criteria or who abuse employment subsidies in order to reduce their personnel costs and gain competitive advantages. These are concrete measures that should be considered. But it is clear that all these measures will be more difficult to implement once the Public Employment Service itself has set itself free. Unless the government is able to roll back the national administrative policy disaster that is in the pipeline for Arbetsförmedlingen, we will also see negative side effects of this kind, i.e. more of cheating and fraud and more of eroded trust in the entire Swedish model. Madam President, I would like There is much more to be said, but I have already oversold my speaking time. I will conclude by saying, of course, that I support all the reservations of the Left Party, but for time to come, I am only calling for reservation 8.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-336	Madam President, I would like I felt that Ali Esbati made such a strong effort to get me to ask for a reply that I cannot really deny him a change of line in the debate. He apostrophized me many times. However, it is difficult to answer, as the honourable Member said, such a strange picture of reality. If one has a Marxist grant and sees all forms of independent actors as a rafferry, it is difficult to see what is the real situation, namely that the Employment Service does not work for the unemployed. It is only a small fraction that gets a job using all the resources that we spend on Arbetsförmedlingen. Some countries spend no money at all to help the unemployed, but all the countries that spend money on the unemployed have a system of independent performance-based actors. Right now we are putting into effect a reform with both private and idea-driven actors. In Australia there are many idea-based actors, but they may also be part of the raffle. We are going to subject this bureaucracy to these changes, but we have not started yet. At the same time, the management of Arbetsförmedlingen is closing down a large number of offices, although it was not at all part of the planning. It happens prematurely and unthinkingly. It's obvious that we're reacting. You have to find the contradictions yourself. We will have a decentralised, present employment service everywhere in the country. Above all, if we succeed in the reform, we will have one that works and delivers jobs. That is not the case today.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-340	Madam President, I would like That I mentioned Martin Ådahl by name was because I wanted to quote what he said in today's industry. I myself would prefer to be quoted with names instead of, for example, the 42-year-old, or something like that. I'm sure it would have been worse. You don't have to be a Marxist to try to put what's happening in a general privatisation strategy that's going on across large parts of the Western world, even if it might help. I simply note that in many areas there is a desire from employers' organisations and capital-owners' organisations that public funds that are nevertheless collected because society believes that a task needs to be done, such as employment services or assistance to job seekers, rather than going through organisations that have a public interest in mind should be pumped into private companies. It is not by chance that this is something that Almega, for example, has been pushing for a long time. The Center Party has acted as Almega's political representative in the Swedish parliament. I am trying to put this into a slightly broader perspective. What we can come back to is the strange shock that Martin Ådahl seems to have suffered by seeing the results of his policy begin to unfold. How did the Center Party and the representative Ådahl intend to do the privatisation without affecting the employees of Arbetsförmedlingen and Arbetsförmedlingen's offices? What was the intended development? That would be interesting to hear.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-343	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry, Ali Esbati, if you felt it wasn't a personal enough grant. It wasn't my intention at all. However, it is an important and good question that you ask, namely how the reduction should be done if there should be a local presence in the whole country at the same time. The point is not to have presence for the sake of presence if it does not work, but the point is that you should have presence that delivers some kind of help to jobs that are really effective. The reduction in offices that has now taken place and the fact that there is no guarantee of presence throughout the country – we have indeed demanded presence throughout the country in response to this – is not at all part of this change. It is a very small part of the total budget of the Public Employment Service that is affected by this. On the contrary, many more independent actors will have a greater local presence in many ways. There is no logical link at all between having a pure authority that is present and does its official role and doing what they are independent in doing it well in the rest of the world according to the principle of having contact with employers, communicating jobs and creating effective support for job seekers – that is, what is currently not working at all. These two things, even if you have a fundamentally left-wing attitude, cannot be set against each other. It must be able to be both dynamic and effective and be able to exist a presence as an authority close to people. You shouldn't have to choose one or the other. It is therefore a very relevant question, Ali Esbati, but you also get a very clear and simple answer.
i-WvCjjkGHou3D6zumXBcEn2	Madam President, I would like I note that the impact of the M, KD and SD budgets was known. The Director-General of the Employment Service visited the committee and explained what was to happen. Had the new government plus C and L wanted to change this, it could have been announced that, for example, more money would be added to the spring budget or at least announced in other ways that you want something else with the Employment Service. On the contrary, it has been said that outside the rapid cut that comes as a direct result of the budget, it wants to make major but not yet clear changes that will make the Public Employment Service the authority that the Center Party has fantasized together. It is clear that it will be very difficult to implement this right from the start, but it will be particularly difficult if it happens at the same time as the Public Employment Service is a collapsing authority because one third of the administrative appropriation is removed. This isn't rock and roll science. If you do not understand that this is the way it is, you have a little uphill if you are to handle Arbetsförmedlingen in a responsible way. There could have been a fairly simple solution, such as talking to the people who are going to do this job and trying to think about what they say about their everyday lives. The Center Party has either not done so at all or, as we have seen on some notes, taken note of but did not understand. Both are problematic.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-350	Madam President, I would like In each person there is a need to feel fellowship with others, take responsibility and develop as a person. That is why labour market policy is about more than socio-economic efficiency and public finances. It is also about ensuring that everyone has a chance to develop their abilities. The Christian Democrats want to see a society that takes advantage of people's opportunities and innate abilities. Man's value is not in how much he works or how productive he is, but the importance of labor for the individual's development is great. Jobs are created when individuals find it worthwhile to start or develop a business, realize an idea and risk their savings. Four out of five new jobs are created in SMEs. It is therefore important that initiatives, creativity and entrepreneurship are encouraged in our society, including through a good education system and a good entrepreneurial climate. Creating the best possible soil for increased employment is one of the most important tasks of the policy. Madam President, I would like The Swedish economy is still in a boom with stable growth figures. The good times, however, cannot obscure the alienation represented by the Swedish labour market. As the committee states in this report, several groups systematically find it difficult to get a foothold on the labour market while there is a shortage of labour in an increasing number of sectors. The employment gap between native and foreign born is marked and continues to grow. More than 100 000 new jobs are needed for foreign born children in order for employment to be as high for foreign born as for domestic ones. Another group in difficulty in the labour market is young people with a lack of education. If people's opportunities and abilities are to be better exploited, more people must be given the chance to get a real job instead of living on benefits and tax-funded labour market measures indefinitely. Only then can we increase the space to invest more in school, police and medical care. In the period 2018–2020, the Employment Service estimates that the proportion of unemployed people with a vulnerable position on the labour market will be around 75 per cent of all registered unemployed. For these people, the thresholds into the Swedish labour market are far too high, as the Council of Finance Ministers, the IMF and the OECD have long pointed out. The costs and risks of hiring a person with a lack of experience or short training make it difficult for many to enter the labour market. It requires new ways to work, lower thresholds into the labour market and increased incentives for companies to hire. The fact that the labour market does not work for the most vulnerable groups is actually one of Sweden's biggest social problems. This leads to high costs for the individual and for society. The additional services, which have become the government's response to the exclusion of the labour market, are an expensive reform which has shown too poor results. The share of unsupported work has been 6 per cent. Instead, in order to improve integration and young people's opportunities and to ensure that more people can move from grants to work, we propose a simplified form of employment, entry jobs, for newcomers and young people up to 23 without a secondary school degree. It's about learning the job at work. The salary amounts to 70% of the current collective wage in the industry, and 30% of the working time is meant to go to actually learning the job. It is not possible to just dismiss proposals like this. We simply cannot continue in exactly the same track. Madam President, I would like Basically, people have their own responsibility to be employable and to look for work. But employers have an important job in supporting, matching and coordinating job seekers with employers. There are major matching problems in the labour market, but the number of jobs mediated through the Employment Service is still far too low. According to SCB's 2017 Labour Force Survey, approximately 15 per cent of all jobs were transferred through the Employment Service. Today, however, matching is largely carried out in other ways and not infrequently through independent actors. Temporary agency work plays a growing role, also as an intermediary of labour. The current structures of employment services are not adapted to today's labour market or the problems we face. A better functioning employment service is important for improving employment and matching those far removed from the labour market with jobs. We therefore believe that the Public Employment Service in its current form should be closed down and replaced by a smaller authority with a more pure role and that the matching function should be opened to independent actors. However, a new system must mean that independent operators are measured and ranked according to results and that rogue operators are kept away. Madam President, I would like Today, there are over 350 work integration social enterprises in Sweden that provide approximately 9 000 people with work, work training and rehabilitation. Christian Democrats would like to see more such companies emerge as they lower the thresholds into the labour market for certain groups of job seekers who may not have had a job for a long time. We believe, for example, that the mentoring support of job integration social enterprises needs to be developed and that the decision-making on the instructions of job seekers to these companies should be facilitated. Today, too few employers take the step and employ people with disabilities. Unfortunately, this also applies to workplaces in the public sector – more needs to be done here. Current efforts, including wage subsidies, instead contribute to a lock-in effect, as it is not possible today to have more than one employer or to own and run one's own business. We Christian Democrats believe that the modernisation of the regulatory framework is necessary if people with disabilities are also to have a place in the labour market. That is why, Madam President, I would like to support the Christian Democrats' reservation 16 in paragraph 6 on the labour market for people with disabilities.
i-Af47ZriKPEFcmxb4zCkGYd	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservations 16 and 19 in the AU6 report to be approved. Autumn's process of formation of government has contributed to the Liberals and the Center Party having settled with the government on a number of substantive policy issues in the January agreement. A number of the very important issues identified in the 73-point programme focus on how labour market policy is to be developed in the future. It is about the reform of the Employment Service, about changes in labour law to create a more dynamic and flexible labour market and about opening up the labour market to more easy ways in so that more jobs without entry requirements can be created and so that individuals who are currently outside can get their first job and stand for their own livelihood. It is also about creating a world-class business environment. We are aware of the importance of growing companies for the creation of new life chances and for individuals who are currently excluded to be able to get their first job and their own salary. With more people coming to work, the income of our common welfare fund also increases. For all of this to be achieved, untimely laws must be phased out. The regulatory framework must be simplified and it must be much simpler and cheaper for entrepreneurs to hire. Madam President, I would like Since most of the issues I have just mentioned are part of the agreement and are under consideration, I would like to refer to our specific opinions in the report. However, there are also policy areas that are not part of the agreement, and these are the ones on which I would like to focus particular attention. The debate on the labour market often talks about safe and precarious employment and about the right to full-time employment, to a safe transition and to a safe workplace. All too often, however, this reasoning leads to counterproductive policy proposals, in which workers and job seekers are disadvantaged. All too often, this leads to restrictions on people's opportunities. I shall also allow myself in this speech to become a little personal, as I have previously been in chamber debates. My family came to Sweden in the early 80's. In our old homeland, my mother did not work; she was considered to have the role of being at home and representing the children's upbringing. But in Sweden she made up with this view. She was one of the few Kurdish women who early entered the Swedish labour market and started working and earning their own money. Through hard work and hard work, she entered Swedish society, and she has become a very important role model for me in my political commitment. This weekend I went by the hamburger restaurant where she got her first job. It gave her a chance to get a foot in the Swedish labour market. Thanks to the job at the restaurant – let's call it McDonalds – she later moved on to another job. The job at the hamburger restaurant was a fixed-term job – a type of employment that some parties in this hall want to remove. If it had been a reality in the '80s, my mother's journey would probably have been different. Too often the discussion of secure employment leads to political bear services. At the restaurant where my mother got her first job today, several young people are turning over new hamburgers. Few of them will do the same work as they do today in five years' time, but for them the hamburger restaurant is a bridge to the next workplace. Madam President, I would like Today, a majority of the Swedish unemployed are not covered by unemployment insurance. Among Sweden's young people, only 10 per cent of those who are unemployed receive unemployment benefit. It weakens the security of the transition, and this results in many not daring to trade one job for another. It simply creates lock-in effects and vulnerability. Why is it that we have an unemployment insurance system that a large part of our population does not use? I think it depends on two factors. On the other hand, I think that there are far too many people who do not know what unemployment insurance looks like – or that it even exists – and that they are entitled to it, and I think that the system is far too complicated. People are unable to go through the bureaucracy or put down the commitment needed to be insured. These two factors make the current a-cassage system inaccessible and ineffective, hitting the weakest groups in society. It often hits new arrivals, who do not master the language, and against young people, who do not know the rules. These groups tend to want to engage in insecure employment by some political parties in this House. Then the question is: how are we going to solve this problem? Well, by making unemployment insurance compulsory. I note that the Moderates seem to be changing hands on this issue, with what Mr Bali said in his previous speech, and I welcome this, of course. The more parties we can become, the more we can see the problems of today's a-cassage system and the more parties we can be in this House who realise the importance of introducing an insurance system that is compulsory and that protects everyone in the labour market, the better regulations we get. Madam President, I would like There are currently 26 a-kassas, which are mostly financed by tax funds. Nevertheless, the insurance is not enjoyed by those people who would most need it. This creates gaps, counteracts a safe transition and is a misuse of our common resources. Within the January agreement, the labour market will be liberalised in a very far-reaching way. The labour market will become more mobile and more people will be able to get a first job. However, as job security becomes weaker as a result of changes in dismissal rules, the transition must also follow. The January agreement has many good proposals for skills development and a flexicurity model, but unemployment insurance must not be left out-of-date, unused and wasted. I therefore wish that more political parties in the Riksdag would support the Liberals' proposal to give the unemployment inquiry a supplementary directive on investigating the conditions for a compulsory unemployment fund. Madam President, I would like It is in few areas of expenditure that the ideological differences become as clear as on the issues that we have to deal with in this committee. But the January agreement has helped us now to find a number of important structural changes for the Swedish labour market and for the future labour market. Sweden needs a new labour market policy. There are thousands of individuals out there just waiting to show what they're capable of, so don't let us politicians stand in their way. Let us create the necessary changes that create inclusion and enable people to get jobs and self-sufficiency.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-392	Madam President, I would like You know, it's good to change your lines where you can break your opinions against each other. Sometimes they may also be used to check misunderstandings in facts. Gulan Avci said that there are parties that are against fixed-term contracts. I don't know if she meant the Left Party. If she meant it, of course, it's wrong. There may be some other party that I do not know and that is not in Parliament that thinks so, but the Left Party is not against fixed-term contracts. The Left Party is opposed to the form of general fixed-term employment. On the basis of this, it will be important for me to try to understand whether it is correctly understood that what is important for the Liberals is the form of general fixed-term employment, that is to say that what we want is the very possibility for employers to treat workers arbitrarily, which is what is in the form of general fixed-term employment. Is this the bonus and the feature that you want to access? If so, why? What good will come out of this? Then I have to ask you a question about unemployment insurance. After all, we have, quite recently in the parliamentary social security inquiry, carried out a major investigation into the introduction of what is known as compulsory unemployment insurance. There was a rather broad consensus that it would not be so good. Making it compulsory to be in the unemployment fund does not at all solve the main problem here, namely that many do not qualify to receive any compensation at all from the unemployment insurance fund. Do I really understand that the Liberals want to make it easier to qualify for unemployment benefit? In that case, it is something new but also very pleasing.
i-7UoZUhUyWUkxRyXvDt6bKF	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the line, Ali Esbati! As far as fixed-term contracts are concerned, I welcome the fact that Ali Esbati is now standing here so clearly talking about the importance of fixed-term contracts, because it is an important form of employment that has made it possible for so many people who would otherwise be outside of the labour market to get their feet into the labour market. We have a very large exclusion today where the group of foreign born people, in particular, does not manage to overcome the barriers and thresholds that are built into the Swedish labour market. Over the years, we have heard how not only the Left Party but the Left parties have been in union leadership to a large extent, because we know that with fixed-term employment the union's power position in the Swedish labour market is threatened. But what we are looking for is to create more ways in, and then fixed-term employment is an incredibly important way into the labour market for many people who would otherwise be outside. It is clear that we do not want to create insecurity for workers in the Swedish labour market. Therefore, these clear bridges should be available from one particular form of employment to another. I think it is good to see the clarity of the Left Party where it stands on the issue of fixed-term contracts, because this has not been the case in the debate before. I understand that Ali Esbati finds the January agreement very difficult because it goes very contrary to the policy that Ali Esbati stands for. But for me as a Liberal, it is important that we get through these important structural changes that create unlocking effects. In the agreement, we also have a point about reforming labour law, and there, too, the form of fixed-term employment becomes an important issue.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-400	Madam President, I would like That was good and bad. It is bad that the representative of the Liberals here actually does not understand the difference between fixed-term employment and general fixed-term employment. Being employed on a fixed-term basis means that you are not permanently employed. But it is the form of general fixed-term employment that we in the Left Party have always wanted to abolish and still want to abolish. It is not the case that a fixed-term period means that everyone must be on permanent contracts, but the form of general fixed-term contracts means that the employer does not have to explain why you are hiring fixed-term contracts. That is what the discussion is about, and it is a pity that we are not making any progress there. It may still be a good thing that the very wide-ranging ignorance of how the Swedish labour market works is made clear in this debate. It is sometimes quite frustrating to discuss these issues when it is not possible to break opinions against each other, but there are misconceptions about the actual situation. I don't know if we're going to get that much further. We are therefore clear, as before, that we want to abolish general fixed-term employment as a form of employment, because it provides an opportunity for arbitrariness on the part of employers. There is no need to explain whether there is a need for seasonal, project or employment that only goes up to the choice, for example, because you do not need the employee anymore. Then just say: You are a fixed-term employee, and we do not need to explain why. It opens the door to arbitrariness, and we want to do away with that. As far as the unemployment benefit is concerned, I did not receive an answer at all. I note that having an entry obligatory would not solve any problems whatsoever. It is about making it easier to qualify for unemployment benefit, and there the Liberals, as I know, have no proposals whatsoever.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-404	Madam President, I would like I usually find Ali Esbati quite entertaining, especially in lines, but I pick up Ali Ali's lesson here in how the Swedish labour market works. I'm pretty good at it myself. It is interesting that in the second post, the right side of the Left Party's view of different forms of employment emerged. Now it becomes clear once again that you are not at all for fixed-term contracts, which actually provide the opportunity for so many people—young, foreign-born and so on—to get that first job. But I understand that in the world of Ali Ali, there is only one way into the labour market. That is why we have the great alienation to which the party of partly Ali Ali has contributed, not least during the last parliamentary term. I understand that it is difficult to bite that sour apple when Ali Esbati no longer has any power over government policy or the formulation of future labour market policy. You had that power last term of office. But it is quite good to be able to stand in this Chamber and agitate and run some wild-west policy without having to take responsibility for the rescheduling that needs to be done on the labour market so that we do not get outsiders and insiders but can reduce exclusion. It strikes so hugely hard on so many people who want nothing but to get into the labour market, get a job and feel that they are contributing and, above all, feel that they can stand on their own feet and not depend on society. But this is not what Ali Esbati sees.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-407	Madam President, I would like There have been some discussions here before whether to look dark or bright on the Swedish labour market. It is, of course, possible to see things in different ways. I think one way of looking at the Swedish labour market is to compare with other labour markets. If you do this, I would like to point out that whatever shortcomings exist in Sweden, we have the world's best functioning labour market. There is no labour market that can show better results than the Swedish labour market. Having said that and having said that, I would like to make it clear, however, that we Social Democrats are seeing and want to remedy the shortcomings that still exist. If we compare how the labour market works in different countries, we see that Sweden has the highest employment rate ever measured in the European Union. It can be seen as a good labour market or as a problematic one, but in that case I do not know how the situation would be described in other labour markets. If there is a labour market that works better somewhere, you have to take and lift that example. It would be interesting to see – this in connection with the previous debates. In recent years, employment has increased among both women and men. We have an employed population of 68.5%. The same positive trend has applied to both elderly and foreign born. It is said that we are the worst of all countries when it comes to foreign born. Although foreign-born women are one of the groups with a weaker position in the Swedish labour market, they have a stronger position than women in general in Europe. Is this good or bad? It is clear that it is a pity for the individual, because behind the figures are individuals who have lower levels of freedom in their lives because they do not have access to a job and their own income. We need to remedy this, but our system and model with its shortcomings cannot be blamed for being worse. This is extremely important to establish. Everyone should be happy about it. The Moderates, for example, should be delighted that the other year we set their labour market policy goals. What they had undertaken to do by 2020 we fixed in 2017, i.e. by many years of good margin. This positive development in the Swedish labour market has been created despite the fact that we have been exposed to some challenges, such as large migration. Nevertheless, we have done better than many other countries. While we have the challenge that there are some groups that are in a worse position on the Swedish labour market, although they have a relatively strong position when compared to the world, we have employers who have problems. There is another concern in the Swedish labour market that needs to be addressed, and it is about getting qualified staff to hire. If we are to put together the two different concerns, that there are people who find it difficult to enter the labour market and that employers find it difficult to find qualified staff, different forms of training efforts are crucial. This has been the focus of the current government, and we intend to continue to do so. We have the so-called January agreement. We Social Democrats are absolutely convinced that agreements will be kept. We are doing everything in our power to fulfil the commitments we make when concluding agreements with others. It is included, as it were, in the DNA of the Swedish labour movement to keep agreements. This is also a picture of how well the Swedish labour market works. The report addresses, among other things, the process of wage formation. The Swedish labour market, with the wage formation model that we have, has been able to deliver real wage increases for a very long time to the workers and employees and, at the same time, stability for employers. This has been good – a win-win situation – and contributes to what Moderate Hanif Bali called for and about which I agree: The conditions are a strong and stable economy. Our Swedish model has delivered this. Then you can always discuss the chicken and the egg. I usually tease my colleagues in the Committee on Finance and say: you would not have had any money if we in the Committee on Employment had not made sure that people get to work. But it can be a discussion around a coffee cup in some other place. There's been some discussion about history. I think history is very important, Madam President. Then, even with knowledge of history, one must be able to look forward and move on, but it is actually a little fun to know now when we are going to discuss how future employment protection rules should be designed in the Swedish labour market that the Employment Protection Act is an old liberal baby. The People's Party, as the Liberals were then called, was a strong representative and driving force for the introduction of the Employment Protection Act once upon a time. This can be fun to know about. There are other fun skills in history. As for the Moderates' view of the Employment Protection Act, the moderate representative, Hanif Bali, for example, said: We have always... What they have always done, I dare not answer, but the only thing I know is that they have changed their minds quite often. In this chair not very long ago, the moderate party chairman and Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said in principle that he did not understand how a deterioration in employment protection could reduce unemployment. In fact, he was opposed to a deterioration of the Employment Protection Act at the time, considering that they always have. Of course, the views of the Moderates today are their responsibility. I just want to correct the picture and in that way actually give Martin Ådahl the right – I can offer you that. The compulsory unemployment fund, which has been under discussion, was investigated under the previous government. I have seen a former moderate finance minister named Anders Borg debating this investigation. He took it, a little far from the body, between his thumb and forefinger, dumped it in the trash and said: I don't want to introduce taxes on labor. It was Anders Borg. One might think it was right or wrong, good or bad, but that was the opinion of the moderate Finance Minister on the matter. The summary of this is that we have a good situation in the Swedish labour market. We shall now comply with the commitments of the January Agreement. We shall of course make sure that we do so in a way so that we do not lose the good position that Sweden has when it comes to both the economy and the labour market. I support the committee's proposal and reject all motions.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-418	Madam President, I would like Where's the fighting spirit, comrade? It is a tired social democracy that we hear, a tired social democracy that only looks back. But where are the reforms for the future? It is a little strange that you as a moderate should have to come here and explain to a comrade that it is not just about high employment figures. There are also gaps, namely that the gap between native and foreign born has increased. The gap between native and foreign born, in particular asylum migrants, has increased. The knowledge gap between asylum migrants and the rest of the population has increased. This is not only the result of your policy – although you have been heavily involved – but it is the result of 20-30 years of Swedish politics, from right to left. Then maybe it's time to start thinking new and do a little different. Yet the Social Democrats are tired in the speaker's chair looking backwards. It's actually a little beyond me how it is that parties that go to elections with the slogan forward can align themselves with a gang that just looks back.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-421	Madam President, I would like Whether we are tired or not can be considered. We Social Democrats have a sisu, so we can work even when the work is hard. On several occasions we have had to roll up our sleeves properly and work. And if you work, you can get a little sweaty and breathless sometimes. I don't know if Hanif Bali has experienced it, but I can at least tell you that's how it works. Once again, when we have taken over after the failure of a bourgeois government and pushed unemployment down, got the economy up, got Sweden in order and made sure that the curves are moving in the right direction, it is clear that it may look like we have unbuttoned our shirt a little and rolled up our sleeves. I do not know whether I would like to regard it as fatigue, but that is what working people look like. We Social Democrats are working people, we represent the working part of the people and we are also in politics ready to face up to such challenges. Madam President, I would like Mr Bali is right, of course, that there is a problem with growing gaps. We also state in the January agreement that it is one of the things that we cooperation parties together are going to fix. The most important and absolutely basic method of doing so is to give people further away from the labour market the tools to enter the labour market. This is mainly done through educational measures and by strengthening the individual. It is then a win-win situation, because there is also a matching problem in the companies.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-424	Madam President, I would like I agree that in terms of the way in which we can reduce gaps, the cause of which is a lack of human capital, education is the best method we have. There are not many other methods. For some, it is about training in the traditional sense and for some it is about training in the workplace in a different sense. But that is why logic does not go hand in hand with the January agreement. If you are going to invest in education and ensure that a group of people need it, given the exclusion and poverty that we see in suburbs, it will require generations of efforts to eliminate the gaps that have been created in a very short time. At the same time, together with the Center Party and others, it is agreed to increase immigration to Sweden – increase the burden and divides due to the fact that even more people with a weak educational background enter the country. If it is so fast to damage and take so long to build up, I do not understand why the pressure is increased further. I agree with Patrik Björck that these are important issues. It is also important to invest in the individual and to create educational measures and so on. But mathematics doesn't make sense if thousands can be received in a year, but it takes 10 to 20 years to equalise the differences for these thousands of people when, year after year, you have constant replenishment of people who need a lot of help for a long time to enter the labour market, where more people also contribute to difficulties for those who have already come here to come in.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-427	Madam President, I would like I would also like to take this opportunity to remind Mr Bali that the cooperation parties agree that we should have a long-term sustainable migration policy. There is therefore nothing else to be taken up in that debate. We have a much more positive view of how to deal with exclusion issues. We have been able to note that in just a few years we have been able to halve the time it takes for people to establish themselves on the Swedish labour market. I am absolutely convinced that it is a wrong analysis of Mr Bali that it would have to take generations to tackle these problems in a genuine way. I am absolutely convinced that we can possibly talk about terms of office. But it is absolutely possible to deal with this challenge. We will deal with this with a great deal of seriosity, and we will ensure, together with our partners, that we resolve this. This is not, above all, in order for us to be able to stand and scrape in a speaker's chair about numbers and prove that the Swedish labour market is good. It's fun in itself. But it is of course about those individuals whose degree of freedom we need to increase, much like Gulan Avci, as an example in the speaker's chair, talked about her mother who increased her degree of freedom by getting to work. That is what it is all about, that is, that individual people's freedom should be increased by having access to employment and thus their own income and eventually a pension. We take this challenge very seriously, and we will take it with great force. During that time, we may look a little sweaty, Hanif Bali. But if he does, Hanif Bali will have to put up with it.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-429	Madam President, I would like I did not request a reply to Patrik Björck. I am waiting to see if the clear words he has expressed in the speaker's chair are actually realised in committee work, but also in the negotiations that we have with the government and which relate to the 73-point programme that we are now going to take on. Rather, I asked for a reply in order to clarify the misunderstanding that arose about the reservations that I called for in my speech. Of course, the Liberals are in favour of reservations 17 and 20.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-431	Madam President, I would like I would just like to take this opportunity to ensure that we Social Democrats stand by our word. We will, in good faith, fulfil the agreement that we have with our cooperation parties. There is no reason to suspect anything else on that point.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-432	Madam President, I would like Today I want to talk about class divisions, which probably makes some people wrinkle their foreheads. Given that the beginning and the course of my party following the historically lengthy process of government formation, I must perhaps begin by pointing out that with this I have not lost my überliberal compass and over night begun to embrace Karl Marx's hopes for a higher form of society based on the community of property, although there is certainly one or another who wants to assert the opposite. Historically, the class issue has mainly been about pitting entrepreneurs against workers, rich against poor and academics against workers. But the real class gap in our society today is between those who have a job and those who lack one. It goes between those who have work colleagues, skills development, coffee breaks, independence, freedom, their own pay and the opportunity to realize their life dreams and those who are not allowed in – those who do not get the chance but end up in an alienation with benefits, ill health and significantly worse prospects for the children in the family. This is the real class issue in Sweden in 2019. I claim that because I myself have been on both sides of this barrier. I'm saying it because I know what it means not to see your parents go to work. I claim that because I know what it feels like to not be able to afford to go on school trips or have four sizes for big football shoes and have to put papers in them to play. Madam President, I would like Let's talk about the elephant in the room. We know from the statistics that those who have immigrated to Sweden do not get jobs to the same extent as those who were born here. That is precisely why, and given the great responsibility that Sweden has taken for the refugee situation in recent years, we must ensure that those we have welcomed to our country also get the chance on the labour market – for their sake, for their children, for your sake and for me, and above all for Sweden's sake. It is important and gratifying that many people have found jobs in recent years, especially among those who are far from the labour market, although this is largely due to economic boom and has been achieved with strong subsidies and other labour market policies. Behind these figures are entrepreneurs who have developed their businesses and hired more. It is new Swedes who have fought hard to establish themselves in their new country and politicians of all the colours that at municipal, regional and national level have made wise decisions. But we also see that the class gap is not closing at a rapid enough pace and that it risks widening again when the recession comes. Strong structural reforms are now needed that take advantage of people's positive drivers before the recession is a fact. Madam President, I would like Who could have guessed that reforms that were impossible even under eight years of alliance rule are now the guiding principle of the political agenda? Thanks to the Center Party and the Liberals, the government is now implementing liberal reforms that provide a more flexible labour market, strengthened business and sharper job matching. These include reducing the risk premium for small and medium-sized enterprises by reducing employers' contributions and a relaxation of labour law that takes into account better individual conversion, towards greater freedom for employers to organise their activities more effectively. Madam President, I would like The Center Party will be a nail in the eye of the government Löfven. The liberal reforms laid down in the January Agreement are to be implemented. But we are not staying there, but the Centre Party in Parliament will work for even more liberal reforms in the field of labour markets. These include a further reduction in the costs of our job creators, that is, small and medium-sized enterprises. It is about reducing the regulatory burden, and it is about getting better conditions for labour migration so that companies can continue to be competitive in the future. Madam President, I would like It is with liberal politics that Sweden is developing, and it is with liberal reforms that we can combat class divisions and harness the skills that have flowed into Sweden in recent years – skills that need to be made visible and exploited. I and the Center Party refuse to allow people who have come to Sweden to be defined by their refugee status. They are professional women and professionals – teachers, nurses and bakers. They're truck mechanics, farmers and doctors. We refuse to allow professionals to be excluded. The class gap must be broken. This is the Center Party's mission in Swedish politics.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-441	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Alireza for the story he shared. I believe that not only I personally but also many others recognise themselves to a great extent. It is also a story that is strengthened and deepened every day, for more and more people. This exclusion, which we now see going for generations, is tragic. In some places in Sweden we have had a development that we did not have before. In the past, the second generation was always promised a better future than parents. In many places in Sweden it's not like that anymore, and it's new. I do not want to stand here and point out individual parties for these developments; this is a development for which many parties share a shared responsibility. On the other hand, we all have a duty to draw conclusions, and one conclusion is that it matters how many people come here. The second factor is this: if you decide on reforms that you know are not popular in broad electoral groups and implement them with reference to immigrants and immigration, it risks creating a breeding ground for populist currents. If you break labour law not because it is right or because you want to increase growth, but because we have received immigrants, it risks creating divisions between people and immigrants. Doesn't Alireza realize that conflict?
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-444	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the line, Hanif! It's actually my first change of line here in Parliament, so it feels a little exciting. Thanks also for seeing that we have a joint responsibility for the fact that there are gaps in Sweden. They are there; I admit it. I grew up in Tensta myself, and many of my friends I grew up with actually went pretty bad for. They were not given the opportunity to enter the labour market. They did not have the models needed to understand that there are alternative ways forward. However, I do not share your view that the size of immigration, in other words volumes, by definition is crucial, Mr Hanif. Instead, I would argue that immigrants who come here do not differ from you and me. People want to work and do the right thing, but we have systems that somehow lead people into stigmatization and exclusion. The important thing for me and the Center Party is to change the systems and make sure they help man rather than the other way around. There we differ a little, I see it as: I do not see immigration as a problem, but as an opportunity. Given the skills supply problems we have in several sectors over the next few years, we must not only work with the matching problems that exist but also ensure that we open up more labour migration in sectors that need skills.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-448	Madam President, I would like I believe that it is beyond only opinions whether the volume of immigration matters or not. That's probably a conclusion that everyone landed in after 2015. I know that your partner, the Social Democrats, definitely did, Alireza Akhondi. That is why I find the alliance between the Centre Party, the Liberals and the Social Democrats somewhat uncomfortable given how aggressive the rhetoric is when major unpopular reforms are to be introduced with reference to immigration. The Social Democrats do not see the danger in this, and the Center Party too is rather speed-blind and does not realise that such reforms do not help the target group in question. It is clear that the change in the Employment Protection Act increases growth, but it does not reduce unemployment among immigrants if it is due to their low skills. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise acknowledges that. I, who is a strongly believing market liberal, acknowledge that. Yet the Center Party pretends that these reforms are what will help. But they don't. Rather, they risk creating even greater gaps. Remember that the differences between native and foreign born in Sweden are greater than the differences between the white and the African American population in the United States in unemployment and in employment! I'm just saying that we should be a little happy that we have a welfare system in Sweden, because as a result, these gaps have not had as much impact as they could have had if we had a situation as in the United States, for example. That is why we need to move forward with caution and not do so in such an aggressive way as the Center Party does with the Social Democrats. At the same time, rhetoric is being used that creates even more contradictions between those who are established in the labour market, workers, and immigrants. I think that's a dangerous way to go.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-453	Madam President, I would like I am rather confused to hear Mr Bali argue about the reforms that are based on a liberal basis and about which we have had a broad consensus. How do you feel that we are pushing when we open up the labour market so that more people can get in? How is it dangerous for us to reduce companies' risk premium when it comes to hiring? In what way do you think that the Arbetsförmedlingen has functioned optimally and that the change we are making is harmful and unpopular? I'm not really getting it together, because I've always thought of you as a market liberal who sees these societal structural challenges. So now that I hear you argue, I wonder: What are the Moderates' alternatives to these changes, which we in the Center Party believe are the right ones in the future?
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-456	Madam President, I would like This weekend we had Social Democrats Party Congress, and one of the themes we had at Congress was education with a particular focus on knowledge for the future. Many of the motions discussed in the report concern this particular area. Therefore, in my speech, I would like to focus on what concerns the future labour market, skills development and lifelong learning. Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the world's most free, equal, innovative and competitive countries. Our success has been built by a labour movement that understands the importance of knowledge and education and welcomes change. We Social Democrats have seen education as the most important issue for the individual citizen. Our quest has always been to make it possible for everyone to get a good start in life. One should be able to develop as a human being and find new ways when jobs change, so that everyone can participate in building our society. Madam President, I would like In a time of great change, more knowledge is needed. When digitalisation and automation create new opportunities, jobs change rapidly. This requires increased competence for everyone in order to develop and take new steps in working life. As welfare requirements increase throughout the country, new skills are needed to exploit new technologies and develop more efficient ways of working. As global competition hardens, Sweden will step forward to continue to compete with knowledge and innovation. The Swedish labour market will compete with knowledge, development and innovation – not with low-wage jobs. Madam President, I would like There are many of us who remember the moderate-led government's time when many doors for adult learning were closed. We remember the 15 000 training places that disappeared from Komvux. The ability to read their qualifications and grades deteriorated dramatically. It became difficult for many to educate themselves because of cuts and lack of space. That is why we Social Democrats have fought through all times to ensure that the strength and opportunities of education come to everyone. It is a political struggle that has been waged against the political right, which, on the contrary, has wanted to make education a privilege for a few. It is basically a struggle that is about the divides in our society, in which we Social Democrats fight to fight them when others want to let them persist or even let them grow. Madam President, I would like There must be good opportunities for those who for some reason have not been able to get this education later in life from primary and secondary school. There must also be opportunities for those whose education has become obsolete to acquire up-to-date knowledge. The education should be accessible to everyone throughout their lives. I am therefore pleased that the government has, among other things, increased and improved the means of study so that more adults are given the opportunity to study. It has also introduced a right for everyone to study in Komvux and a new start-up grant. There is also a comprehensive knowledge boost with 93 000 new training places and higher quality in various forms of education up to 2021. Madam President, I would like The labour shortage is now enormous in the public sector, but also in the services sector. According to the trade union Kommunal, municipalities and county councils need to recruit nearly 13,000 nurses and carers and around 2,000 child care workers per year up to 2023. When I meet representatives of the business community in IT, the tourism industry or the service industry, I hear that they have something in common: Access to the right skills is crucial for their ability to create successful businesses and new jobs. Good matching is therefore a prerequisite for strong productivity developments in the economy. Madam President, I would like In order to counteract polarisation and achieve a dynamic labour market with better matching and continued high employment, the Government's investment in new training places in vocational adult education and training is a step in the right direction. The Government's initiative means that more people can acquire upper secondary vocational education, supplement their upper secondary education or retrain to a new profession. In addition, the Yrkeshögskolan will be expanded with 44 000 places of study by 2022. The January agreement, which has been mentioned several times, stresses that the possibilities for conversion should be strengthened and that employers' labour needs with the right training should be better met. Madam President, I would like Our ability to respond to the needs of the future for continuous competence development throughout our working lives is crucial for Sweden's competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion. That is why we must continue to create the conditions for new ideas to grow and new jobs to be created. At the same time, we must create the conditions for lifelong learning. People need opportunities for retraining – often more than once – to take the jobs that exist in a labour market into constant development. Finally, Madam President, without investment in education, our productivity and our capacity for innovation are put at risk. Our strength is in danger of deteriorating in international competition, which is becoming increasingly fierce. People risk getting caught up in jobs that do not offer either development or security. Without joint investment in education, we will have increased inequality and increasing polarisation. Such development fuels populism and puts the confidence in democratic society at risk. Therefore, knowledge is security. Knowledge is strength. Knowledge is power – power to take place and be able to change society, but also power over one's own life. With that, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject any motion for a resolution.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-472	Madam President, I would like When we are discussing the AU6 report of the Committee on Employment today, I would like to talk about disability issues. Persons with disabilities should be able to be fully involved in all aspects of political, social, economic and cultural life. Everyone who can work should work – it is one of the cornerstones of the Swedish model. But for this group of people it is often not enough that one wants and can, even though one is needed in the labour market and that an essential part of every person's life is to have an anchor in the labour market. According to Statistics Sweden's statistics, the employment rate of persons with disabilities with reduced working capacity is 56%. At the same time, six out of ten people with reduced work capacity who were not employed stated that they both wanted and could have worked if they had received the right support. Labour market policy needs to have a stronger focus on the participation of these people in working life. People's skills and experiences are needed and should be taken into account, regardless of whether the person has functional variations or not. It creates the conditions for independence and self-determination. We need to change the way we look at this group of people. Today we have a lot of focus on what people can't. Instead, if we began to look at what people can do, I think it would be much easier for these people to take their place in the labour market. Let me give you an example. I know a guy, a little over 20 years old. He has a severe visual impairment, impaired hearing and aspberger. This is an amazing guy. He is a good musician – his great interest is music. He is out performing in a variety of places, substitute as a cantor and has also performed abroad. This is possible thanks to his amazing parents and others who have seen his skills and been able to support and push him so that he has these opportunities. Now not everyone has his talent, but other people in this group have other abilities that should be taken care of. Madam President, I would like Some positive things are happening on this issue. The Public Employment Service's annual report shows that the transition to work and studies has increased for this group. However, for this positive development to continue for the group with a more vulnerable position in the labour market, support is needed to adapt the workplace and financial support for the employer. In this respect, the government has carried out a series of efforts during the last term of office to strengthen the group's opportunities in the labour market. The ceiling for wage subsidies has been increased. This year it is raised to SEK 19,100 and next year to SEK 20,000. The compensation has also been increased to Samhall, this year to 870 million and next year to just over 1 billion. Efforts for people who are far removed from the labour market and people with disabilities continue. This year 1 883 million will be invested. Despite this, there are some problems in this area that need to be lifted. One is employers' lack of knowledge of the support they can get. Sometimes it's also a matter of prejudice. Another problem is that if you want to change jobs and move, the support you received is linked to your municipality or region. You cannot apply for new support until you are registered at your new address. This may mean that you will be out of support for six months. It can also mean that you can't work. Another thing that is not adapted to today's labour market is work travel. You can travel between home and work, but if you have a job that means that you have your office in one place but also work in different places – for example if you are a school informant – you cannot use work trips to go to these places. These are just a few examples. So there are some things that need to be done, both for those who have jobs and for those who do not have jobs. Madam President, I would like One thing that worries me when we talk about this group is the major cuts that are taking place at Arbetsförmedlingen. Many in this group need a lot of support to get into the labour market, and the Public Employment Service has a lot of expertise here. It can be difficult for many to use digital services, and it can also be difficult to travel long distances. This could involve discussions to get employers to hire, negotiations with employers on pay subsidies, discussions on workplace adjustment, work tools, etc. I'm afraid it's this group that's paying the price for the Arbetsförmedlingen's cutbacks.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-483	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by stating that the Moderates are, of course, behind all their reservations. However, in order to gain time and facilitate the process for all, I am content to call for the approval of reservation 7 in the report. Madam President, I would like Let me be clear at the outset: integration is one of the major societal challenges of our time. The fact that we succeed better over the next few decades in ensuring that people enter the labour market, become part of Swedish society and have their own income to support themselves will be crucial to ensuring the cohesion of our society. Once again, making the mistakes that we have made historically, with relatively large immigrant groups coming to Sweden and a situation where it has been relatively easy to come here but relatively difficult to enter the labour market, cannot be an option. In the wake of this, we risk social problems, exclusion and contradictions. Madam President, I would like Sweden is tough on, but not really everyone is allowed to come on the train. At the same time as it is currently the biggest problem for Swedish employers to find staff, unemployment is still at high levels for certain groups. The employment gap between native and foreign born is worryingly large in Sweden. Unfortunately, it has also grown in recent years, despite the boom. Today, it is four times more common for people born abroad to be unemployed in Sweden than if they were born in Sweden. It is a factor greater than in most comparable countries in our environment. The problems are great, but there is also enormous potential for Sweden. If we succeed in halving the job gap, this would mean that bnp would increase by over SEK 40 billion. It is a huge change and, of course, a huge asset that is possible there. If foreign women were to work as much as Swedish women do today, the bnp would increase with breathtaking SEK 93 billion, according to the parliamentary investigation service. That is the funding of welfare, my friends! Madam President, I would like Today, men and women who are trapped in exclusion are not just men and women — many of them are also parents. We have a responsibility in politics to ensure that the long and arduous journey that it means for many to get closer to the labour market and finally get into it is possible, for the simple reason that we cannot tolerate exclusion being passed on to the next generation. In short: If we are to strengthen cohesion in Sweden and ensure that more young people can experience faith in the future in their new home country, more children need to see their parents go to work. Madam President, I would like If we are to succeed in this, we have a number of reforms that need to be put in place. You need to focus more quickly on learning Swedish when you come to Sweden, and you need to get access to the labour market faster. Today it takes over eight years for 50% of new arrivals to be integrated into the labour market. But even after the eight years, there is still a great need for financial support to make ends meet. After nine years, only 60% of the income from your own salary is paid. The rest will continue to come from grants. We are now seeing how new arrivals have entered the labour market more and more quickly in recent years, which is extremely gratifying. While we see this, all serious experts bear witness to the fact that no major policy reforms have actually taken place to make it possible, but are simply a strong boom that drives and ensures that those furthest from the labour market are easier to enter. In other words, it is still important to ensure that reforms are put in place to ensure that the group that is the furthest from and the most difficult to enter the labour market and who is then the most insecure at work today has the chance to keep the job even when we enter a recession. It is always those who have the weakest links to the labour market who get the most difficult when the recession strikes. If reforms have not been implemented then in order to actually increase flexibility in the Swedish labour market and strengthen integration, this will have consequences. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs to make a choice. We need to decide once and for all whether we want to work primarily with integration through passive contributions where people are guaranteed a minimum level but honestly not guaranteed integration into society or whether we want to make the choice that everyone should actually have the right to contribute and feel needed. It will place much higher demands on us and on politics. It's harder, and there's nothing going on with a few simple quick fixes. It is about making it more profitable to work. It is about reducing taxes on low incomes so that people can actually make money by taking that first job and entering the labour market. We need to make it possible to scale down support so that it becomes economically sustainable for those who currently live on subsidies to actually take a job and earn their own money. We need to get more focus on the language of the establishment. We need early action, and we need to make higher demands on Swedish learning for permanent residence permits and ultimately citizenship in Sweden. This is how we value Swedish language and citizenship, and so we make sure to create driving forces for integration for all parties. Madam President, I would like We also need a subsidy reform in Sweden. In fact, we need to make demands on those who receive subsidies to make themselves employable and move closer to the labour market. It must be possible to impose training requirements on those living on supply aid, and it cannot be the case that it is more profitable to stack subsidies on each other than actually to work. Actual changes are needed here. The Swedish Parliament has already decided on tightening up the requirements for compensation. It is high time that the government actually followed those decisions and acted accordingly. Unfortunately, over the last four years, the government has chosen to do exactly the opposite of the descriptions that have just been painted. The words have been great but the stakes have been the fewer. Fortunately, Madam President, many municipalities have chosen to take the lead and have shown that there is an opportunity in Sweden today to pursue an active integration policy that actually works and brings people closer to the labour market. The municipalities that have gone ahead must be given the opportunity to do so in full. We therefore believe that the municipalities that wish to take over the new arrivals' mandate must also be given this opportunity. This is all the more important, Madam President, in the light of the changes that we are now seeing the government instigating in relation to the Employment Service. Misunderstand me correctly: The reform of the Employment Service is good. This is even borne out by the Employment Service's own staff. However, the way in which the existing organisation is being pulled away without having a new system in place means that the burden and the work effort will instead land where they always land when the Swedish parliament and government make ill-considered decisions, namely at the knee of our municipalities. This risks hitting the establishment and the local economy hard. It's not just about doing the right things, it's also about doing the right thing. The municipalities that want to take over the establishment mandate must be given this opportunity, and then they also need to have the necessary financial resources.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-498	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by agreeing with all the reservations expressed by the Swedish Democrats, but for the time to come, I only ask for the approval of reservation No 3. Madam President, I would like We are at a time when violence is spreading in our society. The gross ruthless violence is increasing, and nowadays you hardly raise your eyebrows when you read about shootings and murders that take place on the street. In fact, we in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö have as much shootings as in the Mafia's Naples. When it comes to hand grenade attacks – taste that word – Sweden is on the same level as the Mexico of the drug war. It is a terrible development that we have seen in recent years. Outside areas that are usually talked about – what in Denmark is called ghetto – have grown in recent years. If one were to merge all alienation areas in Sweden, it would be Sweden's second largest city. In Denmark it would be said that in Sweden there is a ghetto that is larger than Gothenburg. Madam President, I would like The lack of resources in welfare means that there are too few employees in health care and municipal care. Those users who need healthcare and municipal care do not always have access to that care when they need it, and those who work there need to work because they have far too few colleagues. We see how a large proportion of Sweden's pensioners are worse off than in a very long time. At the same time, we see how to take resources from these areas – from well-being and from pensions and other parts of the public – and use them for increased immigration, integration projects, grants and care. Sometimes they even go to grown men who come here and lie about being children. We see how honour violence spreads in Sweden. We're getting more and more out of it. Figures in this area are always difficult because there is a great deal of uncertainty, but according to some it is about 100 000 minors in Sweden who feel that they may not be able to choose who to marry and will be married. According to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, there are around 40 000 women in Sweden who have been circumcised. Madam President, I would like These are just a few snapshots of the disastrous development that we have seen in Sweden in recent years. We shall have this in the back of our minds, now that we are meeting here in Parliament to discuss integration and, more specifically, this report, which I am presenting to the Members of this House. It contains a number of integration policy proposals on which the Riksdag is to take a position. Madam President, I would like There is nothing in the report that will reverse any of the points I have just mentioned. I'm afraid that's the way it is. You cannot heal the wounds of an irresponsible immigration policy with a comprehensive integration policy. I can't. It hasn't worked anywhere in any country in the world. It will not work in Sweden either. This is a lesson drawn by an increasing number of international politicians. You know it's that way. Unfortunately, they often do so because they look at Sweden as a deterrent. You can see that we have tried it and that it cannot be done. That's a problem for us. In Denmark, for example, one looks with horror at Sweden when one sees that the gross violence is spreading, that organised crime is becoming more common and that shootings are now taking place on the open street to quite a large extent in Sweden. We look at it with horror, because we do not have those problems to the same extent in Denmark. Why do we not have the same problem of gross violence in Denmark as we do in Sweden, Madam President? This is not because there has been a broader integration policy in Denmark. That's not why. It is because there has been lower migration of asylum and family members. The same applies to Finland. More recently, there has been agitated and worried about increased sex crimes. And it is linked to the increase in immigration. But Finland is not even close to having as much problems with sexual crimes as Sweden has. Developments in this area have been terrible in recent years. In the Swedish national security survey that came the other year, one in four young Swedish women reported that she had been the victim of a sexual crime in 2017. At the same time, Mission review showed that 85 percent of all assault rapes were committed by people born outside Europe. Madam President, I would like Why is it that Finland does not have the same problem as we have with increased sexual offences? This is not because they have invested more in, or have had, more developed integration policies. This is because they have had a lower level of asylum and family migration. In Norway you are appalled when you look at Sweden and see the parallel communities that are emerging in some suburbs of Sweden, with alternative legal systems where you almost try to apply sharia legislation to keep people in some sort of chess. You look at it with worry. And you look with concern at the increased gaps and so on. There are similar problems in Norway, to some extent, but not at all to the same extent as in Sweden. Why is it that Norway does not have the same problem as we do? This is not because they have spent more money on integration. This is because they have had a lower level of asylum and family migration. That's how it's connected. Madam President, I would like There are addresses in Sweden, streets, where postmen cannot hand out letters. If they try to do so, they will be attacked. It's true. It's hardly that you believe it. But that's actually the way it is. Both Postnord and UPS have selected certain addresses where they simply cannot deliver messages. In some areas, ambulance personnel and fire brigades cannot go on call without a police escort. If they try to do that, they'll be attacked with rocks and sticks. If I had tried to tell my grandmother and grandfather or others a few decades ago, I don't think they would have believed in such a development. It would not have been possible to believe that this could happen in Sweden. But it does look like that today. Unfortunately, there is nothing in this report, which I am now showing to Members of this House, that will reverse this development. We also see that more and more foreign authorities are trying to warn their citizens about travelling to Sweden in different ways. We have seen it in Britain, Canada and Thailand. They warn that there is an increased risk of terror. They warn that there is a great risk of being subjected to robbery, for example, if you move out in the evenings. In particular, they warn against certain residential areas in Sweden where there is absolutely no need to move. Madam President, I would like There is nothing in this report that will reverse that trend. The lack of resources we see in healthcare continues. We see that the care queues are still among the longest in Europe. We see that far too few people work in municipal care, home care. We see that a large proportion of Sweden's pensioners are in a worse situation than in a very long time. We also see that we continue to take money from those areas and instead spend it on immigration, expensive integration projects and various types of contributions and care for people who have sometimes lied and may even come here as adults but claim that they were children when they arrived. Madam President, I would like There is nothing in this report to suggest that there would have been a change of opinion on this issue or a shift in policy. This is more of the same old disaster policy that has been pursued for a number of decades in Sweden. Madam President, I would like There are only two clearly effective measures that could be taken to remedy the problems and reverse the developments I have described. The first measure is that we must substantially reduce the migration of asylum and family members to Sweden. There have been far too many people here for far too long. We cannot deal with that situation. This is obvious in the light of these developments. The second measure is that we must dare to make demands on people who have come here. We must say that whoever comes to Sweden should take the custom where they come and adapt to Swedish society. Of course, you should follow the laws and rules that we have here but also adapt to our way of life. One should not come here and try to impose honorary culture or other types of cultural detour. You're supposed to take the custom where you come from. If it is not appropriate, if you cannot accept it, there are other countries in which you can live. These are the two measures that we should take in order to really reverse developments. If we do, I also have proposals for a third measure, Madam President, a bonus measure that I think we should take. We should take this report and put it in a museum which is ineffective and, in many cases, counterproductive. Then the future generations of politicians can go to the museum, read the report and hopefully avoid making the same mistakes we have made in Sweden.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-521	Madam President, I would like It is a rather night-black picture that the Swedish Democrats Henrik Vinge paints in the speaker's chair. Of course, there are many things that need to be changed in Swedish politics. Of course, there are many things that need to be different when it comes to the establishment of new arrivals in the Swedish labour market, the integration as a whole and not least the social integration that results from the opportunities offered by having your own income and work. And certainly migration policy has an impact on integration policy and vice versa. Nevertheless, I am struck by a strange thought when I hear the Swedish Democrat Henrik Vinge in the speaker's chair. Henrik Vinge is waving this report, which I am now also showing to the Members of this House, noting that there is nothing in it that makes Swedish integration policy better. The report contains two motions from the Swedish Democrats, one of which is from Henrik Vinge himself. It may be a rhetorical question, but I would like to put it to Mr Vinge, Madam President. Is it not only a brutal and honest rejection of the Swedish democrats in a non-existent integration policy when it is stated that one's own proposals in this area, according to one's own, are not worth anything?
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-524	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Bengtzboe, for an excellent question! This gives me the opportunity to illustrate exactly what I mean. As you say, the Swedish Democrats have two proposals in this area. One concerns social science, and the other concerns the reception of new arrivals. However, the two proposals, which certainly could do some good, can only make a small difference between the margin, perhaps for some and to some extent. On the whole, however, the two proposals will not be able to remedy the problems I mentioned in my speech. The same applies to all the other proposals in the report. What is in the report is small adjustments to the margin. You can possibly adjust something here or there. But the major changes, which could really reverse the disastrous development that we have seen, are the reduction of immigration and clearer demands. That's what you have to do. Until that is done, the proposals contained in the report are not worth much. That's my point. First of all, we must make the major structural and strategic changes, those that can actually make a difference. Then we can begin to look at the more peripheral issues and details, which in some cases could certainly make a little difference for someone but which will not solve the problem in depth.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-528	Madam President, I would like I do not really share the description that Swedish labour law and labour market policy are small peripheral issues, although it is undoubtedly as it has already been stated – that migration has a major impact on integration. Of course, Sweden's ability to quickly integrate more people into society depends on how many people come, what level of education they have and what action they then take. This also depends on how well the Swedish labour market is doing. If we enable highly skilled immigrants to come to Sweden, it will strengthen the Swedish economy, which will benefit everyone who has a weak position in the Swedish labour market. However, migration certainly has a major impact. Virtually all parties in the Swedish parliament, I dare say, have in the last ten years made quite strong reviews of their migration policy. Despite what is said from and out of this pulpit, there is a widespread awareness that migration affects integration and the social cohesion of society – hence the great reversals that the previous government made and hence the great reversals that other parties have also made during the period. There has been a lot of focus on other parties that have changed their minds or, so to speak, twisted their views on migration policy. But the development during the period that I think is almost most interesting is the view of the Swedish democrats on migration. As in this debate, their obsession with migration is exposed. When Swedish migration policy is tightened up, the Swedish Democrats' answer is always: Fewer! If there were zero immigrants who came to Sweden, the answer of the Swedish Democrats would always be: Fewer! There are in Sweden's parliament parties that only point to problems, and to them the Swedish Democrats join. There are also parties who pretend that there are no problems. I am proud to represent a party that recognises problems but also shows that they can be solved.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-532	Madam President, I would like My view is that the most important issue when it comes to tackling the problems of increased violence in society, with the areas of exclusion that exist, with the culture of honour we have in Sweden and so on is that we have to understand that it is the great immigration that is at the root of them. That's why they've arisen. We can only solve them by addressing the issue of immigration. Erik Bengtzboe believes that some kind of obsession is behind this. But it is only a simple observation that we cannot solve these problems with a comprehensive integration policy. I can't. Some integration policy proposals can certainly have some effect and some may even be good, but they are not enough. That's not where the big problem is solved. This is solved by reducing immigration and by making demands. You have to dare say to those who come to Sweden that certain rules apply here and we live in a certain way. You have to adapt to this if you're going to live here. It is these two proposals that can make a difference in depth. Now Erik Bengtzboe has no opportunity to answer questions, but I can at least give him a message. Erik Bengtzboe may wonder, Madam President, whether the proposals contained in the report will actually reduce gun violence in Sweden. Will the proposals reduce exclusion areas in Sweden? Are they becoming fewer thanks to the proposals that are here? Will the violence of honor decrease? Are fewer people at risk of being married because of the proposals that exist here? Will foreign authorities stop recommending their citizens not to travel to Sweden or no longer warn them from travelling to Sweden because of the proposals contained in the report? I do not believe, Madam President, that Erik Bengtzboe thinks so. Without me, he also understands, as I do, that migration is the fundamental question of solving these problems.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-537	Madam President, I would like It is always exciting to have the floor after a Swedish democrat. The reality description that was just conveyed by Henrik Vinge for unsearched thought of doomsday. It is almost that I have to rush out to see if the sky has really fallen down or if Sweden continues to be one of the world's best countries to live in. I am also struck by the fact that the Swedish Democrats again come up with a lot of criticism but no proposals of their own in this area. When I was writing my speech, I was amused to read a lot of motions, including the Swedish Democrats' motion on the subject. In the area by area, they make money. But when I look for what proposals the Swedish Democrats have, I find none. Madam President, I would like I don't usually give speeches very often. And once I do, it's usually too already saved or for people who have decided beforehand that I'm wrong and who therefore got a deaf ear before they even got their pulse up. Nor is it any better for the subject of today to be debated in many ways both lengthwise and abruptly, including in this House. Madam President, I would like Most of us are aware that a blunt concept of integration is not really saying anything about the state of things. Nevertheless, we continue to insist on attaching excessive weight to this bland concept, i.e. on integration, in the political debate. It is as if better functioning integration automatically is a miracle cure against contradictions, unemployment, educational attainment and unwanted norms and values. Nor does it benefit from the fact that integration is, in fact, an extremely complex subject, even for me who, for two years on a day-to-day basis, has been working on the issue of the role of Head of Integration in a municipal administration. Apart from the difficulty of agreeing what we really mean by integration, or the even more difficult task of determining when someone is sufficiently integrated, the state is hardly an appropriate judge of this. When politicians want to define what people are or should be, all warning bells should sound to the full. Madam President, I would like Regardless of the choice of concepts and interpretations of their meaning, there are challenges in our country that require our full attention. We see a clear emergence of parallel societies where people are prevented from exercising their self-evident rights, and we see a major integration and gender equality challenge in overcoming the differences in employment rates between foreign and domestic born women and men. This becomes even more distressing given that we have found ourselves in a fiery boom that is now being slowed down, albeit slowly. These developments are worrying on several levels. Partly it is about the obvious – reduced tax revenues and increased costs of transfers, i.e. grants. Above all, however, these are things that may not be immediately visible and measured, namely increased health care costs, lower school outcomes for children with all its consequences for the individual's ability to break the exclusion and, finally, a significant bill for the crime that comes with this exclusion. So what can we do? Quite a lot, I promise, at least if we are brave and have the endurance required. The January Agreement now gives us an opportunity to find some solutions to the challenges we have in this area. For example, a reformed labour market with lower thresholds for individuals can pave the way for all the benefits of self-sufficiency for people's development. It is with a job that you get the opportunity to make a housing career, develop the language and give your children the opportunity to realize their dreams. However, there are measures that are not within the framework of the January agreement, such as the role of municipalities and civil society in the integration process. However, this does not mean that we in the Centre Party do not see or have proposals to give municipalities, regions and civil society better opportunities to shoulder the responsibilities needed to give newcomers a faster way into our society. Madam President, I would like The municipalities are key actors in the Swedish integration work. Most municipalities want to take part in taking responsibility for the reception of refugees. But they lack tools for a dignified and well-functioning reception. The Center Party therefore wants to see reforms that give municipalities the right tools to cope with integration. For example, state compensation for the local government sector needs to be reviewed and redistributed in a different way to today. There are also other important players. According to recent statistics from SCB, the value of total civil society production in 2016 was SEK 236 billion. Payments from public administration to this production were modest 33 billion. Although this covers much more than integration, it clearly demonstrates the economic rationality of the public sector to interact with the non-profit sector in order to increase the value of each invested tax chandelier. Madam President, I would like Integration is a complex subject. It is a subject that touches upon and it is often discussed, both here in this House and at the kitchen tables. Let us raise the level of the debate, see the whole and put the resources where they best do good. There are many billions spent annually on various integration efforts. Today, however, no one has the main responsibility for coordinating efforts and ensuring that they are put in place at the right time, for the right person and at the right stage. We have to change that. In times when resources are not endless, we need to review, streamline and ensure that public intervention is quality assured and, above all, does not undermine people's right and duty to be a part of Swedish society. I would like to conclude my speech by calling for approval of the Centre Party's reservations 4 and 15 in the report.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-551	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alireza – I am flattered that I was apostrophated already in the main speech. Madam President, I would like Alireza points out the fact that I am highlighting the increasing violence in Sweden. Today we have gunpower and gunfire on the street at the same level as in Naples of the Mafia. In Stockholm alone, the police have around 140 open investigations into murder and attempted murder. Sweden has never been so insecure. In 2017, one quarter of young Swedish women reported that they had been exposed to sexual offences. When I highlight these things, according to Alireza, it would be some kind of doomsday prophecy. I emphasise that the alienation areas have increased. Not least during the time of the Center Party in the government, exclusion areas increased significantly. This fact is, of course, to a very large extent at the root of the increased violence in society. So when I highlight it, it would be some kind of doomsday prophecy. But if I hadn't brought this up, who would have? Is it not reasonable for us in the Swedish Parliament to discuss such a development? I think it is strange that one is in some way trying to tell that I am highlighting this, because it is something that really affects people and plays a role for a lot of people in our country. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, Alireza argued that I did not make any proposals whatsoever. As Erik Bengtzboe well pointed out, there are two proposals in the report. However, I also mentioned in my main speech two key proposals concerning what we need to do. One is to reduce asylum and family migration. My question to Alireza is: does Alireza believe that integration problems are somehow linked to the size of immigration? The second proposal is that we make demands and tell people that those who come to Sweden will adapt to Swedish society and to our way of life. My second question to Alireza is: Does Alireza think you should do this, or should we think it's okay that people come here and try to impose honorary culture and other types of cultural aversion?
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-555	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Henrik for his reply. I certainly think it is reasonable to highlight the challenges you see. But you can highlight things in many different ways. Challenges can be highlighted and highlighted, but at the same time concrete proposals can be made for solutions. I belong to the category that sees the problems. I have grown up in alienation and seen the consequences of society's failures in some areas. But that does not mean that I collectively blame the people and see them as the obstacle. I see the possibilities. I see our joint responsibility, Henrik Vinge, to ensure that we create a society in which all people have an opportunity to realize themselves and that we deal with the problems that exist in society. This is what sets me apart from the Swedish Democrats – at the same time as we in the Center Party see many of the problems that Henrik Vinge highlights, we also come up with proposals for solutions. Of course, people who come to Sweden have both rights and obligations. It is a question of adapting to the rules, laws and standards that exist in our country. But norms and values are not static, Henrik Vinge, but they change over time. We have a common responsibility to ensure that we do not pit groups against each other and create conflicts.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-557	Madam President, I would like I am not sure that I understand Mrs Alireza correctly, and I would like us to have some clarification, but I have to admit that this scares me a little bit. When we talk about honour violence, oppression of women in the name of honour and the fact that you are being married or mutilated by sex, Alireza talks about values not being static but changing. Does Alireza mean that we have to accept that in Sweden there is some sort of shift in valuation where we go towards accepting such things? I hope that is not what Alireza means, but you can actually interpret what he says in that way. My view is that in some cases we have values in Sweden that we can be proud of and happy about. If you want to live in our country, you have to accept those values. One of them is that men and women are equal and have the same rights. There should be no shift in value in that area at all, but we should have such values and safeguard them. I note that Alireza does not really answer the question: is it the case that integration problems are linked to the size of immigration, or are they not? My view is that they are, to the very greatest extent, and that it is, as a matter of urgency, the great immigration that is at the root of the problems of integration. Does Alireza agree with that picture or not? With regard to what Mr Alireza mentions about all these proposals that the Center Party and other parties have, I think I can recognise both the rhetoric and the proposals. It has sounded something like this for a number of years from the established parties. My third and final question to Alireza is: how does he think this has gone?
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-561	Madam President, I would like I think that the issue is complex enough anyway – we should not be dealing with conscious misinterpretations. We'll stay away from it. I haven't stood here defending honor or genital mutilation. We fully agree that such things do not belong in Sweden in 2019. Let us be clear about that. We in the Center Party have always defended a generous migration policy, for many reasons. We in Sweden have the responsibility to do our part in a troubled world to help people who flee from religious persecution, oppression, war and other things, and we believe in depth that a generous immigration and migration policy is beneficial to our society and that Sweden develops through more people coming here and contributing to our common. The answer is therefore no – I do not see a clear link between the size of migration and the integration challenges. Rather, I see it as a responsibility for us to ensure that we address the problems that create the consequences that migration can have. I have forgotten Henrik Vinge's third question. I apologize for that, and I'll try to remember it for the next time.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-564	Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants a humane and welcoming refugee policy in Sweden and Europe. Such a policy is based on a rights perspective and is based on a strong and general welfare. Everyone should have the opportunity to seek refuge from war, oppression and persecution and to have their asylum grounds tested in a legally secure manner. EU countries must take a much greater responsibility for the reception of people on the run. Legal roads must replace today's dangerous journeys across the Mediterranean. The Swedish reception of people on the run needs to be developed. The length of asylum proceedings must be reduced. The establishment of new arrivals must be speeded up and the skills of new arrivals must be better exploited. Education and language teaching must be developed and strengthened. The Left Party wants the state to have overall responsibility for receiving refugees and migrants in Sweden. The reception of refugees must therefore have clear national governance and adequate state funding. Refugee policy is about being able to give people protection and a new home where they can feel welcome and involved in society. Every human being should be seen as an asset and never a burden, but a person's contribution to society should never determine his value for it. Through a well-functioning reception, people who come here can gain the security and tools they need to establish themselves in society and contribute fully to the community. That is also the only way, by showing the way, we can convince other states to welcome people in need and to take their full responsibility. Madam President, I would like Work is an important prerequisite for people to enter society, but not just any job and never at all. Fair pay, good working conditions and workable collective agreements must be central to all job creation efforts. The Left Party proposes a series of measures to ensure that asylum seekers can get to work as quickly as possible without strengthening inequalities in the labour market. The image of new arrivals' entry into the labour market is often excessively pessimistic, partly due to unreasonable expectations and a lack of understanding of the challenges of entering a new society after leaving their home country. But it is also because there is a political agenda behind exaggerating the problems and challenges. When comparing with other countries, Sweden is doing very well. In addition to combating discrimination, the ability of newcomers to establish themselves in the labour market is crucial to the existence of jobs to apply for. Madam President, I would like In the context of labour market policy, there are various forms of subsidised employment. They aim to encourage employers to employ people who are far from the labour market. It is the long-term unemployed, newcomers or people with disabilities. Subsidised employment compensates employers financially if they hire job seekers who meet the criteria set for the various grants. The number of foreign born with various forms of subsidised employment has increased in recent years. Between the first half of 2017 and the same period in 2018, subsidised jobs among foreign born persons increased from around 38,000 to 43,000 during the period. The Left Party believes that subsidised employment is a good and necessary measure to help newcomers to become more closely linked to the labour market. Employers are very much in favour of people who, for various reasons, are far removed from the labour market. The use of subsidised employment also has support in research. Studies show that people who have been in subsidised employment generally find a job with no support faster than those who have been openly unemployed. However, the Left Party notes that the current system of subsidised employment has been fraught with risks and problems for a long time. Unserious employers, for example, can make use of the system in ways that put new arrivals in a difficult situation. Madam President, I would like Newcomers who take a job that does not match their skills face difficulties in advancing to a job that matches their qualifications. One of the reasons for this is, according to Saco's studies, that the doors between jobs and the right jobs are very often closed. The workload of administrators at the Employment Service is already too high, if there is an employment service. Anyone who comes into one of the agency's offices and says that it already has a job but would like a new one can probably not expect much help. This affects foreign-born academics particularly hard, as they are estimated to have eight times higher risk of having unskilled work compared to a Swedish-born academic. A recently published research report from Jusek – The right job for foreign-born academics – shows that foreign-born academics are over-represented among those who have a job below their qualification level. In addition, the number of over-qualified has increased to 55 000 today. Of these, 10 000 have a job that only requires primary education. The report shows that public finances would be strengthened by SEK 13 billion per year if foreign-born academics had the same position on the labour market as native-born academics. One way to improve mobility and matching could be to introduce a validation year. The validation year means that a person who has a job that does not match his/her qualifications would have the opportunity to leave his/her position to someone who is unemployed for three to twelve months. During the validation period, the individual's educational background would be mapped, the training supplemented and the individual offered internships to get a foothold in the right industry. In this way, a flexible solution is created to correct the matching of people who have a job for whom they are overqualified. The Left Party believes that the government should investigate the possibility of introducing a validation year. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to say that, of course, the Left Party supports all its reservations, but I choose to highlight reservation No 8.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-575	Madam President, I would like The starting point for Christian Democrats when it comes to integration is that people who have come to our country should be given the opportunity to take responsibility for their own lives. The state should help to facilitate and create conditions, not kill its own drive through long waiting and passivity. Sweden has in recent years taken a great responsibility for people on the run. However, a large reception of refugees requires well-functioning integration. Unfortunately, Sweden is showing poor results in this respect. For foreign born, unemployment is more than three times higher than for natives. For people from outside Europe, the difference is significantly greater. After eight years in Sweden, only 25 per cent of those in need of protection or dependents have received a full year's employment. Sweden should be a country where everyone can contribute and work 100 percent of their ability. Ultimately, it is a question of taking advantage of the innate momentum of all people. Asylum seekers today usually encounter a long period of inaction with neither regular language teaching nor any form of employment during the period of asylum. As an asylum seeker, you are not expected to learn the language directly or contribute what you can. The signal to the new arrivals is that integration is not so important. There's something that can wait. Those who are granted a residence permit have lost time, energy and motivation. Their ability to establish themselves on the labour market and in society as a whole has thus deteriorated. We want to introduce requirements for participation in teaching in Swedish and social information with a focus on laws and values from day one, and we believe that there should be a working requirement from day one. This could involve regular work or providing cleaning, cooking or caretaker services at the asylum accommodation where you live. The municipality or non-profit associations should also be able to provide opportunities for asylum seekers to contribute. Madam President, I would like Those who come to our country should simply be offered a quick way into the community. Sweden should be a country where all people do their part, a country where more people get a chance to contribute and where hard work should pay off. It's about affirming people's dreams and ambitions. This is how Sweden can become a country where dreams become reality. More flexible solutions are needed to better match skills with job vacancies. Our proposals for a more flexible SFI and more places for professional adults are crucial for integration, although they are dealt with in another report by another committee. Our proposal on admission is an example of a reform that increases the conditions for more jobs to be created and could increase employment among newcomers in particular. As I have already mentioned, well-functioning integration requires certain social and valuation obligations. Jobs and languages are crucial, but it must also be made clear how our society works and what values it builds strongly. It is clear that we have not managed the balance between tolerance and clarity. The segregation in Sweden means that there is a large group of people who do not support themselves and who have relatively little contact with Swedish society at all. There are preschools where there is so little Swedish spoken that the children risk not being able to pass the school. There are children in our country who live in areas where insecurity and serious crime are part of everyday life. In the book The Little Land Who Could Want Ganman Get Us to Start an honest and open debate about the Jens cause of the failed integration. They describe the soft library of low detections, which they translated into a low-expectation racism, an approach that is that one cannot or should expect as much from, for example, a minority. They believe that it is the racism of low expectations that makes us choose to explain, and to some extent excuse, for example, the culture of honor or that young restless men in the suburbs end up in drug trafficking or throwing stones at blue light personnel. The racism of low expectations tells us a great deal about how we have ended up here. It also says a great deal about the solutions that should be found. Madam President, I would like I would also like to highlight in this debate the importance of civil society for integration. It is often in voluntary associations that the values needed for a functioning society are acquired. This is where meetings arise, knowledge is transferred and the alien becomes familiar. That role cannot and will not be taken over by the state. On the other hand, we want to see a policy that both protects and encourages civil society and where the public, with close follow-up, provides support for the work that takes place on the basis of equal value and democratic principles. To conclude, I naturally support all the Christian Democratic reservations, but in this report I am only in favour of reservation 16 under paragraph 6, which concerns precisely the importance of civil society for effective integration.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-586	Madam President, I would like In 1998 I became responsible for an integration project aimed at women in a million programme area in Norrköping. I worked there for eight years, and it came to be by far the most instructive time of my life. I met amazing women from all corners of the world and read their life stories. They taught me to appreciate Sweden. They made me understand how privileged I am to have grown up in one of the world's most equal countries. And they made me feel enormous respect for previous generations, who fought so hard for the life and welfare society that I took for granted. But they also made me see and realize that these rights, which were self-evident to me, had never been an obvious part of their lives, either in their countries of origin or in Sweden. They put their finger on the different conditions under which we lived. I was talking about shared parental insurance, and many of the women hadn't even been able to choose who they were going to be a parent with. I was talking about a difficult divorce because many of the women were a divorce completely unthinkable. I talked about fighting for equal pay for equal work, but many of the women had never had the opportunity to work. I told them about infatuation, and they told me about coercion. I was talking about freedom, and they described freedom. At the same time, they had an amazing ability to express curiosity and desire to learn new things. They dreamed of mastering the Swedish language. For some, the desire was to learn to read and write, to talk about equality and equality, and to learn about legislation. But above all, it was about picking up dreams that were too many times encapsulated into disillusionment that their fate was predestined and that the future could not be influenced. But there were also angry women, who have come to Sweden and applied for a job but have not even received answers to their applications, despite high competence. There were women who fought for democracy and women's rights in countries where they risked their lives in that struggle and women who were not limited by their loved ones but by the structures governing their countries of origin. There were women who dreamed of walking around freely in open, equal Sweden but who were now limited by self-proclaimed moral policemen who saw their life choices as a huge threat to the world view of moral police. However, there was one factor that united all these women: the betrayal on the part of the majority society – the feeling of being unseen and that nobody cared about their lives in the parallel society that grew up in Sweden because politicians let it happen. This is an expression of a totally failed integration policy – a policy that has rather been based on our being created by taking care of them. It is an unsolided and offensive image and a total invisibility of their capacity and their right to become part of the building of society of previous generations started in Sweden. It is about their right to have the opportunity to become equal, independent women with the right to shape and influence their lives and own their sexuality. We want to take care of them, but we don't want to be too close. We take into account, but it's really about us not caring. They received grants, but they wanted nothing more than to contribute. Integration in Sweden has had three faces. The first is the passive face – a fear of touch when it comes to talking about the most important thing. We have informed about the state and the market but turned a blind eye to what concerns relationships within a family and laws that regulate what you should have access to and what you should be protected from and define rights and obligations. We dare to talk about breaking twigs in nature but not about breaking your child's arm or your wife's forbidden. I understand that politicians may be afraid to play into the hands of xenophobic forces by speaking clearly on these issues, but I promise that it will be possible. The fight against xenophobia must be taken as clearly as possible, but these issues must never be opposed to each other. We will be able to do both. The other is the neutral face. We have not managed to keep apart that you as an individual should of course have the right to your culture, traditions and religion but that it is just as obvious to take a stand against any act that restricts someone else's freedom or violates the law. That act can never be defended with either culture, tradition or religion. In Sweden, we solve parents' demands for segregated teaching with adaptation to their norm system. In Sweden, we push for gender-conscious preschools to work against traditional gender roles, while four-year-olds are forced to wear a veil. In Sweden, we take a stand for children's, women's and LGBTQ people's rights as long as no one is against these rights. But when we face opposition, instead of standing up for the principle of the equal value of all men, we falter and adapt. The damnation is the third face. We completely reject Fadimes's father when he honors Fadime but does not see that the first two faces of politics contribute to this happening. I am pleased that the government is today saying that it wants to implement important reforms against all forms of honour-related violence and repression. However, if the government really is serious about its position, it is not just about the necessary efforts in this area. The most important task a government has ahead of it is to make a broad review of all the efforts and contributions that go to activities, associations and assemblies that support the repression of children, women, LGBT people, atheists and religious dissidents. The contributions that are invested in associations that actively take the fight against honour violence and oppression and do a fantastic job – such as Gapf, Tris and Linnamottagningen – are coffee money in relation to the confetti rain of funds going to associations and parishes that instead counteract the fundamental rights of the individual in the liberal and open society. Take, for example, the Delegation against segregation. If you search for honor-related violence and oppression on their website, you will get zero hits. What is the Authority's position on the principle of LGBT people's rights in relation to the parishes receiving tax-funded grant support? When will the Folkbildningsrådet, which pays out huge amounts of tax-funded funds to peoples' education, become an authority so that there is an open and transparent account of what our tax funds are used for? It is also about the work and position of our authorities in Sweden, whether at municipal, regional or national level. The role of managers determines the support the employees receive when making difficult and many times life decisions. We Liberals are clear about the important role of civil society, as well as that of public education. But we are equally clear that a crown should not go to businesses, associations or parishes that do not stand up for the individual's right to shape and influence his or her life, own his or her sexuality, decide for yourself who he or she wants to live with, equality, equality and that all work should be permeated by a clear perspective on children's rights. I think this is the least we can ask for when we politicians distribute tax revenue in one of the world's most equal countries with a government that proudly describes it as the first feminist government. And for the sake of credibility, leading politicians in the Social Democrats probably need to think about the imagery when ministers put on the veil in Iran. 1998 was 20 years ago. It is with sadness that I note that parallel societies have increased. When Tris in Uppsala recently reported on his important mapping of honor-related violence and oppression among young people, it emerged that 66 percent of the girls who had two parents born outside the Nordic region were expected to be virgin when they married. One thing is certain: To solve these terrible injustices that have arisen in the wake of political incapacity requires force. We cannot choose to remain paralysed but instead have to take in what the victims tell and describe. I would like to conclude my speech with two quotes from young people who have participated in the survey. They show the daily oppression with which they live: I'm not allowed to hang out with Swedish girls. I'm in sports on the sly. My friend washes my gym clothes. I don't know how long I can last. ..................................................... The questions are about my life. No one will believe me if I tell them. It's not just girls who have to marry cousins. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like We Liberals are behind all our reservations – I do not really know how many of them there are – but I am in favour of the reservation under paragraph 17 of the report.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-612	Madam President, I would like Many people from war - stricken countries have long sought refuge in our country. Sweden has taken a great responsibility for people on the run to be able to get a sanctuary and start their lives again. In terms of population, but also in actual terms, Sweden was the country in Europe that took the greatest responsibility during the 2015 refugee crisis. During the last parliamentary term, the Social Democratic-led government pursued an active labour market policy. It aims to get more people into work, not least those born in another country. We saw that, although we and governments have seen the challenge before us, we have not done enough. We are serious that everyone who can work should work, and then the possibilities to equip themselves for jobs need to be great and the demands of society need to be clear. We have begun this work and want to continue to further improve integration and speed up the establishment of new arrivals during the mandate. It's good, not just for you as an individual, when you get a job. You can support yourself and be free to shape your own life. It is also crucial for us to be able to solve the skills supply. Many employers, both public and private, cry out for competent employees. That is why we need to ensure that people who are currently out of work – the majority of them have refugee backgrounds – are educated and can become the great asset in our society that I and many here want them to be. But we also need to create other pathways to work and participation. During the last parliamentary term, a great deal of important reforms were carried out to improve establishment and shorten time to work and self-sufficiency. Among other things, fast track development developed to shortage occupations together with the social partners, as well as additional welfare services for newly arrived and long-term unemployed. These are extremely important efforts to harness the power and knowledge that people carry and to secure the supply of skills. We have introduced training requirements for new arrivals and the obligation to participate in the establishment. New arrivals, like all other jobseekers, now receive an individual action plan and are assigned to the action that is deemed to lead to studies or work. Local job tracks have been developed in collaboration between the municipality, the local business community and Arbetsförmedlingen. It is now one of the most effective measures to get people who are far removed from the labour market to actually get into work. Over 64 per cent of those who have had a job track have some form of employment. The Housing Act was also implemented during the last parliamentary term. This means that new arrivals are spread throughout the country and that the municipalities with the strongest conditions are allowed to take greater responsibility. The previous scheme was unsustainable. Refugee reception is a joint responsibility and cannot be placed on a few municipalities, just as few countries cannot take full responsibility. We have combined subsidised employment into introductory jobs, which are easier for employers to use and get more people who are far from the labour market at work. These jobs are often crucial for those outside the labour market to take a foothold. Madam President, I would like New arrivals are moving faster and faster to get to work. In 2007 it took eight years for half of the refugees to have jobs. Now half of them are in work after five years. More are at work 90 days after completion of the establishment plan. Both the share of the population and the share of the labour force have increased in all groups. The group that accounts for the absolute highest increase in labour force participation is women born abroad. Many of those who have come to Sweden in recent years come from contexts where it is not at all as obvious as we do that women and men should participate in the labour market on equal terms. Gender equality and women's opportunities and rights are an extremely important aspect of the great job to be done with integration and establishment. 中 Both women and men from society must meet the same expectations and be given the conditions to support themselves. 中 A clear gender perspective is needed in all start-up actions. These are two important quotations from the January Agreement. In the January agreement, we Social Democrats, together with the Center Party, Liberals and the Green Party, have agreed on further reforms for faster establishment in the Swedish labour market. Many of the proposals for faster and better integration contained in the report are also contained in our agreement. We want compulsory community introduction and teaching in Swedish from day one. We want more and improved social orientation and a quality lift for SFI. We want opportunities to combine work, language learning and education to be further strengthened. But we also want to introduce increased demands for more people to participate in language studies. We also agree to replace self-residence for asylum seekers, EBO, with socially sustainable own housing, where municipalities are given the opportunity to limit their own housing for asylum seekers in certain areas in order to reduce segregation. The proposals of the Parties on job creation for newcomers and long-term unemployed are to be introduced. It will provide employment for newcomers and the long-term unemployed and will enable them to acquire the skills and experience needed in the labour market. These contracts shall also be capable of leading to a permanent contract of employment. Madam President, I would like Most people who come to Sweden want to work, support themselves and be part of society. A few weeks ago I visited Sommenbygden folk high school in Tranås, where, as in many other folk high schools, they make a big contribution and organise start-up courses and study-motivating courses for new arrivals. The participants in the course talked frustratedly about the fact that the way to work and participation is far too long and that society and the Swedes are not available. The experience of racism and cultural clashes was also alive among those I talked to. When I told you that we want to reset the reception and create faster and more efficient processes and introduce social information and language teaching from day one, it was as if I were responding exactly to what they were asking for. We Social Democrats want to build a society that holds together, where everyone gets a place and contributes and where people are free and feel confident in the future. Successful integration is one of the cornerstones of this construction. That is why we need to continue to reduce time to work with better and flexible efforts and constantly rethink them, so that we find the best ways to work for different people from different backgrounds. We need to continue to focus on gender equality and work with targeted efforts so that more women can support themselves more quickly and become part of our society. We want to do this in order to create a stronger society and a better welfare, but also in order for children to see that it is possible and dare to dream and plan for their future. Together with investments in schools and more housing, jobs and self-sufficiency are the most important things we can invest in to counteract segregation. Those who come to Sweden and who stay will be given the opportunity to learn the language and see how our society works as quickly as possible. People must be given the opportunity to support themselves and understand and participate in society. That job is best done when all parts of society work together. With that, Madam President, I would like to call for the reservations to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved in the report.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-635	Madam President, I would like The S-MP government has laid the foundations for a well-functioning establishment in the past term of office. The statistics show that the number of new arrivals leaving the start-up phase for either work or studies has increased to 42 per cent. Previously, it took about ten years for a newcomer to enter the labour market. Now almost half of the new arrivals are established in five years. What does this mean for the individual? Getting a job and a context with colleagues and routines is important for self-esteem and creates a sense of belonging. Madam President, I would like The S-MP government has made a number of successful efforts for new arrivals and long-term unemployed. Our combined actions have meant a significant change and a great profit both for the individual and for society. Much has been done, but much more is needed before we can say that integration works well. Despite the efforts of the S-MP government in the area of integration, there is a group that is particularly far removed from the labour market – low-skilled foreign-born women. Although improvements have been made in recent years and developments are moving in the right direction, these women are still too far removed from the labour market. If foreign-born women were to work to the same extent as women born in Sweden, that would mean 134 000 new jobs. The fact that the mother in the family goes to a job also has many positive effects in addition to the increase in the family's income. The position of the woman is strengthened, and she has more opportunities to influence and be a good role model for the children. Gender equality for all, regardless of background, promotes growth and gives economic empowerment. It is therefore central to the Green Party that all establishment measures have a clear gender perspective. We have also secured this in the January agreement. Being a woman without upper secondary or tertiary education should not be an obstacle to becoming part of the Swedish labour market. Madam President, I would like With the January agreement as the basis for the government's continued work, we will intensify the establishment process. One proposal is the year of integration. The aim of the year of integration is to quickly catch up with those who think that the process of establishment is going too slow. Through extensive Swedish education and intensive practice, particularly motivated people will be given tools to get into the labour market faster, especially in shortage jobs. It should be easy to integrate. Madam President, I would like Integration in Sweden should be the best in the world. It aims to increase equality and safeguard equality. Every citizen who can and wants to be able to work – it should be as obvious as it sounds. We want to give people the right tools for an independent life so that they can realize their dreams. Everyone benefits from better integration. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject any reservations.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-643	Madam President, I would like Leila Ali-Elmi mentioned the results of the establishment programme. Some 42 percent of those who have attended the program have since received a job or an education. All numbers are included here. This is therefore true of the figures for subsidised employment, i.e. different types of employment where the state has gone in with most of the cost. You can look at those who have actually got a job that is not subsidised, a real job, as you usually call it. This is about 10%, or it is usually around 5%. Madam President, I would like My question to Mrs Leila is: is this still the case when the figures are presented in this way? It is not about 42% going into any work, but it is perhaps about 5-10%. My second question, Madam President, concerns the fact that many of the subsidised jobs are targeted at specific groups, as Mrs Leila mentions. They can be targeted, for example, at new arrivals and others. Many argue that the special efforts lead to displacement effects. If you direct an initiative to a certain group, such as new arrivals, it may be people born in Sweden who are pushed away and who do not get the job they would otherwise get. How does the Green Party view it? Is it okay with this kind of displacement effect, i.e. that you give a job to a new arrival, for example, because the person is new arrivals at the expense of someone else who might not be new arrivals and who otherwise would not get the job?
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-647	Madam President, I would like The difference between the Swedish Democrats and the Green Party is that you are putting a group against a group and that we want to keep the people together. Yes, integration requires effort. It requires an investment. This requires that we invest in integration. You have no integration policy, so I ask you: what is the solution to what you describe?
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-648	Madam President, I would like I note that I am not really getting answers to my questions. I also put the question to the Director-General of the Employment Service: how is it that there are such low figures for those who actually end up in work? His answer was: when it comes to asylum seekers, you cannot get higher figures. There is no country in the world that succeeds better. He said that it does not really matter what action we take. When it comes to asylum seekers, we will not be over 5.6.7 % in real jobs after two years. That's where we're gonna end up. That is why I ask how it is viewed by the Green Party. Do you agree with what the Public Employment Service says, that it cannot be done? It's about educational background. It's about cultural issues and so on. There's no way to make it any better. My question is: how does the Green Party view this? Then there was my second question. If you target a particular group and say, for example, that new arrivals will now receive a type of subsidised employment, another group, such as those who are not new arrivals, may be without a job. One creates, as it were, unemployment in another group. I am accused of pitting a group against a group, Madam President, but my point is that I think that such efforts should be general. I do not think that one should target a particular group and say: Now this group should get something a little extra. I believe that in the long run it leads to more division and segregation. I think it leads to a perceived injustice. One then wonders in the group that did not get the bet: How come they should go ahead of me in the queue? I think it is much better to try to have general bets. That is why I am trying to find out how the Green Party sees this: do you agree with it, or do you think that it is perfectly okay for newcomers, for example, to get ahead of a job, in this case? It can also apply to the housing queue and other contexts.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-653	Madam President, I would like The labour market is not static. The employment of people coming from outside Europe does not mean that jobs are being lost from other people. Integration, as I have said before, requires us to invest and invest in it. You want to set groups against each other. My question to you is: what do you want to do about the integration problems that you paint? What are your solutions?
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-655	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by saying that I am in favour of reservation 15. I am of course also in favour of reservation 4. But I take this opportunity, like my colleague, Alireza Akhondi, to give a small background to our positions expressed in our specific opinions. I shall also take this opportunity to say: once again, on the previous speeches, we notice what enormous pessimism there is on this issue. In many ways it is quite unjustified pessimism. One should not be overly optimistic, but when, with the support of Arbetsförmedlingen's defaitistic and stated claims, it is impossible to get newly arrived refugees into employment, it speaks against all rhymes and reason, because many other countries that have a better functioning labour market succeed in doing so. Having said that, I would also like to make another point in this debate: the January agreement with its reforms will not solve all the problems. We will have to do much more. But in that agreement, in addition to all the major labour market reforms that we have discussed in the previous debates today, we are still experiencing a major reform that many have mentioned before to speed up establishment. Over the years I have met many of the new arrivals who have struggled very hard to come to Sweden and who are reasonably loaded with energy, hope and a huge desire to succeed in the new country, and many have also succeeded. But in practice they are faced with an enormous amount of waiting and passivity, which ultimately leads to frustration. Only a small part of the week is devoted to what we call integration – all that we so solemnly discuss in this House. This must be completely redoed, with a completely different intensity, by means of an intensive year. The idea is that you get into society directly with some kind of basic idea of working hard, taking long days, studying Swedish during evenings and weekends and having practice all day. You have to work hard, but in return, the programmes and establishment that society comes with are of the right quality, and Swedish is not inferior. Speaking of what I said earlier, it's sad how few people get into work from these programs today. Yes, only a few percent come in today. Yes, only a minority even enter subsidised jobs, and if it has improved, it is above all through extremely subsidised jobs. It's definitely not good today. Yes, it is sad when it comes to Swedish. That's also to be said. Swedish education today does not even lead to half of those who go SFI actually learning Swedish, according to the evaluations and statistics available. So today it is not working. Not only are you charged with energy, but what you are met with is of completely inferior quality. So we must move from this point of view to coming as new arrivals to the new country and working very hard with full energy to fight our way in. It's about many hours and a lot of effort. But this is to be met by real, serious efforts at internships that work for everyone and not only for a few – there are things that work well today too – and a Swedish teaching that is extremely much more effective than today. That is why we also want, and we are very grateful that it is included in the agreement, that the compensation for Swedish immigrants should be turned into a result-based money so that you get paid if people actually make progress, no matter what level you start from. Of course, it should not be the same for all levels, but you start at a certain level. If you make great progress, the training will receive feedback in the form of more funds, while those who do not do so will not. With this intensive year, as we have called it, it is intended that all the prolonged waiting and frustration should be exchanged for something intense. I am very grateful that this idea has now found acceptance by many other parties and many others here in the speaker's chair in various forms. But that in itself will not be enough. We will have to do much more to make it work much better than today. We will have to lift the exclusion areas, we will have to lift people and take many other different measures. We will have to press ahead with liberal reforms in order for integration to work, far beyond what the January agreement contains. Reservation 15, which I supported, is about civil society. Another thing we see in the evaluations is that every invested crown, although there is great variation in how well it works, which we put into civil society in associations, sports associations and coffee ropes where socialization is so much more effective than public bureaucracy. We therefore need to constantly expand the opportunities for those who can and can work with these issues in civil society so that they have the chance to organise and expand it. As it says in the reservation, it is often a question of their exclusion from procurement and that procurement cannot in practice be directed to civil society as much as it should be. After all, it is civil society that needs to respond to the issues and that also succeeds as well as they do. This is an example of how we sometimes need to go beyond the January agreement on other issues. Once again, I would like to have said that integration can be successful. Immigration is a success. Several of the largest nations and economies that the world has created have been built up by people who have come there, poor with empty hands and sometimes without education. If we in this House simply continue to assume that it cannot only succeed, but must be stopped and countered, then we cannot succeed. You have to want to succeed in order to succeed.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-668	Madam President, I would like I'd like to start with two quotes. Everyone gets an internship, never a job. We're tired of it. Having a job is having a life without stress. That's what Mariama says. Now we can finally buy things for our children, we couldn't before. All women should stop being at home, everyone should go to work, says Gülüzar. Mariama and Gülüzar are two of the eight long-term unemployed women in Fittja who were employed by the municipal housing company Botkyrka building two years ago. I met these women when they were newly employed, and I have gladly followed their journey. Above all, I have seen the joy in their eyes when they said to me: Finally, we will get paid and earn our own money! Madam President, I would like For women, the job means security and financial independence. Mothers with a fixed job and salary provide safer children and, in the long run, a safer area. It means so much to the family. Many of these women have been jumping between internships for years, sitting at home and giving up their belief that they can get a job. Therefore, I am pleased that Botkyrkabyggen's project Qvinna in Botkyrka was brought to the attention of International Women's Day and received the Employment Service's gender equality and diversity prize. Madam President, I would like In a new study, the OECD shows that Sweden has a high employment rate among newly arrived women compared to other similar countries such as Denmark and Germany. After ten years of residence, Sweden is the country with the highest employment rate among newly arrived women. It is gratifying that early language and education efforts pay off. Previous OECD studies show that the faster a newly arrived woman establishes herself on the labour market, the better it will also be for her children born in Sweden, especially for her daughters. Sweden is showing better results in this respect compared to other countries in Europe. This is so important. Children who grow up and live in financial vulnerability are less involved in society, tend to have lower grades in school, live more often in unsafe housing conditions and lack a sense of being able to realize their dreams. Children who grow up in poverty have worse chances of living than their classmates and workmates. Therefore, inequality and poverty are deeply harmful to individuals and society. Frustration and despair are awakened among those who lag behind – frustration and despair that risk paving the way for both crime and extremism. Therefore, the work against poverty and segregation is important and requires early and long-term efforts and collaboration between the state, the municipality, civil society and the business community. Botkyrkabyggens project, which I mentioned, is a positive example of when collaboration works. Madam President, I would like I mention Botkyrkabyggen's project because the local actors are central to the work towards segregation. Many municipalities, like my municipality of residence Botkyrka, are already actively and strategically working towards segregation and greater equality. It is mainly about various social and labour market measures that help to lift people through jobs and education. That is why it was so welcome when the government announced a reform programme to reduce segregation and lift up poor areas. For this work, the government intended to set aside SEK 2.2 billion annually for the period 2020 – 2027. Botkyrka, my municipality of residence, is one of the 32 municipalities that would receive money from the government to reduce segregation over a ten-year period. This was the largest targeted initiative that would strengthen the municipalities' long-term efforts to combat segregation. Unfortunately, however, M, KD and SD removed that investment in the budget voted through in the Swedish Parliament in December – without any thorough impact assessments. It was more important to lower the tax than to combat segregation and poverty. It's irresponsible. Segregation is not a budget line. It is about people's opportunities to participate in society and to build their lives. It is a question of children and their future, where criminal forces, like predators, are waiting for the right time to bring the children with them. Madam President, I would like We need to give hope and confidence in the future to all young people who are growing up in poverty, to those who are outside the labour market and to those who are excluded from housing and education because of narrow-mindedness. We must combat segregation seriously. Then Sweden cannot be controlled with the help of a napkin sketch. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about SD's integration policy and gender equality policy. The report, which has also been mentioned earlier, contains two proposals from the Swedish Democrats. One proposal is about social orientation. The second proposal concerns the abolition of the residence law, that is to say that we should not accept people who come to Sweden with solidarity, but that there should continue to be a few municipalities taking that responsibility. SD beats its chest on issues of honour violence. You could almost think that SD is fighting for women's freedom or for an equal society. But it's not credible. SD representatives pay tribute to Poland, a country that has gone from free abortion rights to presenting a bill on almost total abortion bans. It is not credible when SD wants to restrict the right to abortion and introduce freedom of conscience for health professionals who refuse to perform abortions. SD wants to remove the paternity months in parental insurance, want to abolish gender education in preschool and introduce co-taxation – a women's trap that was removed in 1971. All these proposals threaten Swedish equality. SD beats its chest in the speaker's chair and shows that you care about all girls who are subjected to honorary violence. SD has voted against any reform that can improve the life situation of LGBTQ people in the Riksdag. The list is long on homophobic and transphobic statements among SD representatives. SD for a conservative family policy that would make everyday life difficult for all families that are not traditional core families. Last but not least, the SD wants to reintroduce and extend the custody allowance, which is a female trap. SD also emphasises that women and men have different roles in child rearing. Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a country that stands up for women, for gender equality and for the right to abortion here in Sweden and around the world. We Social Democrats will never compromise the right of women to decide over their own bodies, whether it is Sharia policemen or SD who are threatening this right. It is a struggle that we Social Democrats will take every day.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-690	Madam President, I would like It was strong feelings, but unfortunately that was not entirely true. Much of what was said was, of course, direct lies. Moreover, it was to some extent hypocritical. I am thinking, for example, of SD being in the same group in the European Parliament as a Polish party. It is then said that it would be problematic from the point of view of women because there are other rules for abortion in Poland. But the Social Democrats also belong to a group in the European Parliament where there are parties from all sorts of countries who have a completely different view of abortion and other issues. That attack is really ridiculous. Let me move on to that trail. Then one can discuss how Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has called Fatah in Palestine a sister party to the Social Democracy. One might wonder how Fatah views abortion and the issue of equality between women and men. What is the situation in Palestine? That question can be put to the Social Democrats, if we are now going to work with that kind of guilt village association. In my speech, I raised this issue in part. I spoke a lot of honour violence. This is something that the S ocial democrats have historically had difficulty talking about. They have wanted to balance a little bit between Islamic forces and feminist forces. For the record today, we could ask whether the Social Democrats can make the demands I made, namely that if you come to Sweden you should take the custom where you come from. We must accept our values of equal rights for women and men. One should not come here and impose honorary cultures and other types of cultural degeneratives. Can social democrats think of making such demands and saying that if you do not agree that women and men are equally worth, you may not be allowed to move to Sweden but try to find another country to move to. Can the S ocial democrats do that?
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-694	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Henrik Vinge! What I have mentioned is more or less cut and glued from SD's movements that have been awakened in the Swedish Parliament. These are statements made by your representatives. That is the policy that your party and your representatives have communicated during election movements in the streets and squares. It would be interesting to know which of the proposals I have mentioned are not true. I did not mention that the SD belongs to a group in the European Parliament, but I mentioned that your representatives pay tribute to the developments that are taking place in Poland, Hungary and many other parts of Europe. Social democracy is a peace movement. We will never accept that people's freedom is restricted, no matter where they come from. We Social Democrats will always stand on the barricades and always be a wall whether it is Sharia policemen or other types of oppressors who limit women's opportunities to be free individuals. I can promise you that!
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-700	Madam President, I would like There are strong words here! We all know here that the Social Democracy has had major problems with the issue of honour violence. We know that there have been conflicts not least in your association in Gothenburg, where people have even left the association because the conflict has been difficult. The Social Democracy has not really raised the issue of honour violence because it has been afraid to talk about it, has been afraid of encountering Islamist forces and other forces that think it favours xenophobia. There have been concerns about talking about honour violence, and this has contributed to the problem. The attitude of the Social Democrats on this issue has been a betrayal of many women who have been subjected to violence of honour, and this is because the problem has not been addressed in time. We are all aware of that, no matter how it sounds now from Serkan Köse. Madam President, I would like Let us talk about what was a direct lie in Mr Serkan's speech, such as the issue of co-taxation. The truth is that it is an individual Member who has at some point exercised on voluntary co-taxation, that is, the family who wants to be able to choose to be taxed as a family in the way that happens in the vast majority of European countries, but the family who prefers to have individual taxation should be able to choose it. So it's an individual exercise. Serkan Köse is well aware that all parties have individual movements and that they do not necessarily follow the Party's line, so to state it as some kind of Swedish-democratic attitude that we want to force everyone into co-taxation is a direct lie. Madam President, I would like We can also raise the issue of honouring Poland. If it is the case that anyone has paid tribute to Poland at all, I am absolutely convinced that this has not happened because of Poland's abortion legislation. Perhaps it has been hailed that Poland is clear in its positions against Russian armaments, has made a fantastic economic journey, gone from communism to becoming an EU country and so on. There are very good things about Poland, but in terms of abortion legislation we do differ from Poland.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-704	Madam President, I would like An individual Member has tabled an individual motion which has not passed the Party. Does that mean that the Party is not behind that motion? There is also a motion on the custody allowance. I have even written the number on it if Henrik Vinge wants to know. It was submitted from SD 2016/ 17. It is a little strange that an individual motion can pass through the party group and be submitted but is not the policy of the party. I could stand here and tell you about the work that the Social Democratic Government has done on equality, but the hours will not be enough. Part of this work has been about combating violence of honour. The money for women's shelters and the investment in municipalities is part of this. The fact that we Social Democrats and the government have not given priority to this issue is therefore not true. Again, as a social democrat, I will do my utmost to combat all the forces that restrict women's freedom.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-709	Madam President, I would like In this debate on the arts and films, I would like to begin with an overall reflection which applies to all these areas and which is particularly important these days. I really like high-quality art. I admire geniuses. I love people who exceed themselves and others' expectations. So I ask myself: Have I sometimes closed my eyes to the fact that geniuses have not been okay as humans otherwise? Have I been so fond of what they have created that I have closed my eyes and let people behave incredibly badly without saying anything, without reacting? I think there are quite a few of us who should ask us that question today. You shouldn't be allowed to behave anyway just because you're a genius. One should not close one's eyes to the fact that a person behaves badly just because that person creates good art. There won't be fewer brilliant novels, there won't be any worse stage performances and it won't be substandard works of art or bad movies just because you make demands for geniuses to behave like people. Madam President, I would like Some time ago, the metoo calls revealed how sexual abuse was swept under the carpet in the industry by industry and sector by sector. The actors were first out, but calls followed a wide range of social areas. Notable many of the cases that came up have been known for quite some time, but they have not acted. The geniuses have had to go on just because they're geniuses. Perhaps around them they have thought that they cannot afford to say no to them. They're so important to our brand. It's so important that they score. It is so important that our sector wins elections that we have sometimes closed our eyes. At the same time, I think we should ask ourselves what this cost. Who are the ones who have not come forward? Who's been held back? Who are those who have not dared to speak? Who are the ones who haven't seen their ability bloom out? What novels haven't been written? What stage performances have not been shown? Who are the ones who haven't been able to play out their abilities in a movie? Madam President, I would like After the metoo calls, many areas of society have received really good gender equality plans and procedures to counteract further cases. It's good and important. It'll probably help. But something much more difficult is also needed. We need a change of attitude so that we reward another behavior, a kind behavior, instead of turning a blind eye to geniuses who behave badly. I am convinced that we would get much better art, many more good novels and much better stage performances if we let more people come forward and didn't let geniuses sit on others and create fear or quiet culture. There are many good examples to the contrary: good and talented geniuses and knowledgeable people who by being kind also help other people to succeed and together with them create something big and much better. Of course, you can step forward as a genius by trampling on others or sitting on others. But what violence can create is miserable and short. It dies like a storm wind in the desert away. Those who want to nurture Swedish quality culture will in the long term do best to reward kind people and good deeds before supposedly brilliant men who behave cruelly and badly. It concerns the cultural world but not only there. It applies to all of us, everywhere and always. Madam President, I would like On to two other specific points in this report. Access to libraries is a fundamental service in a liberal society. In municipalities and municipalities in many parts of the country, the library is the local cultural centre. It gives us all, on equal terms, the opportunity to take part in culture and books. It can make a massive release impression to go to the library and borrow that book that you've never seen at home because you don't have many books at home. Good libraries are therefore most important for those who grow up in households where there are not so many novels and where you don't read so much together. As there are now more and more problems with mess and trouble in libraries, we see the same situation there. A few are allowed to destroy for many others, and it affects those who need libraries the most. Therefore, access bans are needed for those who misbehave in libraries in order to protect those who really need libraries. Madam President, I would like The film agreement served Swedish film very well for a very long time. There were difficulties in reaching new agreements because the parties to the negotiations felt different things. The role of the state was then to support. I want to see a new film deal. I want to see new contracts and new services. I want to see new people and new interests entering into the agreements. I want to see a modern film agreement instead of the state film policy that became the last government's alternative to the film agreements, because I think it would mean much stronger conditions for Swedish film in the long term. Therefore, we and the other bourgeois parties have repeatedly said that a new investigation into a new film policy is needed. I stand by it even now and therefore call for the approval of reservation 14. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say that whatever of the arts we are discussing and whatever films we are discussing, it is likely that we will get much better art, culture, film and books in this country if we ensure that people who are smart and wise are not held back by other people who may be brilliant but who sit on and destroy for everyone else.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-725	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse our moderate reservations, namely reservation 1 on libraries and reading promotion for children and young people, and reservation 11 on art and architecture in public spaces. Madam President, I would like Today we have to debate the Committee on Culture's motion for a resolution on art and film issues, a report which spans many areas of cultural policy. On behalf of the Moderates, I intend to focus in this speech on three subjects: reading and library, art and architecture, and film. Madam President, I would like More people should read more, but that's easier said than done. There are currently too many differences between different socio-economic groups in society. Some people read often, much and varied, while others never take in text other than the one that flutters by in the Facebook or Instagram flow. This is problematic in both the short and long term. For reading gives knowledge, and knowledge gives power – power over one's own life and one's own future. Therefore, reading and reading comprehension are basically about man's freedom and the equalization of life chances. Reading is the basis for a child's linguistic and intellectual development. Therefore, the promotion of reading needs to be strengthened. Good reading ability is the key to successful schooling and understanding of other subjects, and through literature children are given the opportunity to discover and explore worlds other than their own. Madam President, I would like No child chooses his or her parents. No child chooses whether the bookshelves at home are filled with books or whether they are used for ornamental storage. We Moderates want to invest in the library's work to reach children who come from vulnerable environments or from homes where there may not be much reading experience. One way to do this is to strengthen cooperation between municipal libraries and schools. The willingness of Swedish students to read must increase! As far as the Swedish libraries are concerned, I would like to draw attention to the very good reasoning of Christer Nylander and Liberals on how the library should be a safe and quiet place to stay. Stoken and threats can never be tolerated, and here the public has a responsibility to create order and order. It is enough to take the libraries in my own municipality of residence Söderhamn and in many other Gävleborg municipalities as an example: Abuse often penetrates the entrances and the rest of the premises. Trouble and trouble are, unfortunately, too much of everyday life. You should never have to feel uncomfortable and insecure when visiting one of society's most important institutions. Many municipalities struggle to solve the problems, but more needs to be done. Libraries should have room for conversation, source-critical exercises, lectures and discussion, but above all libraries should provide room for silence and reflection. Madam President, I would like Culture permeates society in different ways, and it also manifests itself through architecture and art in new homes as well as public spaces. Sweden is growing rapidly and Boverket estimates that 600 000 new homes need to be built by 2025. This also means the creation of new public spaces. In order to safeguard art and architecture in the public space, we should look both backwards and forwards. The demolitions that took place in the middle of the second half of the 20th century – and then the emergence of the so-called million-programmes – resulted in important standard increases in the form of, for example, running water and reduced overcrowding for many people in our country. At the same time, the experience of this time has shown that satisfaction and security are more than that. The ripple wave made irreversible and fulsome impressions in many Swedish cities, and many of the interventions seem to be difficult to understand. We should learn from this. The balance between new and old, between conservation and innovation, is rarely simple. The state can play an important role in creating the conditions for architects, artists and other creative groups to collaborate when new residential areas emerge and when it comes to such collaboration taking place early in the process. The state can also set an example when designing public spaces by clearly linking construction, architecture and artistry. Madam President, I would like Like other arts, the film can touch, change and entertain. In its best moments, the film raises important existential questions and helps to broaden people's views. It is often said that film is the best at cinema, and the cinema is one of the most important cultural institutions in many areas. At home in Gävleborg County there are many smaller but well appreciated cinemas: Trönö Bio in Söderhamn Municipality, Red Kvarn in Bollnäs and Rio Bio in Ockelbo are just a few examples. The cinema acts as a vital node in society and should be protected by the public, not excluded. Unfortunately, this was precisely what the public did when the red-green tax increase on the biomems hit the river in 2017 – from 6 percent to 25 percent. This has worsened the conditions, especially for the smaller, VAT-obliged cinemas around the country. Either you have had to raise ticket prices or the margins have deteriorated considerably in an already strained business. The closure threats are constantly present. We Moderates believe that the increase in bio-VAT is harmful and that the rate of VAT should return to 6%. Bioculture in Sweden will develop, not be phased out. Madam President, I would like Film is an important art species but also a creative industry that creates many jobs. Swedish film and Swedish actors are strong brands that contribute to a positive image of Sweden. Swedish film has a world reputation with many praised directors, actors, make-up artists, photographers and producers. This is not least important for a small and export-dependent country like ours. We Moderates want to see a new and wide-ranging film investigation in which the parties and organisations of Filmsverige, as well as the parties of the Riksdag, are involved. The Riksdag has also announced this to the Government already in June 2016. The prudence and incompetence of the Red-Green Government is striking, but now it is time for this parliamentary decision to be implemented. The government is accountable to the Riksdag, not the other way around. Madam President, I would like The state and the public should be enabling for cultural creation and participation but not take over and control its content. We will safeguard our history and ensure that everyone has the opportunity to take part in it but also to be part of the contemporary debate and our future. Politics should stay an arm's length away from the content of culture in order to avoid getting your fingers in the jam jar. This is also the moderate basic idea – people should be allowed to decide their own lives and the culture they want them to contain.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-748	Madam President, I would like Today, when we debate the Culture Committee's report 13 – by the way, a comprehensive report that deals with everything from language issues and libraries to performing arts and conditions for Swedish film and for international film in Sweden – one thing is as clear as the blizzard that sprouts out on the slopes this time of year: the Swedish Democrats are the party that has commitment and dares to have ambitions. Just as withering as the last snow are opinions and new proposals and approaches from most parties to meet current needs and questions in this part of our preparation area. On the whole, you're happy. As a social conservative, I could interpret this somewhat benevolently as a sign that demands for change are lacking, that the scope for high-flying reform ideas is limited and that very cautious progress is maintained. Unfortunately, I rather believe that it is a lack of functioning political architecture and an obsolete toolbox to meet the care, maintenance and assembly of a need-tested reform agenda. The report deals with a large number of requests from the Swedish Democrats. I understand the absurdity of speaking about everyone and opting, above all, for the question of language and for the unique role and purpose of libraries as the beacon of education in a sometimes somewhat stormy time. The conditions for Swedish film and cinema will be touched upon by my colleague Jonas Andersson at a later stage. The situation of the Swedish language – our by far the most important identity bearer and to some extent a cultural marker – is of long-term concern. We have observed for decades an accelerating rush of anglicisms in public space as well as in education. This applies not least to higher academic education, where English today has a crushing dominance. At the same time, we note among younger generations an increasingly shrinking vocabulary and a shrinking use of Swedish language variation and synonym melodi. In combination with this development, the understanding and knowledge of the Nordic language melody has declined radically in a comparison between today's middle-aged adults and young schoolchildren. Globalization and social media present globally small linguistic areas and their long-term survival with completely new challenges. Social action is needed here. At the same time, through extensive immigration, we have a considerable proportion of the population that communicates throughout communities, schools and families in languages other than Swedish, which hampers both the possibility of successful schooling and higher education for children and the employability of their parents. Consensus and cohesion with Swedish society are missing. This has been recognised by more and more people, so also – at least in theory – the Social Democrats and Prime Minister Löfven, with whom I recently discussed this issue. However, the idea of language duty is relatively ineffective without a combination of efforts. It is about recognising, confirming and making visible the position of Swedish as the official main language of our country and not just as a national language. This should not only be the case in Finland but also in our Sweden. It is about introducing language tests in the citizenship process, and it is about concerted efforts for the Nordic languages at an early age, such as initiatives such as the Nordic Region in school and other opportunities to weave this in from an early age. Madam President, I would like The map of language policy leads me unsearched into the temples of literature and silent oasises in the form of the library treasury and literature banks. In this context, I would therefore like to take this opportunity to call for our reservation 2 on safe libraries. Over the past few years, there have been repeated reports of disturbances at libraries around the country, most recently in the line here outside Stockholm. Employees there testify to open drug trafficking among books and their concerns about both the safety of visitors and staff and the working environment of the staff. In other cases, there have been threats and obvious violence against librarians. Of course, the vast majority of libraries work perfectly well and are supported by fantastic librarians and staff across the country. But exceptions or not, we must never surrender to a situation where libraries are no longer perceived as a safe environment for studies, knowledge acquisition, genealogy or whatever. The role of libraries is eliminated by people who do not understand to show reverence for the functioning and environment of libraries and who use the environment for their own purposes. The Swedish Democrats therefore want the government, in collaboration with relevant actors, institutions and organisations, including the Swedish Municipalities and Landsting, to set up a framework and a dialogue on implementing an action plan for how the library environment can be secured from undemocratic forces. The involvement in the municipalities is also evident, and we will take advantage of that. This should be supported and announced to the government, we believe. I have noted that another party this year has the courage to take on this issue, and that honours them. If the trend persists, all parties may be watching this just in time for the next election. Better late than never saying the saying, but I would say: the sooner, the better. The open spaces of libraries belong to few oasises where the well of education is as deep and cool for poor and rich, young and old. It is time we jointly protected this democratic fine room.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-764	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Culture, not least the film, has the ability to raise issues widely in society that few others have the opportunity to do. We have not least heard Christer Nylander do that when he brought up the film about Josefin Nilsson. We have also seen other films that have succeeded in the same thing. Mia Farrow highlighted the issue of prostitution and Fucking Åmål highlighted the issue of youth sexuality and love and life in a small town. This is a culture that the whole of Sweden should be able to take part in. But the reality is that with the policy of the Red-Green Government, fewer and fewer people actually have access to it. That's not good. As in the big city, people in rural areas should have access to the culture that shapes the Swedish debate and the image of what kind of life they can live and what opportunities there are. That is why we want to support our reservation No 17, which is that we want to see a new film agreement, a new funding for the film and a new film investigation. The reason we want that is that the Red Green Government has increased VAT by as much as 23 million in the smallest cinemas, which means that many cinemas in the country actually have to close. While we in the Center Party, together with other parties, have been driving the digitisation of cinemas, so that they can have a future, the government has been pushing for a VAT that makes many have to close. This is not a good development for Sweden and especially for rural areas. 5 per cent of Sweden's cinemas carry as much as 20 per cent of the VAT increase. We can't have that. It has 5% of its turnover and must bear 20% of the increase in VAT. Now we have the situation that while Stockholm has free access to all the state's cultural treasures, rural residents are allowed to live by being valued harder to have access to culture. It's not a good dichotomy. Red-green policy is in a nutshell to punish the countryside and reward the big cities. It is not a policy that we in the Center Party support. The clear focus on the film is precisely because it belongs to the most accessible cultural forms in Sweden, and we want it to remain that way. The increase in VAT in 2007 makes cinema more expensive and reduces the accessibility of culture to the part of the population that already has the worst access to it, namely the people in rural areas. It should also be borne in mind that cinemas in rural areas and smaller towns mean more to culture than they may do in big cities, where the supply is greater at all. The damage if a cinema is closed down in the countryside is immensely greater than if it were to happen in a big city. Unfortunately, this perspective has been lacking in the government's cultural policy. Today is the time to strike a blow to create a cultural infrastructure throughout the country. That is why we are in favour of reservation 17.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-771	Madam President, I would like Architecture, form and design affect all people daily and are basically about quality of life. Therefore, it is not surprising that urban planning and architecture involve people. What is beautiful or not is well debated on the pages of the local newspapers. The objective of the Left Party is the construction of a society that puts people at the centre. All citizens should be able to live and live inclusive in well-designed and long-term sustainable environments. These must have prominent aesthetic and artistic values and durable materials, for it increases well-being and thus people's quality of life. The living environment, and in particular housing, has a fundamental impact on human health and well-being. A sense of belonging and pride in the common environment also helps to build a society that stays together. This requires careful and long-term planning of cities and entire communities, both in terms of the larger whole and in terms of the details where high quality is required. In every single building and in every place you should ensure that it is well designed. Today's new buildings say a lot about our time and are also tomorrow's cultural heritage. Madam President, I would like In recent years, the focus of housing policy has been to get as many homes as possible as quickly as possible. It is no wonder, given how neglected housing policy has been from the state in recent decades. But we're not just gonna build houses. We will create communities with places that become people's homes and environments where generations should be able to live a good life. We should not have to choose between cheap, fast and one-off on the one hand and expensive but with high artistic and architectural quality on the other. The Left Party wants to open up more research into what future construction should look like and wants to find ways to stimulate innovation and innovation. We also believe that our proposals for changes in the financing model for construction can support this process. When part of the risk is taken over by the state through, for example, cheap government loans, the policy can steer more towards architectural quality rather than getting stuck in the unilateral shareholder focus of the construction companies. In addition, we are in favour of finding ways to make the architect's role in the construction process much stronger. A few years ago, the Swedish Architects organization described how the costs of a construction project can be distributed: a crown to develop the programme, i.e. the whole development of ideas, ten SEK for the design, 100 SEK for construction and a thousand SEK for the administration. That is the distribution. The conclusion is that by spending a little more money at the start of a project and working with the architect to find long-term solutions, you can create added value in the long term for both the public and property owners. Madam President, I would like In the Gestaltade habitat investigation – a new policy for architecture, form and design, it was suggested that the state should investigate the possibility of building a fund in order to do all that I have described. As a model, the investigation highlighted a Danish example, the realdania fund. Realdania is a Danish utility and business association whose aim is to create quality of life for all by improving the building environment. This means supporting new construction, restorations and district development. It manages a large fund capital that forms the basis for grants that are distributed. The association has supported over 3 300 projects over the past 15 years and has around 150 000 members, in a small country like Denmark. The members are both private and legal persons who can own properties in Denmark, and they also elect the board of the association. The Left Party believes that this is an interesting example to learn from. According to the report, a Swedish counterpart can be created by adding a small part of the profits or turnover in certain government activities each year to the fund. This we think would be interesting. The fund can be managed by a foundation, and funds can be applied for by individuals, companies or public actors such as colleges or municipalities who are planning an exciting new project. Unfortunately, the government chose not to include this proposal in the bill that we decided on here about a year ago. The Left Party therefore chooses to raise this in a motion today. We think it is a good proposal. It can stimulate development and collaboration in architecture, form and design so that we can achieve inclusive, well-designed and long-term sustainable environments. With this, I would like to support our Amendment No 12, and otherwise I support the committee's proposal. Madam President, I would like Since I did not previously have the opportunity to respond to the Swedish Democrats, I would now like to take the opportunity in my speech to raise some objections about some of their motion for a resolution. I have to start by saying that I regret that there are cultural politicians who want to restrict people's access to knowledge based on citizenship. It is an elitist and discriminatory policy put forward in the Swedish Democrats' motion on library issues. In it, Aron Emilsson says that Swedish and Nordic citizens should have special privileges when it comes to our libraries. All people who live here year after year with temporary residence permits are to be excluded from what the Swedish Democrats describe as supporting pillars of the democratic system. It is simply said that they should not be allowed to borrow books. The reason is said to be that foreign citizens do not pay taxes here, but this is true of only a small part of those who reside here without citizenship. And if this was the problem, it is unclear why citizens in the Nordic countries would have another way to our libraries. They would have a greater right to borrow books here than my father, who was a Greek citizen throughout my childhood. Otherwise, the exercise is very much about showing reverence for libraries as an institution and being quiet when you are there. Perhaps the Swedish Democrats believe that foreign citizens are worse at that point, or what is the basis for this? In addition to being elitist, Sweden's democrats' view of culture is highly conservative. The role of libraries as the living room of democracy must mean talks, meetings and new activities. For example, the acclaimed new library in Helsinki lends sewing machines, which are one of the most popular features. At home it is becoming increasingly common for libraries to provide 3D printers to encourage their own creation. They have also started to offer help with digital services for IT-vana. Last week I visited a library and listened to a music ensemble of librarians celebrating Lennart Hellsing's centenary. One of them even conjured. I went there to be amused and rejoice my child, not at all to be filled with awe and knowledge. Is this what is called critically in the Swedish Democrats' motion to use libraries for their own purposes? It is clear to me as a left-wing party that the design and mission of libraries must change over time. It is obvious that it is possible to combine development with peace and quiet for those who want to sit and read with a safe working environment for those who work there. I am also sure that on the day we decide that you need to be a Swedish or Nordic citizen to borrow a book from a public library or a university library, we can no longer claim that libraries are the mainstay of democracy.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-790	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Vasiliki Tsouplaki, for a sound speech. I have to begin by responding to some errors, because I think that everyone who listened to my speech, who sees this and who reads the report, can see that we are pointing out that libraries should be an accessible space in our public environment and in our public society. In my speech, I also pointed out that libraries are an oasis where the arm of rich, young and old can meet in democratic accessibility and in an open public conversation but also in order to be able to genealogize, search for information, study or improve in our literary treasures. I believe that all of us who have spent a lot of time in libraries can agree that sometimes during the course of their studies, in the years at universities or the like, one benefits from the existence of such an oasis in the public environment, which can otherwise be noisy. This is particularly true of young people with a weaker socio-economic background, who may not be able to find peace at home. It may be an environment where it is difficult to concentrate and focus because parents have substance abuse problems, but there may also be other reasons why they do not find studies at home. That is what we are pointing out. The national library strategy points out that libraries have a unique mission to be a public environment where there is a quiet space to pay homage to. When it comes to linking certain services to citizenship, it is in fact completely uncontroversial. It is just to look at the reasoning of several of our neighbouring countries and other countries where you have certain administrative loan services and similar services linked to citizenship, and thus to population records, because some services are more difficult to provide and liability for payments and the like cannot be claimed unless you have a census link. Norway and other countries have some services for this.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-794	Madam President, I would like You don't really respond to my objections, Aron Emilsson, but you want to talk about quiet rooms and so on. We fully agree that there should be quiet rooms in libraries. What I ask myself is why you want to exclude certain residents from borrowing books. You have to be a citizen, you write. The fact that you did not say this in your speech is not the important thing, but it is what the motion says, namely that you want the Riksdag to support investigating the possibilities of linking some of the library's services to citizenship. In the motion, you mention mortgages. Then I want to know: Why is it a problem that people who live in this country but are not Swedish citizens can borrow books? Do you think that there is too much cost when shelves gap empty when it comes to people with temporary residence permits, which you have been involved in carrying out. You are seeking that people should not be able to obtain citizenship, but that they should only have temporary residence permits year after year. This is really really serious, and that's why I'm touching a little bit. I don't usually do it in the speaker's chair, but when I read the motion from the Swedish Democrats I was very upset. I think that Aron Emilsson and the Swedish Democrats must explain what is the problem with people who are not Swedish citizens borrowing books from our libraries.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-797	Madam President, I would like Once again, it is clear from the reading of the motion and the report that we want to examine whether there is a need to link certain services of an administrative nature or loan nature closer to citizenship. There have been and there are ongoing questions, not least in many municipalities where the Library Act is sometimes difficult to manage and interpret in terms of what services should be offered to everyone, for temporary, for tourists, for exchange students, for asylum seekers and for people who do not have a residence permit. Should all services be provided and offered in spite of the fact that population registration data may not be available, that liability cannot be claimed and that it is a public service that is tax-financed? Throughout the basic idea, there is a consensus that there is a link to citizenship and that the services are tax financed by citizens. It's not really any worse than that. With regard to Nordic cooperation, it is in no way exclusive to point out that the Nordic countries should have a deeper and even stronger integrated cooperation between library environments. There are an incredible number of initiatives already today that show that the Nordic countries have enhanced cooperation in library services, in loan services between university libraries, in exchange programmes and, above all, in new innovative solutions for digitising libraries in order to make available and demonstrate the taxes, conversations and knowledge that exist there, that there are more branches and that you can broadcast and stream and so on from there. To point out that Nordic cooperation is particularly deep and particularly strong, I think that we should see as a strength rather than a concern.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-801	Madam President, I would like I think that Aron Emilsson is even digging the pit a little deeper now. It reminds me a little of the debate when you wanted to ban people from having dual citizenship. Then it turned out that we have a lot of Nordic citizens. Shouldn't you be allowed to have a Swedish passport and a Finnish passport at the same time? It became a concern for you. You constantly highlight Nordic cooperation and the Nordic community as something different. The whole of EU cooperation with university exchanges is a very specific area of cooperation. I am therefore very thoughtful. Aron Emilsson has still not described what the problem is. Is this about an address, and is it a population register question? There is no need to talk about citizenship. We have, for example, as Aron Emilsson mentioned, exchange students and researchers at our higher education institutions and universities who are here to actually deepen knowledge and contribute to research development. The fact that you are initiating such a motion at all must have to do with seeing a problem. But I cannot find anything but that you make a distinction between Swedish and Nordic citizens and other citizens when it comes to something as fundamental as book loans. Otherwise, Aron Emilsson describes how nice it is with the libraries and so on. But obviously the same rights should not apply to everyone, and I very much regret that.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-804	Madam President, I would like My grandmother told me they had two options. Either they had to burn the books in the fire or put them in plastic bags and bury them in the basement. Since it is the work of dictators to burn books, it had to be the second option. This year it has been 40 years since the revolution. In Iran, there are probably buried and decomposed books in every basement and every backyard. Yet, despite all the years of censorship, persecution, and imprisonment, poetry, literature, and free speech remain strong. They somehow find their ways. Newly written literature with authoreudonyms spreads beyond Iran's borders, and book circles seem to take place at covert meetings in yoga halls and what is advertised as cooking courses. That's what their reality looks like. In Turkey, the minority language Kurdish has been more or less forbidden since the days of Kemal Atatürk. But just a few subway stations from here, everything is actually perfectly preserved. Anyone can enter the Kurdish library in Alvik and borrow a book in Kurdish or read the works of Kurdish authors and poets in Swedish. The paradox of banning languages or the various forms of expression of freedom of expression has proved, albeit in a limited form, to be an intensified struggle for the opposite. Stories have such a viability in human nature that they live on. If you haven't managed to preserve the books, you remember the stories. In this way, many of the endangered languages and stories have lived on for generations and at a later stage may have been reprinted. Madam President, I would like What ultimately distinguishes authoritarian societies from free societies is the degree of freedom of expression. Cultural policy in our democratic society is therefore based on this very fact. We have a political responsibility to protect freedom of expression and create real conditions for this freedom to be used. Therefore, we need to take careful account of the difference that exists between the subjective experience of a work and the instrumental political limitation. Although Sweden, according to the World Press Freedom Index and the World Freedom of Speech Index, ranks as one of the world's most democratic countries on the basis of liberal criteria of civil and political rights, I am actually concerned about what the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis points to in its latest report. The ambition to achieve a society free of discrimination is claimed to have influenced artistic freedom. The conditions for granting grants for culture may have become politically coloured and thus risked the principle of an arm's length distance. This therefore needs to be further investigated and, if so, corrected, because the principle is fundamental to our freedom of expression and, by extension, to our democracy. Madam President, I would like The ambition of the Social Democrats in the field of culture has been to provide a structure for the development of free and voluntary cultural life since 1974. Consciously, we wanted to organise the cultural area in order to actually organise policy out of the area. However, the trend in cultural policy in the world around us seems to be different. Restrictions on free cultural life are implemented both instrumentally and economically. A Swedish context is what concerns me most, apart from the instrumental interests of the Swedish Democrats, namely the expansion of governance and measurement. Management ideas, procurements and privatisations risk seriously politicising perhaps the most important cultural institution in society, i.e. our public libraries. The Biblioteksbladet's 2017 survey shows that privatisation of public libraries is being considered in several municipalities in the country. The decision to assign an entrepreneur to run public libraries is rarely based on arguments other than lower cost, flexibility and less detail management. Completed library contracts have also developed remuneration after performance – the more loans, the higher the profit. In addition, it has been shown that private libraries with this type of compensation system and governance find it difficult to live up to providing literature in minority languages. The national library strategy, which was presented the other week at the Royal Library, states that the main purpose of the libraries is to promote the development of democratic society through the provision of knowledge and free expression of opinion. It is therefore the task of libraries to carry out activities beyond lending, for example, to develop methods to reach those who are currently unaware of what libraries have to offer. The collections and services of public libraries should therefore not be subject to any form of ideological or political restriction, nor any form of religious censorship, but also commercial pressure. I therefore believe that it is very important to question these privatisation ambitions that we see emerging. Madam President, I would like I will probably exceed my registered speaking time. However, I think it is important in the context of this report to also speak openly about the instrumental ambitions of the Swedish democrats with regard to libraries. In this report, they have called for three specific measures which I think are important to highlight. The first is that certain library services should be linked to citizenship. The second is that libraries should not pay particular attention to the needs of national minorities for accessible literature in minority languages. And the third is that you should not meet the need for literature in a language other than Swedish for people with other mother tongues. Madam President, I would like There was a previous wording in the Act that libraries should be accessible to all citizens. In fact, however, wisely this restriction has been removed in order to clarify the important role of libraries in democratic society. Libraries belong to everyone, which means that everyone has the right to access the library's offerings. The Swedish Democrats believe that foreign citizens should be denied access to the services of libraries and link disorder and mess up libraries to ethnic origin. This was last done in a debate article in Svenska Dagbladet that I have read about. The study carried out by the trade union DIK, where some 1,800 librarians have answered questions about anxiety, mess and threatening atmosphere, has shown that the cause of the mess varies but that it mainly has to do with where the library is located. The conclusion is that public libraries can be seen as a lacquer mouse paper for how their local community is doing. If the library is located in a residential area with social problems such as abuse or socio-economically weak, it will obviously be visible in the place that is open to everyone, that is, our public libraries. Therefore, the measures must primarily be social. We cannot have residential areas characterised by unemployment, poverty, crime and the like. However, even the emergency situation requires action. I take the working environment of our librarians very seriously, and the issue will of course be followed up – but not with the conclusions based on the ideological basis and assumptions of the Swedish Democrats, beyond the facts. Madam President, I would like The fact that public libraries should not pay particular attention to the needs of national minorities for literature in minority languages means almost an approach in which minorities are not seen as a natural part of Sweden. We all know that the Sami languages are under threat. Urgently threatened are the Umesami and the Pitesami, spoken by perhaps 10 to 20 people, but also the Lulesami and South Sami are classed by the Unesco language atlas that are seriously threatened. Not only has the language, culture and joik been banned, we also have a current situation where it comes to a book in Sami every five years. For me, it is self-evident that public libraries should guarantee minority literature to the indigenous population. If there is one thing I would like to point out that is absolutely fantastic about our democratic Sweden, Madam President, it is that I can go into a public library and borrow books in the forbidden language Kurdish. I can borrow books that my grandmother has buried in her basement and that have probably decayed during the 40 years of the dictatorship in Iran. It is a privilege that we have open, well-attended cultural institutions that do not make a difference between people and people and that exist for us to seek and take in knowledge and information. I think it is absolutely fantastic that freedom of speech, information and democracy form the basis for our public libraries and that as a Swedish-born I have been taught to read and write in Kurdish here in Sweden. Through all these possibilities I have had to live even more in my Swedish, democratic identity. This report reminds me that not all parties are of the opinion. However, the new formation of government shows that there are many of us who are prepared to fight for the democratic mission to remain in its present form. Madam President, I would like Finally, this report deals with motions on language, architecture and film policy. If there are any questions from the other parties, I will of course answer them, but otherwise I would like to reject the motions and support the proposal as a whole.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-823	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Redar for a very good speech. We can agree that it can be positive to have different languages in your background. Lawen Redar addresses the importance of freedom of expression. I thank you for that, because if it is crucial, it is the free right to express itself via culture and indeed to bring forward the individual expression that people themselves consider crucial. Over the last few days, we have seen that the Social Democrats in the European Parliament, and also here in Sweden, have had a view of freedom of expression on the digital front which has been a little different from that of many other parties here in the Chamber. I would like to hear Mrs Redar's point that it is now not only possible, but actually the requirement that an opinion be checked by another party before it can be freely presented. I'd like to hear Lawen Redar's view on that.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-825	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member highlights a question that may not specifically concern this report, but I am still prepared to respond. It is true that the directive voted on yesterday in the European Parliament has been described as a directive on polarisation, in which one party highlights freedom of expression and the other party questions the place of major commercial operators on the Internet. This is a minimum directive which we in the Social Democrats chose to support in order to show that we are in favour of cultural and artistic creators receiving compensation for the works they create. With the free circulation of the Internet, it is in fact the largest players who bring home this kind of economic gain from the activities and creation of small cultural creators and operators. That is why we have supported it. Now this is a minimum directive to be implemented in Swedish law within two years. We will have continued discussions to ensure that it does not restrict freedom of expression, but at the same time ensure that copyright remains a right to income for all these art and cultural creators.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-828	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your answer, but what we can see is that, in practice, many of these platforms have greater power. What will happen is that there will be a requirement for a filter that all content will go through, not least when it comes to the visual. Then the individual who has created a parody, a mem or another cultural expression based on existing copyrighted material will demand that it still be presented. For the first time in Swedish history, we have thus introduced a requirement for someone else to approve when your work can be presented in the free debate. We have not been used to this, and that is something for which the Social Democratic votes were decisive. Lawen Redar is absolutely right that we must ensure that cultural creators are paid. That is why we in the Center Party also wanted a directive that addressed these issues. But the solution that has now emerged means that we are ultimately in a situation where no cultural creator who builds on copyrighted material can know if it can be published and where internet giants can decide through their filters. There should also be some kind of appeal function that no one yet knows what it should look like. No minister can comment so far on how to create it, but it will decide whether anything can be presented. From the perspective of the Center Party, this is a sad day for freedom of expression at European and digital level. I had hoped that the Social Democrats would stand by their opinion that this is harmful. In fact, they have felt this throughout the process, but they finally changed – probably pressured by commercial operators.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-831	Madam President, I would like That is exactly the opposite: it is that we have chosen not to listen to the major commercial players who have led us to support and vote for this directive. This has been a work that has been going on for almost ten years, and there are a number of articles that I, too, am concerned about. Several of the Socialist Members of the European Parliament have also been very concerned about them. However, the choice was either to support the directive or not to do so. The fact that this area is a completely unregulated field and that cultural and artistic creators do not receive the considerable compensation we think they should have when they have achieved such an extremely high level of quality, education and so on in the works they create is an issue that concerns us. That is why we have supported the directive. This is a minimum directive, and we will be working on it for two years to implement it here in Sweden. I believe that the great analysis, which is not being carried out at the moment, is about the money that is behind this and that actually has not come to the cultural and arts creators. That is why we have supported the directive. However, we will follow up on this and, of course, if we see restrictions on freedom of expression, we will follow it up. It should not land wrong in any way.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-834	Madam President, I would like Once again, I have to start by dealing with some pure errors and also some pure misunderstandings – I think. Mr Redar touched on our view of minority languages, among other things, but I think she has taken it as the very opposite of what we are actually proposing. If you look at the report and look at our motion on this matter, it is clear that we want municipalities to give special priority under the Library Act to the purchase of literature in Swedish and in the national minority languages. Rather, we are talking about removing the requirement to give priority to books and literature in all the languages of the world. Rather, it should be a voluntary interest for the municipality to purchase, as far as resources and opportunities are concerned, that form of literature. International literature has a great value, not least for students but also in general. There are literature treasures from all corners of the world, and to the extent that you have resources you should of course be able to continue to buy that literature. We are very clear that we are defending minority languages. Looking further forward in the report, it is quite clear that we are doing so with greater urgency than the Social Democrats among others. The Swedish Democrats have a number of proposals in which we want to strengthen the status of minority languages. This is not least about the Sami languages that Lawen Redar himself mentioned, where we point to the need to strengthen Gaaltije as a South Sami centre for language and education, and Vaartoe and the parts of Umeå University that work with the coordination of Sami issues. This is something that we are pushing, but the Social Democrats have consistently said no to strengthening Sami culture and language in these respects. It is important to include the aspect of self-criticism when conducting a debate that should be factual in this regard.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-839	Madam President, I would like I can assure Aron Emilsson that I devote a great deal of time and commitment to reading the Swedish democrats' movements because I am deeply interested in what type of instrumental cultural policy you are pursuing. We can see what you have clearly said in the motions, and I repeat what it says: libraries should not pay particular attention to the needs of national minorities for accessible literature in minority languages, and the need for literature in languages other than Swedish should not be met for people whose mother tongue is different. This, then, has been developed from the exercise. That's what I see is the conclusion there. Then it is true that the Swedish Democrats have pointed out that minority languages are threatened and that they want to take some action against this. I can then tell you what kind of measures we have taken to strengthen the conditions for the preservation of minority languages and the work behind it. We commissioned, among other things, the Institute for Languages and People's Memories in June 2018 to investigate how a language centre for the national minority languages can be organised. An interim report has been submitted and the final report will come later – in October. I hope that there we will have more detailed answers on how we can organise, finance and staff this work. Because there is a great need, not least for the Sami language.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-844	Madam President, I would like Once again, I can begin by responding to this statement. It is clear when you read our reservation in the section on library issues, precisely as regards the proposal to investigate how certain services of a more organisational and administrative nature can be linked to citizenship, including the purchase of literature, that the national minority languages and the Swedish language should be excluded. There must be a requirement that municipalities continue to prioritise these languages – the Swedish language and the national minority languages. But otherwise we cannot demand at state level that all municipalities, in sparsely populated areas, in rural areas, in cities and in large cities, have the ability and resources to prioritise the purchase of literature in all the languages of the world. Not everyone has that ability, and we must be humble in that regard. I would like to stress the seriousness of claiming that I would have, at some point and to some extent, tied up the issue of the importance of libraries being an open, democratic and quiet space and an oasis for both studies, education, the advancement of knowledge, the acquisition of knowledge and whatever it may be to a question of ethnic origin and that this would be threatened by that issue. What I have described is exactly the same as the Liberals have said this year: there is a need for some kind of access ban when people, whatever their background, threaten, abuse or openly conduct drug trafficking in libraries. Then municipalities need tools to handle this. For my part, it does not matter what background, ethnicity or other attributes the person who does this has; the damage is just as great regardless of this. I have never ever said that it would have anything to do with any particular ethnic background, but rather I have wanted to catch up on this social problem.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-848	Madam President, I would like I have read the article written by Aron Emilsson in Svenska Dagbladet and by the trade union DIK's study. In the line shift towards Aron Emilsson it is highlighted that one is extremely concerned about the image found in the article on ethnic origin. When you talk about anxiety and trouble in libraries, this is exactly what the study shows when you have talked to 1,800 librarians: This is a lacquer mouse paper for the area where the library is located. Stoken, disorder and crime also highlight the challenges of the local community. In order to take specific measures, social action is needed. We need to invest in school, and we need to ensure that we do not have housing areas characterised by poverty or crime. But, of course, we will also follow up on the specific concerns that librarians raise about what is happening in their working environment. We will look into this further and see if it requires action. Finally, I would like to highlight what Mr Emilsson says about ability. I trust the ability of our librarians. If you in the local community want and demand literature in a language other than Swedish, it should be available, because that's how we work in democratic Sweden.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-861	Madam President, I would like These are important issues dealt with in this report by the Committee on Culture. Many requests for exercise are about literature, libraries, languages, art and film. Let me begin by saying how important the issue of access to art and culture is to us in the Green Party. Because culture is fundamental to us humans, we must all be given the opportunity to experience it. This means that cultural policy should create the best possible conditions for all people regardless of age, functional variation, socio-economic factors or geographical location to have reasonable and equal opportunities to participate in art and culture. Museums, libraries, concert halls, exhibition halls and other institutions should be open and accessible and be widely distributed throughout the country. Similarly, free groups and individual artists should be able to operate in the country. Our national scenes should be well funded so that everyone at a reasonable cost can take part in the artistic activities there. Madam President, I would like Libraries are important institutions of democratic society. Here people with different backgrounds and conditions can meet for discussions about society and its development. The library is an arena for literature, reading, education, information management and free opinion formation. In a time of false news and alternative facts, the library is part of the total defense and thus extremely important for a free and democratic society characterised by diversity. Therefore, we in the Environmental Party attach great importance to having trained staff at libraries who with their expertise can assist the public with guidance in literature search as well as information management, source criticism and digital competence. Many people have a strong relationship with libraries. Often the local library is the public cultural institution closest to people. Who has not visited a library as a child, youth or adult, botanized among all books, magazines, and movies, and come home excited with a stack of books in the bag? I cannot point out enough how important reading ability is today to live in our knowledge society. A well-developed reading ability opens doors and provides tools for continued learning and opportunities to participate and influence in a democratic society. The difference between feeling safe or uncomfortable with reading can determine your entire schooling and therefore your whole future. The school and the library have a key role to play here. Children and students need to read for themselves, be read for and develop their reading comprehension in conversations about different texts and reading experiences. The basis for this is laid already in the first years of life. Madam President, I would like One of the main priorities of the Red-Green Government in the field of culture in recent years has been to promote children's and young people's reading. Extensive efforts have been made and are being made both at libraries and at school. For example, we have increased the supply and availability of library activities throughout the country. We have carried out staff reinforcements at the school libraries. We have also strengthened the development of competence to teachers and school librarians who work with students' language and reading development. There are many good examples around our country of how to work to increase children's literacy and language development. In my hometown of Gothenburg they have worked for a couple of years with the city where we read to our children. It is a unique holistic approach that mobilizes the whole of Gothenburg. Library has ready-made book bags and bookmarks with high reading tips. Home visits are made to families with children to talk aloud, and several of the city's preschools have been given hall libraries. Offering books for home loans in different arenas is a way to encourage and inspire parents to more reading and storytelling sessions with the children. Happily, we are now seeing a trend break in Swedish students' reading skills. After several international knowledge measurements with falling results, the reading ability of Swedish fourth graders has improved, and Sweden is now performing among the best in the world. At the same time, however, it also shows inequality in the ability to read. The background and socio-economic situation of pupils continue to play an important role in the results. We need to bridge the reading gaps. A reading delegation has worked to gather schools, cultural life and associations in efforts to read inside and outside the school. The reading delegation produced a report last year. We have a responsibility to manage the work that has begun. The proposals made by the Reading Delegation must be taken further. Those who listened to Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's Lindgren of government could hear the following: She was right. To this end, access to school libraries with trained librarians should be increased. The reading delegation's proposals will be implemented. It is gratifying to know that this is not only the ambition of the government, but also that of the Liberals and the Center Party. There is no lack of challenges for our libraries, and there is a need for a long-term common strategy for libraries in Sweden. Recently, we have heard about the proposal for a national library strategy, which the Royal Library has been commissioned to develop. Here too, reading and learning are highlighted as means of achieving the ultimate goal of strengthening education and therefore democracy. I look forward to the further preparation of the proposals presented. Madam President, I would like I call for the proposal in the Culture Committee's report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-874	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by pointing out that I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Swedish Democrats in this report. However, for time to come, I will only ask for the approval of reservation 16 from the Swedish Democrats. Earlier in the debate, my colleague Aron Emilsson has explained important areas of this report, such as library issues, and how we Swedish democrats view them. I myself will focus on the issues of film policy, which are constantly topical to work with in various ways for us members of the Committee on Culture. Madam President, I would like During this Parliamentary Session, the Swedish Democrats presented a battery of proposals in this area that could be of great importance to both actors and consumers in the Swedish film market. A particularly significant proposal among these is a new and modernised film agreement instead of today's state-of-the-art film policy. The basic idea of the state and industry financing film policy together is something we fundamentally welcome and support. We believe that a future design for a film agreement should be examined on the basis of mutual commitment from both the industry and the state. In time, the previous film agreement that was in place for over 50 years became obsolete, not least in view of how the post-market situation changed. Streaming services such as Netflix changed the way the aftermarket worked. This, of course, affected the possibility for the various actors in the film industry to contribute funding according to how the film agreement was constructed. When the film bill 2016 was presented by the government Löfven, it was a good time to act for a new and modernised film agreement. It was also the case that the Riksdag addressed an announcement to the government during the bill discussion that it wanted to see a new broad parliamentary film investigation. Instead, however, we have received the nationalised film policy that we are seeing today, despite the fact that the current film bill was rejected by Parliament on many points. Madam President, I would like The Swedish small-town cinemas in the countryside have been severely affected by the government's fully nationalised film policy, which has contributed to cementing a urban focus on culture. The increase in VAT on cinema visits to 25 percent has meant a death blow for several of the small town cinemas, for example in Gagnef in Dalarna and Säffle in Värmland. Tragically, it has had to throw in the towel since the new film policy of the government was implemented, despite the fact that the government budgeted for special support for cinemas in small towns. This support, which exists and which the government has invested in, can only go to new investments, not to cover losses or current expenditure. It has therefore not helped small-town cinemas after VAT cases. Then it becomes almost parody when the government Lövven film bill goes under the name More film to more – a coherent film policy. The cinemas I am talking about are in many cases the central cultural intermediaries in smaller towns. The Swedish Democrats believe that rural culture should live and that small town cinemas play an important role in this, not only in theory but also in practice. Madam President, I would like Another important policy issue in the field of film concerns production incentives. In December 2017, the Swedish Agency for Growth and the Swedish Film Institute released a report on the introduction of film production incentives in Sweden. The report concluded that Sweden is disadvantaged in international competition and that it undermines the capacity and competence of Swedish film production. The report was produced as a result of the Swedish Parliament's vote in 2016 that the Government should urgently investigate the possibility of production incentives and funding incentives for film production in Sweden. Sweden is one of the few countries in Europe that has not yet introduced film production incentives. However, the Swedish Democrats have been pointing out since 2015 that there is a strong need for action on this issue as the conditions for Swedish film are deteriorating as time without fair competition continues. Minister for Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind has stated shortly after she took office that the government will look into production incentives during the current year. I have also received confirmation of this in the answer to a written question that I put to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. It's something you'll look at. If it is to be dealt with, it will be done within the framework of the budget proposal. Sounds like we're in agreement. That's good. Then I hope it can become a reality as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like As I said at the outset, the Swedish Democrats have a whole set of proposals in the area of film policy, which could lead Sweden in the right direction. In general, the Swedish democrats are very much in favour of increased political cooperation with the other Nordic countries. This is, of course, something that applies to us in film policy as well. The 2016 film bill states precisely that the Swedish film market is not large enough to maintain a vibrant film industry. One response from us from political quarters may then be to invest in the production incentives that I have talked about, but also to invest in greater cooperation within the Nordic region. It is a cooperation that is already good in many ways today, but where there is certainly more to be done. In turn, the artistic freedom of the film industry depends on this independence. This means that artistic freedom could be increased if the industry had increased opportunities to stand on its own feet through increased Nordic cooperation. For the Nordic language understanding and many other things, this type of collaboration is also important.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-887	Madam President, I would like Since 2012, there is the possibility for private individuals to save money on so-called investment savings accounts. These accounts, which are usually shortened to ISK, were introduced by the then alliance government and quickly became very popular. That was good, because saving is very important. The purpose of ISK was to create a system that makes savings easier and more attractive to more people and to enable greater economic freedom for more people. Unfortunately, however, the Red-Green Government has pursued a policy that reduces this freedom. By increasing the tax on ISK twice, the government has made this form of savings less attractive. This has at least partially undermined the purpose of the savings reform. Government policy has been negative from at least two different perspectives. Firstly, private savings are not encouraged, and I think that is quite the wrong way to go. On the contrary, savings should be encouraged. Secondly, the rules will be less long-term for savers. This too, I think, is quite the wrong way to go. On the contrary, we need long-term rules. When the positive effects of ISK are reduced, it also means that it is more difficult for people in general to save efficiently. Those who have the time and energy to understand different models can of course still save money effectively. But the government has made it more difficult for all those who for various reasons prefer the simple model that ISK is. All those who are already busy with everyday life as it is have found it more difficult to save money effectively. It is an inequality that the Red-Green Government has created. Madam President, I would like No system is perfect, nor are the systems that we have been involved in creating. In the report we are debating here today, the Swedish National Audit Office has pointed out that improvements are needed in the system. Improvements are needed to make it possible to participate in new issues and ISK IPOs. However, the anti-sparing policy of the last parliamentary term seems to continue now. The government itself writes that it agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office that a review of the regulations should take place, but then no measures are proposed. The government thus admits that there are shortcomings in the area, but ignores doing something about them and then says that the Swedish National Audit Office's report has been finalised. But even if the government ignores private savings, we in Parliament should not do so. Making it easier for individuals to save is an important issue. Therefore, I and the Christian Democrats want the Riksdag to announce to the Government that the regulations should be simplified for investment savings accounts in the manner proposed by the Swedish National Audit Office. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-894	Madam President, I would like The debate concerns the Swedish National Audit Office's report on ISK. We have heard Hampus Hagman explain exactly what we are discussing. He repeatedly says that the previous term of office made it more difficult to save in ISK. It's actually completely wrong. Taxation has been increased, but we have not made it more difficult. The main point with ISK is that it is easy to save in, for example, stocks in an ISK. When you sell and purchase, you do not need to account for losses and gains on each individual purchase and so on, but you have a flat-rate taxation that is equal and based on the holding over time and not the changes in value when you buy and sell, for example. That system is unchanged. This is the big win with ISK, that you can easily save in stocks, for example. But it cannot be the role of the tax system to steer savings from one form to another by making more money in one system than in another. Our system should be as neutral as possible between different forms of savings. It has nothing to do with difficulty. Of course, it can be argued that certain forms of placing money should be more favorable than others. But it's not about how easy or hard it is to save money. There are, of course, problems that arise in the Swedish National Audit Office's report. This applies, for example, to new issues and IPOs. These are the things we have to take with us in the future and watch. At present, there is no proposal to make any changes, as we heard here earlier. But the problems are noted and will be dealt with in time, perhaps on a larger issue of tax reform in the future or otherwise. It is not that there is the possibility, and it has probably not been for so many other previous governments either, to immediately jump over and have ready proposals for things that come in the National Auditor's report. You have to look at it and make sure it's done in a good way. It's not that much of a hurry. It is still a very good form of savings we are discussing here today.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-900	Madam President, I would like There was a time when trading in shares and other securities was primarily a business of stockbrokers, financiers and other depositors. Buying and selling securities on their own was not a common practice. Then came the internet. Through online banks, small savers today can easily trade in securities through a few keystrokes, from both traditional large banks and more niche pick-up banks. Through the investment savings account, share savings have been simplified. It has also become easier to declare. The usual small saver does not need to think about the tax consequences of relocating within its ISK. Madam President, I would like Investment savings accounts are not an exclusive story for a small elite. On the contrary – today there are more than 1.8 million investment savings accounts in Sweden. In total, over 280 billion have been invested via ISK. One can rightly argue that it has become the small savers' own peoples' movement. Then we, as legislators in Parliament, must send out the signal that saving should pay off. We will make it easy to save, especially in the current situation where many households are at historically high loan levels. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office's report is welcome. Basically, the rules on stock saving in ISK need to be kept under constant review. Policy should set the framework but not limit development. The regulatory framework must then be responsive to the constraints of the current ISK system. We do not know what savings products are in the future. We can only look at the concept of crowdfunding, or crowdfunding, which began to appear about ten years ago. What lies ahead, we can only guess, and perhaps not even that. With this, Mr President, I support the proposal of the Committee on Taxation.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-906	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by quoting the Social Democrats, who said just now that this report does not immediately have to go over things and make changes. Then one might wonder why the Social Democrats last time they gained power in this house immediately threw themselves over the ISK taxation and began to raise it step by step. Why should you not immediately throw yourself at things in one direction, when it comes to the fact that the tax should perhaps be lowered, when you so well did it in the other direction? Mr President, I would like to It was said earlier in the speaker's chair from the Socialist side that it has not become more difficult to save in ISK. That's not true. It is more difficult if the cost is higher because taxes increase. This makes it more difficult to save money for an investment in an apartment or in starting a business. It becomes more difficult to get funding to make a creative, market-shattering innovation of that idea that has been gnawing for a long time – you only need a few crowns to get it on the market. Mr President, I would like to It should of course be easy to save, from a purely bureaucratic perspective. People must be able to understand how to save without having to make a lot of trouble with the declaration and without having to be afraid to make mistakes. That is why, Mr President, perhaps one should learn from ISK. Instead of contenting yourself, we should perhaps make proposals to make it easier to save even for those who do not want to save in an ISK. This actually means a different kind of risk-taking to save in ISK than saving in the traditional way. If it's simpler technically, perhaps you should learn from it and make it easier to save even outside an ISK. But of course the tax on savings should be low so that more people, regardless of their background, have the chance to save money for the first company or apartment or to make an innovation out of their idea. I am pleased that the Social Democrats are opening up to include this in the debate on tax reform. I am sorry that the Social Democrats do not understand that, year after year, savings have been made more difficult for ordinary people.
i-CYdHr1yGuWreAQR4DH2Jc1	Mr President, I would like to SkU8 report deals with the Government's letter No 29, the Swedish National Audit Office's report on reduced VAT on foodstuffs. The reduced VAT rate, which is 12%, was introduced over 20 years ago and aimed at strengthening the purchasing power of families with children and low income households, among other things. The idea is really really good. Everyone consumes food, and there is no huge difference in the amount of food that everyone needs. In addition, the cost share of low-income households for food is higher than for more high-buying groups, which means that the relative benefit to the target groups can be assumed to be greater. On the other hand, it has long been noted that different households consume various expensive foods, which should mean that strong buying groups can have more to gain in absolute terms from reduced VAT. In its report No 25 for 2018, the Swedish National Audit Office has now presented a review report on reduced VAT on food with regard to price effect, distribution profile and cost-effectiveness. The conclusion reached is that the distribution profile is certainly quite good but that cost-effectiveness is low. The tax expenditure resulting from the reduced VAT is SEK 27 billion, while it would only cost about half as much, SEK 13.4 billion, to compensate the relevant target groups for a VAT increase to 25 percent. The Swedish National Audit Office therefore believes that there should be other distribution policy measures that are more accurate than reduced food VAT – measures that are less costly or that can benefit the target groups better. The Government's letter on this report answers, among other things, that the Swedish National Audit Office's report can form the basis for future work. Instead, we Swedish democrats believe that now that we have a review report that clearly shows that there are savings or improvements to do the equivalent of ten billion SEK annually, there is reason to take the review so seriously that the matter is investigated immediately. The government should examine which distribution policy measures better benefit families with children and low income households. This is the meaning of the Swedish Democrats' motion in connection with the letter, and I call for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-915	Mr President, I would like to This House has had many tax debates. The question of whether the amount of tax required by the State should be levied in the form of taxes on consumption or taxes on income and wealth has always been the subject of a struggle. This is natural in a society where the income of different citizens is different because the result of political proposals affects everyone differently. Not infrequently, ideological differences are precisely about this. When the Right gets what it wants, it all too often means tax cuts for the richest at the expense of welfare and what it can do for the weaker ones. For us social democrats, it is self-evident to have a high standard of tax-funded well-being that covers everyone while at the same time governing the tax system with a view to redistributing resources in society. Progressive income tax is more burdensome for high-income earners than for low-income earners. VAT, on the other hand, is the same for everyone per commodity consumed, but, for example, VAT on food is becoming much harder the lower the income is. The tax proposals always cost something, but not unexpectedly they cost different things for people with different incomes. Despite the welfare policy and our equality efforts, there are still islands of distress and scarcity in our society – poor pensioners, single women with children where the man has moved his livelihood, long-term ills, low-paid and low-skilled, to name a few. We must not forget this despite the official image of a prosperous middle class society where everyone and every other person lives in villas and where the problem is marginal tax. Changes in tax rates always need to take account of a whole that goes beyond mere figures and pure tax issues. It is important to see the whole of Sweden and also people beyond the vision of their own life. In tax debates, it becomes very clear how it is thought that the financing of welfare should look like and, above all, who should pay for it. Questions of class, gender and ethnicity are very much present in tax matters. Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on reduced VAT on food. The Swedish National Audit Office has examined the cost-effectiveness of food VAT, and the background is the reduction in VAT made in January 1996. It was part of a major action programme aimed at stabilising the Swedish economy after the major economic crisis of the 1990s. The government then chose to reduce VAT on the grounds that it wanted to counteract negative distributional effects that would result from reduced remuneration levels in the social security systems. At the time, it was argued that reducing food prices would be particularly beneficial for families with children and low income earners. Because everyone consumes food, the support hits all households. Therefore, the reduction of VAT on food has a low cost-effectiveness based on the objective of supporting families with children and low income earners. The Swedish National Audit Office estimates that we could increase revenue by SEK 13 billion in the event of a VAT increase if at the same time we were to compensate families with children and low income earners in a different way. At the same time, however, the report shows that the reduction in food has a positive distribution profile, which means that the purchasing power of low-income and families with children is strengthened relative to other households, measured by percentage changes. Conversely, this means that although raising food VAT affects everyone, low-income and families with children are the hardest hit. The Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation to the Government is to set up a study on reduced VAT to determine whether the motive is still the same and to consider other ways to support families with children and low income earners. Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Swedish National Audit Office has carried out this survey. The report can provide a basis for future work, where an overall assessment can be made. Cost-effectiveness is an important issue, but at the same time there may be other factors that need to be taken into account for a functioning whole. In addition, we do not believe that work already in progress should be taken forward. In fact, there is VAT work going on both within the EU and in Sweden. Moreover, since the January agreement between the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals, there have been plans to carry out a comprehensive tax reform, which will turn all the stones around to bring about a whole. We Social Democrats assume that this issue will also be included in the discussions for future tax reform. Having said that, I also call for the motion for a resolution by the Swedish Democrats to be rejected.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-927	Mr President, I would like to Today we have to consider a report from the Swedish National Audit Office on the effects of reduced VAT on food. This reform was made a long time ago to benefit low-income households and families with children. The report has responded to whether it has had a full impact on prices, whether it has been positive from the point of view of distribution policy and whether it has been cost-effective. With regard to the first two questions, it has been well established that the reform served its purpose, but on the third question, if it has been cost-effective, the answer is: No, it has not. I found the report interesting to read. It probably made us all think. I guess the common man in society – our friends, acquaintances, colleagues and perhaps many of us too – has almost forgotten the fact that there is lower VAT on food. Then it is interesting to consider why there has been no evaluation of this issue since 1996. These measures have never been evaluated, so this is a cost of 27 billion. But, fortunately, the conclusion has been that if you are going to do something about this – that should of course be done in the long run to achieve cost-effectiveness – you cannot simply increase VAT on food. I think we all agree on that. After all, there are other advantages to reduced VAT on food. This must be taken into account in an overall assessment, and the Government also agrees with this in its comments to the Swedish National Audit Office's report. It has also been said that the report has provided in-depth knowledge. It could have devastating effects if we decided to increase the VAT rate on food. Let us remember that in 1996 we had just joined the European Union. Since then we have had food production that has gone up and down. The vast majority of us, if not all of us, also agree that we should invest in increased self-sufficiency. Food production is therefore extremely important, and therefore also the VAT rate on food. I think, like many previous speakers, that it is wise to take into account the investigations already under way at national and EU level and that we should include this issue in future investigations and also in the review of the tax reform to be carried out with the January agreement. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-933	Mr President, I would like to When the teacher in Kramfors, the driver in Örnsköldsvik, the nurse in Ånge, the shop assistant in Sundsvall and everyone else who works today reads their pay slip, they still have too little of their hard paid salary. Income tax on mainly low- and middle-income earners must continue to be reduced. Everyone who works and has worked got reduced tax from the turn of the year with the budget voted through here in Parliament before Christmas, a budget that we moderated together with the Christian Democrats had worked out. We are proud of that, but more needs to be done. Mr President, I would like to The economic drivers of work are crucial for more people to work. Today, work is still not paying enough, and there are families who even lose disposable income from going from benefits to work. It's neither right nor fair. In order for work and effort to always pay off, we want to continue to reduce taxes on labour and introduce a benefit reform. A strengthened work line creates more jobs while ensuring that the Swedish people's accumulated tax resources are more likely to go to welfare than to benefits. It wins all of Sweden, not least northern Sweden. In order for it to pay better to work, we want to continue to reduce tax mainly on those with low incomes. It means reduced taxes for everyone who works, but especially for those who take the step from exclusion to employment. Mr President, I would like to When the environmental technology companies in Härnösand or the engineering industry in Örnsköldsvik want to employ staff, the lack of the right skills today is a major obstacle. In order for more people to take the step of further training during their working lives and to build skills that meet the needs of the labour market, we Moderates want to introduce a transition deduction. The conversion allowance shall mean that people can receive a tax credit for their training costs. The deduction should be designed in such a way that those who have the greatest need to build on their skills and increase their employability, i.e. low income groups or with high sick leave rates, are given the opportunity to do just that. We therefore propose that the government return with proposals for a conversion package to improve the opportunities for people to fund higher education later in life. The conversion package should contain a number of things, including an increase in the amount of the release, i.e. the income that you can have alongside your studies in order to increase the possibility of combining work and studies. We also want to raise the age limit for study funds, for example, to 60 years. Mr President, I would like to In order to attract key persons to Swedish working life, Sweden, like many other countries, has introduced a special tax relief for foreign experts, specialists, researchers and other key individuals, the so-called expert tax. Tax criteria vary widely in different countries. Evaluations have shown that this has an impact on the number of recruitments of experts, specialists and researchers. For example, the number of researchers and key individuals who use the expert tax in Denmark is much larger than in Sweden. In this context, it should be borne in mind that Sweden is a larger country and has more large companies than Denmark. The independent institute with a focus on experts, researchers and specialists believes that the reason may be that the income limit when it comes to applying for expert tax is higher in Sweden and that the Danish expert tax applies for longer than in Sweden. In order to improve the attractiveness of key staff, the expert tax should be reviewed. This applies both to the period during which the tax relief can be used and to the income limit that governs who can apply for tax relief. Sweden's competitiveness depends on us being able to attract excellence. Mr President, I would like to The RUT deduction has meant that many new jobs have emerged. Black jobs have gone white with more secure employment relationships. The new jobs have often gone to people who have previously had a weak base on the labour market, such as foreign born and young women. More than half of those who run a company in the RUT industry are women. In addition to creating more jobs, the RUT deduction was intended to facilitate the life puzzle of working parents. Research has also shown that this has been the case. However, in order to facilitate people's everyday lives and to allow even more simple jobs to grow, there was a triple of the RUT deduction in the budget presented by Moderates and Christian Democrats in Parliament before Christmas and which also won a majority. If I have understood correctly, it is also part of the 73-point programme that the government, together with the Centre Party and the Liberals, has come up with. We want to continue to broaden the RUT reform and include, among other things, security, laundry, migration and take-back services to create more jobs and create opportunities for more people to exploit them. At the same time, we would like to investigate a more generous deduction for older people, a broader deduction for people over the age of 70. There, more and easier services at home would be eligible for tax reduction. Mr President, I would like to During last summer's forest fires, about a hundred people from different parts of the country were recruited by the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, MSB, to work with extinguishing work in the fire areas. These people and everyone else who participated made an invaluable contribution to our country. The persons were given temporary employment contracts. According to the Swedish Tax Agency's rules, food, accommodation and travel to and from the service point must be taxed preferentially. These rules were applied in the case of the temporary firefighters. The result of the Swedish Tax Agency's rules was that the volunteers, but also MSB, suffered an unreasonable administrative burden when reporting the benefits they received during the extinguishing work. In the end, volunteers were not adversely affected financially, but the administrative difficulties that arose are not reasonable for a group that has made a very important contribution to society. MSB has previously raised the issue with the Swedish Employers' Agency of being able to employ emergency staff at home instead of at the intervention centre, thus making the operation a mission trip and thus avoiding unnecessary administration. On this occasion, MSB was refused at its request. We Moderates want the question of the possibility for the temporary staff to be exempted from the Swedish Tax Agency's rules to be re-examined and the rules concerning voluntary work in the event of crises to be reviewed in order to facilitate engagement and recruitment. To conclude, Mr President, I naturally agree with all the reservations expressed by the Moderates, but for reasons of time, I am only in favour of reservation No 1.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-947	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we agree with all our reservations, but in order to gain time at voting time, I only ask for reservations 2 and 17. The Swedish Democrats are a social conservative party. We see a need to safeguard social protection systems for our citizens through a well-functioning healthcare chain in all areas. This also applies to the care that goes into fields other than traditional hospital care. This also applies to the socio-economic security that we expect to be valid for our elderly. After decades of disarmament of Swedish defence, we also see the need to start reversing developments so that one day we in Sweden will be able to offer our citizens a full and complete defence. For Sweden to be able to afford all the ambitions we have, we must, among other things, maintain growth-oriented fiscal policies. Today, therefore, I am addressing both small and large tax proposals that are relevant to these areas. The 73-point programme of the January Agreement includes the implementation of a comprehensive tax reform. We see this as very positive, and we are, of course, open to such talks. Mr President, I would like to In comparison with other countries, Swedish companies have a high tax on employee stock options, despite already implemented tax reliefs. Only two other countries are close to Sweden, and our tax rate is almost double the average. The reason for this is that employee options are included in income category service and therefore usually are charged with high marginal tax. They are not taxed under income from capital in Sweden. The problem is that employee stock options are not really a service income, but an instrument related to capital. The option thus depends on the value of the share capital in the company. Therefore, our Swedish tax model regarding employee stock options is fundamentally incorrect. The Swedish Democrats want to remedy this legal mismatch with a regular capital tax on the realised profit from the use and disposal of employee stock options. This would reduce the difference between the highest and the lowest capital tax rates and lead to a tax-fairer link between base and income. Mr President, I would like to Swedish healthcare is heavily burdened, not least because of too little resources and high demand from a growing population. Nurses and others in health care are making a heroic effort to save lives and work with people's needs for care and help. Equally heavy burdens carry employees in care for the elderly – this is another area where many employees are under pressure. We politicians need to send a signal about how highly we value employees in health care. The point is that it is also reasonable for equal tax rules to apply to both sectors, especially where the sectors overlap. Where care goes into care, it is fully justified that care rules should also apply within elderly care. We therefore propose that the exemption for taxable dietary benefit should also apply to healthcare professionals working in somatic wards in care for the elderly. Mr President, I would like to Our elders who have served our country for many years have borne and built our country. It is a fact that older people have worked longer and more years compared to younger ones, which in itself is quite natural. Those who have worked for a long time in Sweden are also the people who have paid the most taxes in SEK. The fact that these people receive a higher tax on their earned money than younger employees is completely unreasonable. It appears to be a form of criminal taxation of the long working lives of older people. That is why we believe that we must abolish this penalty tax on pensioners completely, that is, the additional tax imposed on income from pensions compared with income from employment. The government's tax reduction is a step in the right direction, but we are not satisfied until the tax has been removed in its entirety. We therefore want income from employment to include income from retirement. Mr President, I would like to The past summer was very warm, so warm that many of us sometimes began to wonder if we were really in Sweden. Here, however, the temperature is usually kept to a reasonable level during the summer. Summer heat can often provide a sense of security, but the summer that was not just a feeling of security. On the contrary, a great deal of anxiety was created among many when large fires raged in many places around the country. Many were allowed to volunteer as intervention personnel and resources prepared to fight fires in the event of proliferation. The Swedish Democrats want to make an announcement that we need to value those people who really participated in extinguishing forest fires. Had they not done their work, the damage that occurred last summer could have been considerably greater. We therefore believe that we need to look at the possibilities of giving tax relief or compensation to citizens who are active in the voluntary movement. The Swedish Democrats have long proposed that contract employees within the Swedish Armed Forces should avoid preferential taxation of simple meals in the field. Similarly, we see it as highly reasonable that people working in the national intervention activities should be exempt from preferential taxation. This issue should be dealt with quickly, and the government should be able to come back fairly quickly with an adjustment in tax legislation. It is reasonable, fair and an expression of our common solidarity to our Sweden.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-960	Mr President, I would like to Tax rules should be effective economic instruments but also promote a legitimate and fair tax system. Confidence in the tax system is crucial not only for legitimacy but, by extension, also for the welfare state. People should be able to trust that every crown is used correctly. Sweden's high tax burden requires the prudent use of each krona. Mr President, I would like to A well-functioning infrastructure throughout the country is a prerequisite for job creation, for being able to settle throughout the country and easily travel between home and work, for the goods transport of the business community and for taking part in culture and social contexts. Sweden needs to build more strong labour market regions where villages, communities and cities are linked together through increased mobility. Although many dream of living in the country, many rural municipalities lack teachers, nurses and other important occupational groups. In order for more people to dare to take the step and move to a rural municipality or move back home after studying, a carrot is needed. Mr President, I would like to In Norway, write-off of student loans has proved to be an effective measure to encourage more people to move to rural areas after higher education. The Center Party therefore proposes that those who move to the interior of Norrland and northern Dalarna should be able to write off student loans. These are measures that help us keep our elongated country together. Mr President, I would like to Both revenues from environmental taxes and taxes on labour have been rising or constant since the 1990s, but behind these figures there are significant changes. As emissions have decreased over the period, the effective tax burden on environmental impact has risen. As employment has increased and jobs have increased since 2006, income from taxes on labour has also increased, despite lower tax rates. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party makes green tax exchange a central part of both environmental policy and economic policy. Environmental degradation should cost. Higher taxes on environmental impact are matched with tax cuts on jobs, jobs and investments. This provides better conditions for Swedish companies to contribute to the Swedish economy and employment, while reducing emissions and environmental impacts when the polluter pays the emission cost. By exchanging environmental taxes with reduced labour taxes, the cost of hiring and working also falls. This will strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish companies while equipping the Swedish economy for the global green transition. The fact that Swedish companies take the lead and are at the forefront of the transition to a renewable and climate-smart economy is to strengthen our competitiveness and the conditions for more jobs in the long term. Reducing and, in the long term, phasing out environmentally harmful subsidies, such as fossil fuels and materials, is another way of creating a sustainable society through the tax system. Mr President, I would like to There is great potential to reduce emissions in the real estate sector. Cost-effective efforts for energy efficiency, insulation and ventilation can bring great climate benefits. Taxes affect the way people and businesses behave. Therefore, the Center Party wants to make green investments and green technologies more profitable by introducing a green deduction that acts as a double ROT deduction for climate-smart investments in the home. Mr President, I would like to We also need a general review of the rules on preferential taxation. Since the 1970s, the tax rules for small businesses have included so-called stop rules. These rules have affected the predictability of the few-timers in terms of both the amount levels of the valuation and the property covered. A review must include whether special rules are justified for small-time entrepreneurs. It should also cover the very basis of taxation. Mr President, I would like to There have been major changes in what is considered health care benefits, which is really good. But still, in 2019, there is a major overall flaw in the system: Those who run their own company do not have the opportunity to make a health allowance, despite the fact that those who run a company have exactly the same needs – perhaps even a greater need. It is reasonable that those who are the basis of our well-being should also be included in the welfare systems. We need more people who become entrepreneurs and put their ideas into practice. Then it is also important that they are encouraged by the systems. For this reason, the rules governing who may benefit from a fitness allowance must be reviewed so that their own entrepreneurs can also make a deduction for health care. With this, Mr President, I naturally support the centre-party reservations. For time winning, however, I only agree to reservation 3.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-972	Mr President, I would like to Taxes are the most effective instruments available. What we want less is higher taxes, and there are many examples of this, such as environmental pollution, alcohol consumption and tobacco consumption – to name a few. On the contrary, what we want more is less tax. From this point of view, it is a little strange that income taxes, taxes on labour, are the ones that bring in by far the most money to the state. More people need to work, and it needs to be cheaper for companies to hire. Then the share of income taxes in the total tax cake needs to be reduced. There are many reservations in the report, and that is a good thing. There is much to do in this area. Many taxes need to be reduced – simply. Mr President, I would like to Today, many industries are struggling to be active employers. This is a major issue both in the private sector and in the public sector. Competition for employees is high. The labour shortage is high in a wide range of sectors. The person with the right education and skills can pit many different employers against each other. It needs to be easier to be a really attractive employer in Sweden. It needs to be made easier and cheaper to give employees different benefits. A good start, which also has a positive effect on the climate, is to enable employers to subsidise bicycle and public transport travel to and from work without it being considered a taxable benefit. The Christian Democrats want an inquiry into this. Mr President, I would like to At the moment, the times are good, but we also know that the economic cycle is swinging. The good situation that many are experiencing today will not last forever. That is why unemployment insurance also needs to be strengthened, not least by encouraging more people to join insurance. Making part of unemployment insurance deductible would be a good way to achieve that objective. The Christian Democrats want to make unemployment insurance deductible equivalent to 25% of the contribution. Mr President, I would like to I have spoken about private business and the public sector. They are two important sectors of society, but they are certainly not the only parts of society. Society is much larger than private enterprise and the public sector; society is also made up of associations. Civil society, associations and non-profit organisations lay the foundations for democracy. Sometimes it may sound like civil society is a leisure activity, a sidetrack to what is happening in the private and in the public. But civil society is much more important than that. In society we learn to listen to others, we learn to compromise and we learn the foundations of democracy. We also learn humanity. A good role model in an association is often what makes young people get on the right track in life. We also know that community itself is positive for people. Involuntary loneliness costs society a large amount each year. That is why civil society's preconditions are very much a matter for this House. There are currently favourable tax rules for sports clubs. The rules mean that the association does not have to pay employers' fees for sportsmen, trainers and competition officials as long as the remuneration is less than half a price base amount. With this exception, the sports movement has a benefit that matters a great deal to the business. It creates the conditions for all the good that I just described. However, the same regulatory framework should also apply to other non-profit organisations. This should apply, for example, to organisations within Swedish outdoor life. These are organisations which, like sport, bring together a lot of people and which, like sport, contribute to community and democracy. All non-profit organisations are important to society and should have good fiscal conditions. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to say a few brief words about the right to deduct donations to non-profit organisations. Christian Democrats have in several motions called for announcements to the government that the gift tax deduction should be reintroduced. The deduction means that those who donate money to approved organisations in the social field or in research receive a tax deduction of up to SEK 1,500 annually. Similar systems exist in all EU countries except one. The deduction has also been in Sweden between 2012 and 2015, and it was a great success. During those years, giving increased greatly. When the Riksdag adopted the Christian Democrats' and Moderates' budget last winter, it meant, among other things, a decision that the gift tax deduction should be reintroduced. The government has also announced that this should happen. A proposal from the government comes to Parliament on 9 April, and we Christian Democrats are very positive about that. As this will now happen, I have abstained from expressing my reservations in favour of the question. On the other hand, the Christian Democrats have a number of other reservations in the report. Of course, I support everyone, but for reasons of time, I am only in favour of reservation 4.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-987	Mr President, I would like to The tax system and income tax are in place so that we can have the necessary welfare. It should be a well-being that is so great that it can do the most necessary and provide the ultimate safety net for those who do not otherwise make it. However, the tax system should limit as little as possible the rights of individuals to their own money, to their own hard-earned money. The tax system should also, Mr President, be as little harmful to the economy as possible. I think it is clear to me and most other liberals, perhaps even all other liberals, that the tax burden on income in Sweden is far too high. It is too high because the necessary welfare cannot be justified. In relation to the welfare that is actually needed, too many crowns are brought in with the tax bill, and there are too many crowns taken from people who actually have to keep their own money. Mr President, I would like to I usually say in the speaker's chair that we should go back a little more often in this House not only to what is good for the economy – it is good that reduced taxes are good for the economy – but also to what is right and right. I believe that we politicians must respect the limits of politics and the rights we politicians have to take other people's money on this issue. Economist Bastiat wrote that when looting becomes a lifestyle for a group of people, they in time create for themselves a legal system that allows looting and a moral code that motivates looting. We should think of those people who began as looters and robbers, who then became kings, and have eventually become those who are part of our democracy, when we discuss, for example, income tax. I think we should think about what right we take money from people. On what basis do we stand when we deprive people of the livelihood that they themselves have scraped together? I think that we should relate to the history that all political institutions always have – that it is from the beginning a highway robbery that has then developed into the tax system that we have today. It follows, of course, Mr President, that I think the tax should be reduced. But it is also good for Sweden to lower the tax. We know that today we have a lack of many professions. We need more people who choose to go the last distance and go the slightly tougher education. Then it needs to pay more to train. It needs to pay more to work hard. It needs to pay more to take responsibility for yourself to become more productive. Then you also need to retain the income you receive to a greater extent. We know that large, medium-sized and small companies in this country are all struggling with human resources. I do not think that any politician in this House can go on a study visit to a company and not be told that there are problems with staff supply. A big explanation for this is that the tax on labour is too high. You make too little money by going to work and by training yourself to the necessary professions. Our high tax burden, especially on income, also means that fewer people want to come to Sweden and work. We have too low labour migration to meet the staff and skills needs of companies in this country. It is clear, Mr President, that the responsibility for companies not going around because they cannot get people with the right skills here and the responsibility for people who work still going on their knees economically lies in this House. It is the politicians in here who want to see high taxes rather than low taxes that bear the responsibility when companies go on their knees and fail to manage their human resources and when people who work nevertheless do not have enough money to make ends meet. I am pleased that we are going to get through the abolition of the military tax. I will enjoy it, Mr President, when I see the Social Democrats pushing the button and finally abolishing the defence tax. The tax that means that Sweden has one of the world's highest marginal taxes. The tax that means that Sweden is one of the countries in the world where it is least profitable to train a little extra and be a little more productive. The treasure that is among the most in the world means that people's own economic freedom is being pruned. I will enjoy it when the Social Democrats help me abolish the military tax. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that there is an area in which we politicians need to take responsibility and actually go into a free market and manage and set a little more than in other areas. It is of course the environment and the climate. I am pleased that we are going to make aggressive tax cuts on labour, but I am also pleased that we are going to raise taxes on things that are bad for the climate. Mr President, I would like to With those words, I would like to say that, like the others, I agree with the views and letters of my own party in this policy area, but also that I am in favour of reservation 5.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-1001	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions. I have read all the motions with great interest and I have seen a clear tendency in the direction of Members' exercise. Exercises from the right – moderate arm in arm with KD and SD – are about flat income tax, reduced tax, raised breakpoint and new job tax deductions. It's just tax cuts. Exercises from Social Democratic Members are about increasing equality. There are dramatic differences between people. There is a desire to reduce the gaps. Mr President, I would like to For me as a social democrat, freedom is one of the most important things there is – freedom for the many people. It should be combined with an effort to create equality. Then we will have a community of solidarity. We Social Democrats want a strong society so that people do not have to be weak. Imagine the freedom given to all children in our country and their parents when we have taken joint responsibility for funding preschool! Imagine the freedom of the many people in our country when you can gain knowledge from primary school and into the university world, and we all help to fund it! What freedom it is for people in our country that no one reviews the level of your credit card when you have a heart attack, but it is the ailments and needs that determine! What freedom it is for a person who, in the time of structural change, becomes unemployed that we have a safety net in decent unemployment insurance and labour market policies! What freedom it is for the individual today when the ailments come and the disease strikes to not feel that you lose all possibilities in life! For the Social Democrats, tax is a means to achieve political goals, so that together we can grow and develop as free people. We shall have a tax system based on sustainability and equalising resources. I do not believe that the level of taxation in general can be reduced. I think it is the opposite, and there are several economists who take that view. But I think we need to change the tax system. Since the major tax reform in the 1990s, there have been some 200 exemptions in tax policy. Generally speaking, tax policy today has more of a regression than a progressive trend, i.e. it is more burdensome for low-income earners and does not have the redistribution that a tax system should have. Income taxes can be reduced for groups, but we need to review capital taxation and justice between different social groups in our society. The climate aspect is also important. The green tax shift must become even more central. Mr President, I would like to I read an article in Svenska Dagbladet– this morning, I think it was – about invasive species, i.e. those that grow but are impossible to eradicate. Completely impossible! Then I thought: That is a small illustration of Moderates' attitude in tax policy. There is only one direction, and it cannot be influenced. It's right there. Lower the treasure! And there's never a level down. I listened to the speech of the Moderates from the speaker's seat. There was not a word about what taxes are used for and not a word about welfare. For a social democrat, fiscal policy is a means of achieving welfare. For a moderate, fiscal policy is an objective in which taxes are to be reduced.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-1019	Mr President, I would like to I must say that it was an infringement to compare a political party with an invasive species to be exterminated. It was a violation by Mr Persson. After all, it is interesting to listen to Peter Persson, Mr President, because he has rhetoric that is not in line with the reality that his party is pushing politics towards. Justice, equality and solidarity are words that the honourable Member Persson and the Social Democrats often use. I would therefore like to ask Mr Persson: in what way will it be fairer and more equal when you Social Democrats intend to lower the tax on those who have the highest income and have hard-working low and middle-income earners pay this, including through increased petrol and diesel taxes? It also mainly affects those living outside the big cities. I would like an answer to that, Mr President.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-1022	Mr President, I would like to I want the Moderates to be fewer and the Party to be smaller, but I don't want to exterminate them. That's not how I put it. An invasive species is something that cannot be affected. I said it was about your values in tax policy, and Jörgen Berglund nodded in agreement. There you have only one position: taxes can only be reduced. I would like to ask you: what is the objective of Moderate tax policy? What do you think the tax rate should be as a percentage of gross domestic product in our country? And do you think it is harmful that we have joint funding for welfare? When you are going to reduce taxes – can you tell us in which areas you are going to reduce public spending? It has to correspond with your willingness to reduce taxes.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-1024	We usually speak through the President and not directly to the Member.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-1025	Mr President, I would like to Unlike Mr Persson, I shall reply to the questions put to me by the honourable Member. I note that I did not receive an answer to the question. But I'm going to turn it over to the honourable Member if he didn't get it. Welfare shall be financed jointly through the tax bill. We Moderates have been clear about that for a long time. The second question you asked was: How much should the tax burden be, and how much of the gross domestic product should it be? The simple answer is that it should be as low as possible. Mr President, I would like to I now return to the questions I put to Mr Persson: in what way will it be fairer when you Social Democrats now intend to lower the tax on those who earn the most and have people outside the big cities pay it through higher petrol and diesel taxes? If the honourable Member can answer this question, I would be grateful.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-1029	Mr President, I would like to That is a very interesting answer given by the honourable Member, Mr Berglund. There is one direction: the tax should be as low as possible. But it doesn't make sense when you say that welfare should not be affected. That goes without saying! I think my first-class grandchildren understand this: when the money is reduced, the amount is also reduced. Mr President, I would like to Then, as Mrs Berglund well knows, in the parliamentary situation we have today, I am very pleased that the Social Democrats and the Green Party have been able to get along with other parties and keep the hard right hand away from government power. I'm glad.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-1031	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by saying that perhaps it is not the Moderates' tax policy that has led the Liberals to opt for the January agreement, thereby forcing the Social Democrats to make major cuts in, for example, marginal taxes on labour. It is clear that one objective of fiscal policy must be to pay as little tax as possible. I think that every time we politicians put our hand in someone else's pocket and take a few extra crowns to something that we happen to think is good, we have to ask ourselves: by what right? By what right do I take this money from another human being? Mr President, I would like to You could say, as the Social Democrats did here just now, that you should fund a lot of important things in the welfare. But there is no conflict line in Swedish politics! The Social Democrats highlighted the issue of heart attacks. I amused myself in the bench by googling on the party programs of the other parties, and in none of them it says to remove the care of people who have a heart attack. The same applies to schools, which the Social Democrats raised. It seems that all parties in this Parliament think that we should have a general and free school and that we should have a university that is accessible to all citizens. But, Mr President, it is perhaps not surprising that the Social Democrats are raising obvious parts of the welfare system, which all parties are behind, instead of talking about the countless examples of waste that Social Democrats are guilty of year after year, both from government, regions and municipalities. We must take responsibility, ask ourselves by what right and lower the tax.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-1036	Mr President, I would like to I would like to inform the honourable Member, Joar Forssell, that the January agreement contains an important element of several important things: we shall have a tax investigation, a review of the tax system, whose focus is on reducing disparities and increasing equality. And yes, sometimes it is wasted in the common sector. I think of New Karolinska every time this is mentioned – this farce that is going on without the involvement of social democrats. I'd also like to recommend an evening reading for you. Read Bengt Westerberg's debate article in Aftonbladet today! He yearns for social liberalism. So do I.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-1039	Mr President, I would like to I will enjoy, as I said in my speech earlier, contentment, perhaps a little giggling, when Mr Persson votes to abolish the military tax here a little later in his term of office. I can see that the Social Democrats in the Stockholm County Council, as it was then called, have been for virtually everything with the New Karolinska Hospital, although the Social Democratic propaganda machine has allowed other things to apply. Of course, like many others in my party, I am a social liberal. This means that you want there to be a basic safety net but that the intervention in the individual's freedom, for example on the economic level, should be as small as possible. This means that we should have as little tax as possible while still being able to fund public school, care for people who have heart attacks and other things that all parties in this House are behind. But it also means being influenced by research. I can tell Mr Persson, Mr President, about the Financial Doctor Jacob Lundberg's report of last year, in which, with the support of OECD figures, he can very clearly show that with reduced taxes in Sweden we can get more tax crowns. The fact that more people are working, that more people are entrepreneurs and that more people become more productive creates more value and makes the cake simply ferment and grow larger. That is not surprising, Mr President. This has been demonstrated by economists for a very long time. But now there is fresh research that is at the heart of it. Of course, it is both right and right and good to reduce the tax, as the Social Democrats will do here a little later.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-1044	Mr President, I would like to The major tax reform of the 1990s, which resulted in a substantial reduction in marginal taxes, envisaged a dynamic effect precisely on what Mr Forssell is talking about. However, when evaluating and analysing the reform, it can be seen that it did not exist. There was no dynamic effect. It is a myth that labour intensity increases and income rises if taxes are reduced. I believe that one of the best ways to achieve growth in the economy and a good economic activity is to have a good distribution policy so that demand is spread among people. I think that's good. Then, Mr President, I would like to say kindly to Joar For s sell: Liberalism is a fragile plant that thrives best in the mirage of a strong social democracy.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-1047	Mr President, I would like to Rarely has the need for a tax debate been greater than at present. I believe that this is a good thing and that a new tax reform must be introduced. We cannot have a tax system like today, which is rigged for the richest. Instead, we need a tax system for ordinary people based on equality. Unfortunately, this will not happen with the 73-point gang, nor with the conservative bloc, which wants to go back in time. In recent decades, Sweden has gone from being one of the countries whose tax systems are most favourable to having the least redistributive tax system among the EU's core countries. Belief in market forces has been stronger than the desire for political responsibility. As long as the tax system is rigged in this way, inequality will also increase. We believe that there is a need for a substantial change in taxation so that we can achieve a redistribution of income tax and greater economic equality, a shift in taxation in which we increase taxes on capital income and wealth and lower taxes on low and middle income earners. We believe that we need to develop the tax system so that growing capital income is not concentrated in a few hands, but that we are levelling out inequalities and, at the same time, securing the funding of welfare. We should not abandon our welfare commitments, on the contrary. Welfare needs to be strengthened in order to provide all people with good health care and education, good growing-up conditions and a safe old age. Mr President, I would like to Should the wealthy contribute more to welfare? Some day ago, the OECD asked people in 21 countries. The OECD countries have among the most advanced welfare systems in the world, but despite this, the majority answered yes in each of the countries included in the survey. They wanted their governments to tax the rich harder to redistribute the money to those who are worse off. The support was particularly high among older people and low income earners, but the majority of high income earners also supported such a welfare line. Many live with the fear of losing everything, and women are overrepresented among those who worry. Many times it is difficult to trust whether one should receive sufficient support from the public in the event of illness or unemployment. At the same time, the rich are pulling away. Mr President, I would like to It is therefore self-evident that Sweden should also become more equal, and then the rich must pay their share. There is a need for a strategy based on solidarity, long-termism and a clear responsibility for the state to ensure that basic public services and general welfare exist throughout the country. It is clear that welfare needs more resources and fewer job tax deductions. Progressive and just changes are needed with a focus that clearly improves our common welfare and that concretely improves the lives of all those people who need or will need to benefit from our welfare. If we are to build an economy for all, we must also redistribute power and money with a fair tax system. Unfortunately, this ambition is not included in the 73 point programme, and it is regrettable.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-1054	Mr President, I would like to The tax system must be seen as fair and stimulate work and entrepreneurship. The simplicity and transparency of the tax system are crucial to its legitimacy. It is therefore important that people are aware of how much they pay in taxes and what the money is used for. People are affected by all taxes, not just direct taxes. Nevertheless, knowledge of indirect taxes such as VAT and social security contributions is limited. The employer's contribution, which is partly a pure tax, is particularly confusing. Today, almost as much of public sector revenue comes from employers' contributions as from direct taxes on labour. Given that it can be done in a way that does not entail a significant increase in the administrative burden on companies, it would have been desirable for the employer's contribution to be accounted for in the control task. This would help to make employers' contributions visible, including to workers. Mr President, I would like to Information on the tax system needs to be improved. According to us, therefore, the Board of Financial Control should be tasked with investigating how the tax system can become more transparent in order to improve knowledge of the tax system and strengthen its legitimacy. Deductions corresponding to the job tax credit are currently used in a large number of countries to increase employment and profitability at work. Job tax deductions are evaluated in broad international research literature and have a clear positive impact on employment. The tax credit also facilitates entry into the labour market and is very favourable for women's employment, for example. Research shows that more information on job tax deductions can further strengthen the positive employment effect. The Swedish National Audit Office has therefore advised the Government to instruct the Swedish Tax Agency to increase information about the job tax deduction, especially in view of the fact that those who have the least knowledge of the deduction are also those who are most affected. Sweden's marginal taxes are still among the highest, and more needs to be done to reduce the tax burden. Information on tax levels and changes is important in order to achieve transparency and understanding of our tax system. We want the Swedish Tax Agency to be given a special task to inform the public about the size of the job tax deduction at the respective income level and its impact on the total taxation of labour income. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, you should do the right thing. Those who exploit our systems of cheating and abuse take the right to live at the expense of others. That can never be accepted, whether it be those who flee taxes or those who receive subsidies to which they are not entitled. Anticipating tax evasion and aggressive tax planning is crucial because tens of billions of dollars of tax that should have been paid on international transactions disappear each year, according to the Swedish Tax Agency. Therefore, the Tax Agency's efforts to combat tax evasion should be strengthened. A priority task for the Swedish Tax Agency is to identify new countries that are used for tax evasion. Mr President, I would like to It is all too often that the application of tax rules is changed overnight without it being announced. This is done by the Swedish Tax Agency reinterpreting existing rules. Companies and private individuals are affected by tax decisions that they could never have anticipated. When the Tax Agency goes back in time and changes its decisions or applies new interpretations to previous circumstances, the result is many times large tax debts. The predictability and legitimacy of the tax system are crucial for our tax revenues and thus for maintaining our welfare. Decisions of the type mentioned just now, based on changes in the interpretation of tax rules but where no new circumstances have emerged in the individual case, we think we should be limited. Households and businesses must be able to reasonably anticipate their taxation. The government should therefore examine the possibility of restricting such application. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, of course, I support all our reservations, but for reasons of time, I am only in favour of reservation No 1.
i-SeJVtdQEAoq3vz281vwMWt	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 19 in the report of the Committee on Taxation 14. Sweden is a country with a comprehensive and well-developed welfare sector that depends on what taxes we pay, how high taxes are and how taxes are paid into the public sector. It is of central importance that all citizens of Sweden have confidence in the tax system and that it is based on sufficient transparency for citizens to also have confidence that the money will end up in the intended place. The system also needs to have a well-coordinated structure with a regulatory framework that is perceived as motivating. This in turn requires ongoing work to improve and simplify the tax system. This is particularly important for all small businesses in the country. At the same time, there is also a need for a balance between service and simplification for businesses on the one hand and the prevention of tax offences on the other. Mr President, I would like to We Swedish democrats believe that the Swedish Tax Agency needs to develop its handling of population records, not least in light of the very extensive immigration that has taken place in Sweden where the number of individuals who have been registered and registered incorrectly has gradually increased. For example, there are problems with the unlikely number of people to sign up at the same address. We have also seen examples of people having several different identities and different social security numbers with all the possibilities for crime that it offers. Such things lay the foundation for a growing shadow society with increased crime and cemented exclusion as a result. We Swedish democrats value further developing the tax procedure to meet these needs of both industry and the judiciary. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's citizens need to have a high level of confidence in the tax system if we want to maintain the welfare services we are offering today. This does not just address the question of how the regulatory framework as such is constructed. Equally important is that citizens are actually given the best possible information about the taxes they pay. If taxes are not declared transparently, this lack of information leads to a democratic deficit, which in itself can lead to mistrust of the system and tax evasion. That is why transparency in the system is extremely important. The greater the degree of transparency we have in the tax system, the higher the reliability and acceptance of the system will be. Mr President, I would like to The development of industry depends on many factors: education, investment, access to raw materials, etc. But tax policy also plays an important role in business opportunities. Export companies are central to the Swedish economy and the possibility to finance the public sector with welfare and security. The tax agreements that Sweden has with other countries also put us in competition with countries whose agreements may confer unilateral competitive advantages on the international market. Therefore, it is important that we continuously work to analyse how the Swedish tax agreements stand in competition with other countries, not only to prevent tax evasion and tax evasion, but also to ensure the conditions for maintaining and developing the competitiveness of the Swedish export industry.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-1070	Mr President, I would like to It is important that taxes are designed to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish companies and that the Swedish Tax Agency collects the taxes decided by the Riksdag. Taxes must be designed so that people dare to take risks and start businesses. Taxes will contribute to growth and development throughout the country, facilitate job creation and entrepreneurship and stimulate green tax exchange. Taxes must be predictable, legally secure and long-term. The threshold for small-scale entrepreneurship needs to be reduced through regulatory simplification and lower taxes. The Government should therefore set up an investigation to highlight the handling of entrepreneurship by the Tax Agency and other authorities. Mr President, I would like to Sweden uses preliminary tax as a model for collecting taxes from companies, which means that start-ups must disclose the expected profit for the first year in connection with start-ups. It is of course a very difficult guess when the business has not started. Many miscalculations are made, and not least, revenue and expenditure are often distributed very differently over the year. This means that the first year of the start-up will already the first month receive an invoice from the Swedish Tax Agency on the expected monthly income regardless of whether the company earned a krona or not. If the entrepreneur does not pay, the requirement for the reconciliation of the tax account goes to Kronofogden, and then the administrative fee of Kronofogden must also be paid. While all companies in Sweden link the invoice to an effort, a work, the Swedish Tax Agency's requirement for preliminary tax is completely disconnected from actual revenue. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party wants it to be investigated how the Tax Agency and other government authorities can be deprived of the right to impose high amounts on companies or persons when someone has missed a payment without the authority first reminding and informing the interested parties of the error in question. Mr President, I would like to I want to reconnect to my introduction that tax rules must be designed so that Swedish companies' competitiveness is strengthened and that the rules are designed so that people dare to take risks and start businesses. With regard to the risk, to dare, and proportionality, the rules of representation are a major problem. It is a regulatory framework that has come to be applied very rigorously. It can have major unexpected consequences in the private economy for managers and directors of small companies. It also risks having a negative impact on the possibility of recruiting board members. An investigation has been set up to look at parts of the regulatory framework. The Center Party believes that representative responsibility needs to be fully investigated. Mr President, I would like to In order to maintain confidence in the tax system, it is essential to work continuously to simplify for taxpayers. There is a risk that complex and time-consuming tax administration and regulation will become an increasingly heavy burden on smaller organisations and companies. Among other things, it is important to ensure that non-profit organisations and smaller companies are not disproportionately affected. Unfortunately, many examples of companies or organisations that have been affected disproportionately by tax legislation or its interpretation are. The system of human resources has changed a few times since it was introduced about ten years ago. The system has been extended, last year. For example, all persons living under the same roof where economic activity is carried out are included. These family members, regardless of age, need to register if they contribute in any way to the activity. The Center Party wants the effectiveness of the ten-year-old system of human resources to be evaluated. The regulatory burden must be reduced. Here new technologies can pave the way for a simpler system. It is important for small business owners who want to develop and invest in their business and thus contribute to increasing tax revenues. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party in the report, but I only support reservations 5 and 16.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-1079	Mr President, I would like to Tax evasion and tax crime are a major social problem, evading large resources from society and damaging free and fair competition. It also increases inequality when tax collection is applied to other groups with lower incomes. It is also serious because it reduces cohesion and trust and trust in our society and our authorities. Recently, there have been several revelations about tax evasion and money laundering linked to Danske Bank, Nordea and SEB. Before that, there were revelations in the form of Panama Papers, Lux Leaks and Swiss Leaks, which have shown that the problems are extensive even in Sweden. We see high-income people hiding money, companies that plan their taxes and audit firms and banks that help. Now it has also become clear that Swedbank may have been used for extensive and systematic money laundering for nearly a decade. A total of at least SEK 40 billion is estimated to have been channelled between suspicious accounts in Swedbank and Danske Bank in the Baltics. These have been corporate customers who lack visible activity, have hidden owners or are represented by suspected goalkeepers. One of several examples is a Riga company that has received money from several letterbox companies in the UK. When journalists look for the company's address, they end up in a residential building with 60 other companies. One of the companies that send money also displays typical warning flags, such as famous goalkeepers, incomplete annual reports and shared address. It is also characteristic of other money laundering crimes. Mr President, I would like to In comparison with other countries, Sweden also has favourable tax laws for companies and wealthy people. Today, Sweden is probably the only industrial country that has neither property tax, inheritance tax, or gift tax, nor property tax that is linked to the value of the property. In addition, the corporate tax rate has been reduced for several years and is currently below the OECD average. All in all, this gives rise to an unreasonable situation in tax policy. We see time and again constructions and arrangements to avoid paying taxes. The letterbox companies are a clear example. For payment, the rich start one or more letterbox companies and run with board members, shareholders and other goalkeepers. The new letterbox company may in turn own other letterbox companies in other multiple tax havens. So the only purpose of going through such a company is either to hide something, to escape something or to bypass something. Mr President, I would like to There was a raid today at Swedbank in Sumpan. It says a lot about how far this has gone. Inequality is not just economic or social but, to say the least, legal. Here we have a greedy economic elite who believes that they are above the rest of society and our common democracy. But it is not convicted for its crimes. Every year the world's financial elite blow ordinary taxpayers at thousands of billions of dollars. In Sweden it is about money that could have financed our schools and our common health care. It is money that could have financed better pensions and humane reception of refugees. But now, with the help of the banks and advanced setup, the money is tripping off to the financial elite and its luxury consumption. This undermines our welfare and democracy. This greed must end. That is why I would like to support the Left Party's reservation 6 in the report.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-1088	Mr President, I would like to This week millions of Swedes have been paid into their accounts. Most of them got paid on Monday. A lot of people get it today. People have worked hard for their wages. And they are more than deserving of the income they receive. Now the money will be enough for everything necessary in life, for accommodation, for food, for other bills and hopefully for some pleasure and vacation. There's a lot of spending. But many people forget the greatest expense they have, the one we have debated here today. There are even studies showing that many people do not know how much a tax actually is and how much tax is paid for them. Let me take just one example. Otherwise, there will be a lot of numbers. This week, an average of $25,000 is given to the monthly wage earner. This varies from municipality to municipality, but it averages 23 000 SEK. But for the employer the cost is significantly higher than SEK 30 000. The employer, who has to pay social security contributions and taxes, has a cost of over $35,000 each month. Of these, 23 000 are credited to the employee's account. Thus, more than SEK 16 000 disappears in taxes and charges in between. And many do not even know that, Mr President. The Christian Democrats believe that the tax burden must be made visible. Public employers must lead the way by more clearly reporting all taxes and contributions on the wage statement. It is only right to the citizens, who are the real owners of the money. Mr President, I would like to The purpose of taxes is to finance welfare: school, health care and long-term care. Another aim is to steer economic development in a social and ecological direction. At the same time, we know that taxes impair the functioning of the economy, and sometimes they lead to unhealthy economic behaviour. Taking in taxes is basically taking someone else's property. It is therefore extremely important that taxes are used effectively and for what they are intended for. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats know where the resources for welfare come from. It is all those who work who create wealth and well-being, and work is created by companies. Above all, it is small and medium-sized enterprises that create jobs. Since 1990, four out of five jobs have been created in these companies. It is therefore extremely important that policies make things easier for these companies and ensure that the conditions for them to operate are good, and there are some things to do here. One area concerns legal certainty for the entrepreneur. When an entrepreneur has to pay extra tax for some reason, we in Sweden today have a system that says that the tax must be paid before the matter is finally settled in the administrative court. An entrepreneur can therefore first have his or her home foreclosed and later acquitted in a higher court. The IRS, like everyone else, does not have to wait for a final judgment. Just get the money. This is wrong. The existing deferral rules are limited and are applied far too restrictively. I and the Christian Democrats want the deferral rules to be reviewed. We believe that there must be exceptional reasons for not granting respite. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I would like to say that I naturally support all the Christian Democratic reservations, but for reasons of time, I only call for reservation 3.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-1097	Mr President, I would like to When you get into the debate at this late hour, I think you can devote yourself to giving some praise to previous speakers. We have just heard the Christian Democrats' Hampus Hagman very exemplaryly report on the problems of fairness and legal certainty in the case of companies that have to pay extra taxes or, in any case, the Swedish Tax Agency believes need to pay extra taxes. He also talked about how the deferral rules are being used far too restrictively. It is clear that the Swedish Tax Agency, in its way of acting, does not see itself sufficiently as a service body. Basically, Mr President, it must be the case that the tax system and the tax authorities should operate in a way that makes it easy and does not feel so burdensome to enter into business, create value, be an entrepreneur and be productive. If an entrepreneur disputes that he or she should pay more taxes, it should be that one simply waits until the matter has been settled out of court before the money is collected. I think that the Christian Democrats in their previous speech really put their foot in the right place. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to commend the Left Party. It is not every day that a Liberal pays tribute to the Left Party. Left-wing partyist Tony Haddou earlier told us from the speaker's chair that it is wrong when people try to evade taxes and commit tax crimes. I think that the Left Party and Mr Haddou are absolutely right in that. Tax offences shall be prosecuted. A fair tax system means that entrepreneurs should know that the Tax Agency wants you well and is an authority that you can trust and that will do everything in your power to help the individual entrepreneur. It also means that all citizens of the country should know that we who stand for political governance ensure that everyone pays the tax to be paid and that those who want to finance, for example, crime through economic cheating and tax crimes suffer the full force of the law. Tax offences should simply be prosecuted. Good, Tony Haddou, I say. There is, however, a problem, Mr President, with the reasoning of the Left Party. The Liberals have, through a motion, put a proposal in another committee, the Foreign Affairs Committee, to introduce a so-called Magnitsky law in Sweden. This would mean attacking people who, among other things, have cheated with money. The Left Party has not joined this. Nor does the Left want to abolish the veto that individual countries in the European Union have to introduce a Magnitsky law at European level. The Left Party wants countries such as Hungary to be able to veto the introduction of such a law that could stop the economic cheating described by the Left Partyist here in the pulpit. It is clear that this sounds false when, on the one hand, we stand here today and say that we want to prosecute tax offences and financial fraud and, on the other hand, we will say something quite different in another committee and with another in just a few weeks' time when the motion is to be discussed. In addition, the European elections will continue to pursue policies that prevent tax offences from being prosecuted later on. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to highlight one point raised earlier by the Center Party in the debate. There was talk of human resources and how the system of human resources needs to be evaluated. In fact, the Tax Committee has already evaluated human resources. Having participated in the evaluation, my conclusion is that the human resources league in certain sectors and on certain occasions, together with other systems, is indeed too heavy a burden for Swedish companies. They do not only go under high taxes but also under tough, difficult and bureaucratic regulations. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that Sweden needs not only reduced taxes but also simpler, more legally secure and fairer systems. Then the entrepreneur who is good at baking bread or who has a new technological innovation in the industry or who is good at brewing beer can run his company and know that it is easy to declare, know that it is easy to be an entrepreneur and that you can trust the Tax Agency. You get the help you need and you never have to feel hunted. If things go wrong, it'll work out. That is how Sweden should be. Mr President, I would like to I would like to express my support for the only reservation that the Liberals have in this debate.
i-bb1d197b5ad64b3f-1111	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. What we are discussing today is the Tax Procedure Act and the National Accounts Act. The Tax Procedure Act was introduced on 1 January 2012 and replaced a dozen laws that were previously divided into. The Population Accounts Act was granted to us on 1 July 1991. The Population Accounts Act is about determining people's residences and also about recording data such as identity, family and other relationships. What we are dealing with today is a number of motions that Members of Parliament have presented during the general period of exercise. This was an area that interested many; there were many exercises. I do not have time to go through all the proposals and our attitudes to this area and what needs to be done. I was going to make a few strikes, though. The first area I want to mention is something that previous speakers have raised. It concerns tax errors, and it includes tax fraud, which is pure crime. It is difficult to calculate the amount of tax error, i.e. how much falls away from what should have been paid. But the IRS works a lot on this issue and comes with their calculations as close as you can get. Of course, it is important that this tax error is limited and minimised as much as possible. Of course the tax is due. I don't want tax evasion to pay off. Some are mistakes. You have to correct them as far as you can. Unfortunately, however, much is pure crime. It is estimated that the tax error is around 130 billion each year. This sum contains a large proportion of crime, not least tax evasion, which involves the transfer of assets from the country through criminal tax planning. Some things happen in the country, but there's a lot going on. Of course, not all tax planning is illegal, but loopholes are found in the system. Then there's a lot that's a total violation of the law. However, it may be difficult to find the guilty and prove the crimes. SEK 130 billion is a lot of money. Imagine what that money could do in our welfare! It is money that should be paid in, but it is largely criminals who seize it. Many times it is high income earners and large rich companies. So it is people and companies that already have a great deal of money and still take on even more through tax evasion. That's why it's very urgent that we get this tax money in. A large part of this is so-called undeclared work. They often go hand in hand with other tax crimes. The fact that you have a undeclared workforce means that taxes and contributions are not paid. This also affects workers; they do not have the right to insurance, they do not spend money on pensions and so on. We really need to fight that part. There is a great deal of work going on, but we must constantly expand that work and monitor how the regulatory framework works in practice, because there is still a lot of money that is disappearing. We also have international cooperation. Much of the money is transferred to other countries, not least to tax havens where lower taxes are paid. That is why we have cooperation with the UN, with the OECD and within the EU. This is something the government does a lot of work on. To sum up, this is an area where there is infinite potential. We can try to get this money in and thus improve our welfare. At the same time, setting them up as tax fraud will benefit serious business, that is to say those who do not cheat. A number of years ago, I heard that for every dollar spent on combating tax evasion, SEK 3 is being returned. This means that it is important that we invest in the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Economic Crimes Agency, the police and all other authorities that can combat this, because it will be an investment. It's not a cost, but we get this money back when you reinforce efforts. Another impact that I would like to make concerns border barriers between different countries. We have border barriers between the Nordic countries. They are especially felt by us as we live next to Norway, Finland and Denmark. There is cross-border cooperation within the Nordic Council of Ministers. It works to remove border barriers but also to prevent new ones from emerging. It may be that new regulations do not turn out to be compatible between the different countries. As a result, new border barriers have arisen. Border barriers make it difficult for people to commute across the border and work on the other side. They also hamper trade. Brexit can be a big problem, not least for Swedish companies. It is also about the possibility of moving across borders. I'm from Malmö. There's the Öresund region. We have managed to remove many border barriers, but we have to keep working, because new ones are emerging. There are also border barriers that are sluggish to overcome. This means a lot of money and bnp growth. But of course, personal freedom for people also increases when you can choose where you want to work, where you want to study and where you want to live. There are also new relationships and new families are formed across borders. It is therefore important that we facilitate this in the border regions. We are working intensively on this, but we need to do much more. I would also like to mention the population accounts, which are included in this report. New rules came as late as 2018, and they represent progress. You can unregister false identities that people have simply lied together. You can even come to inspection visits where you think someone lives or where someone claims to be living to make sure that's true. It has also reintroduced the civil record crime, so that we now have a criminal liability when incorrect information is provided. There is work going on in both the Government Office and the Swedish Tax Agency in this regard. We assume that progress is being followed, because there have been problems with people who, for example, write themselves at another address without asking the resident. Sometimes the person who lives there doesn't even know that someone's written there. Finally, I would like to raise the issue of coordination numbers. These are for newly arrived immigrants who have not had time to get a social security number; they only get one later. There's a register there today. This can help to verify the accuracy of the data. There is also the possibility to request coordination numbers from government agencies and education providers to check that everything is right. Now there has been a proposal from the Swedish Tax Agency, among other things, that all new arrivals should receive coordination numbers. It could be an advantage both for individuals, so that they can be registered in different systems, and for the whole of society, so that you know who is who. The proposal is being prepared at the Government Office. Much is therefore happening in this area, but we must constantly continue to work to monitor developments and, if necessary, improve the regulatory framework.
