i-10f45ba5c67bdb2e-0	I request that Your Majesty declare the Parliamentary Session open.
i-10f45ba5c67bdb2e-1	Mr President, I would like to Honour the Members! 30 years ago I stood here in Parliament's Chamber to explain the Parliamentary Session 1989/ 90 opened. It was October 3rd, and we still did not know what was going to happen just over a month later. The fall of the Berlin Wall in November 1989 was the culmination of a development that fundamentally changed Europe and the world. It was a time of tension between the superpowers and of closer European cooperation. On the Swedish political agenda was at this time the focus and scope of the defence, Sweden's future energy supply and environmental problems such as soil acidification, greenhouse effect and impact on the ozone layer. Today, three decades later, progress has been made in many respects. But in other areas, the challenges have grown. Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! The parliamentary protocols tell us about our time for future generations – about our ideals and values and about our challenges and our ability to meet them. 100 years ago, the Swedish Parliament made a series of decisive decisions that together led to equal and universal suffrage. The anniversary reminds us of the importance of thinking and acting in the long term for the good of our country. The future of Sweden is shaped not only in this House but equally by the development of our world around us. But the decisions that are made here still affect everyone in our country, not infrequently generations to come. They are threads in the fabric that constitutes our future. How do we create security, security and community for all who live here? How do we ensure that Sweden is at the forefront of research and development? How do we build a sustainable future for future generations? These are major and difficult issues that citizens have given you the confidence to deal with. I wish you, elected representatives of the people of Sweden, the power, courage and wisdom of your important work. I hereby declare open the 2019/ 20 Parliamentary Session.
i-10f45ba5c67bdb2e-8	I'm ordering the Prime Minister to make his government statement.
i-UHcMreiefYTHj21PqnfYVn	Your Majestys! Your Royal Highnesses! Mr President, I would like to Honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament! Dear Hearers! Sweden is our place on earth. The generations before us have built one of the richest and most just countries in the world. Our task is to equip the country more strongly to cope with the transition to a new era. We will leave a more sustainable, safe and equal country to our children. Our country, characterised by beautiful nature, openness and a hard-working population, has enormous opportunities. But only together can we make the most of the potential that exists in Sweden. The problems we have we face together and not each one separately. Global warming, healthcare queues, violent crime, school inequality and a more divided society are common problems. We can and will solve them together. Around the world, political forces that stand for intolerance, solitude and simple answers to difficult societal problems are growing. Sweden has chosen another route. We stand up for the values that have built Sweden strongly: community, equality, openness and equality between women and men. In an uncertain world, our foreign policy must safeguard our country's security. Sweden's security policy line is solid. Stability and security in northern Europe benefit from our military freedom of alliance. Through dialogue and cooperation within the framework of the European Union, Sweden contributes bilaterally and through international organisations to common security. Our country's defence capabilities continue to be strengthened. In 2020, a defence policy proposal will be based on the Defence Committee's reports. There is now broad support for funding. The transatlantic link is being safeguarded, and our defence cooperation deepens, not least around the Baltic Sea. It will be faster to give and receive operational support within the Finnish-Swedish cooperation. Safety in Sweden's immediate area has deteriorated. Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and intervention in Ukraine are clear violations of international law and the European security regime. We stand up for EU sanctions while we have contacts and dialogue with Russia and Russian society. Sweden is facing new forms of threats and challenges. Implementation of the national security strategy continues. Next year, a national cybersecurity centre will be set up. Membership of the European Union is a foundation for Sweden and an obvious part of our national European and global work. A new legislative period is now under way in the EU. Sweden is working for an effective Union, for a citizens' Europe that supports the creation of more jobs with a level playing field, an EU that contributes to security and is a leader in environmental and climate work. We will work to maintain respect for the Union's values. Increased risks of a full-scale trade war underline the need for Sweden to be a voice for free, sustainable and fair trade. World trade should be based on order and rules, not on the right of the strong. Sweden will continue to work to ensure that the UK withdraws from the EU in an orderly manner. There is a readiness to deal with a non-contracted exit. A British withdrawal places increased demands on active and offensive Swedish action in the EU. The fight against terrorism is global. It will be conducted here at home and in close cooperation with other countries in Europe and the world. The fight shall take place within the framework of the principles of the rule of law. A review of criminal law to combat terrorism is being carried out. It will be a criminal offence to associate with terrorist organisations. We see that criminals and terrorists are trying to find new ways to channel money to support their activities. This will be met by further strengthening of legislation. In cooperation with other Member States, Sweden is working towards a common asylum system in the EU where Member States share responsibility for people on the run with solidarity. Swedish migration policy must be legally secure, effective and humane. Policy must be broadly based. A parliamentary committee has been commissioned by the government to make proposals for a long-term sustainable migration policy. The right of asylum must be protected. The fact that alternative people in need of protection and refugees have the same right to be reunited in Sweden with children, partners or parents is a humanitarian reform that also contributes to integration. It will be possible for the Migration Agency to deal with asylum applications from people from so-called safe countries of origin again quickly. An independent review of the medical age assessment methodology shall be carried out. A successful fight against war, terrorism and global warming is required in order for fewer to be forced to flee. Our generation is the first to eradicate poverty in the world and the last to stop global warming. Sweden will be at the forefront of Agenda 2030. The focus on democracy in aid is strengthened. Sweden promotes sexual and reproductive health and rights globally and thereby access to safe abortions. It is an expression of our feminist foreign policy. Sweden stands by the high ambitions for climate funding. And the government's work on the Global Deal, for fair conditions in the labour market, continues. Mr President, I would like to This is how Mikael Wiehe sings: From Ale stones to northern Lapland from Bohus rocks to Gotland Raukar The country belongs to you and me We will keep our country together, and there will be conditions to live a good life throughout Sweden. A greater redistribution based on the different conditions that exist in our country must be in place from the turn of the year. Whether you live in Vellinge or Vilhelmina, you should have the same right to home help; the distances in the municipality should not determine. As part of the green tax shift, 850 000 people, mainly in Norrland and north-west Svealand, receive a tax reduction to compensate for long distances and to facilitate living in these parts of the country.
i-10f45ba5c67bdb2e-34	Service offices, where several government agencies provide services to citizens, are an effective way for the state to be present in more places. New service offices will therefore be opened. Already I can tell you that among other places are the following service offices: Storuman, Torsby, Vansbro and Åsele. The ambitious climate commitments of Swedish industry impress. Public engagement, innovative companies and tough climate demands lead to results. New environmental technologies and innovations give us better opportunities to export products and services that the world wants. That's how new jobs are created. The daily goods trade, the mining and minerals industry and the cement industry are examples of industries that have developed road maps to become fossil-free. An exciting and world-unique development of carbon-free steel production is now underway in Luleå. Sweden's raw material resources should be used more efficiently and sustainably. Review processes and regulations need to be reviewed to take account of both societal and local environmental impacts when testing a project. Work with the National Innovation Council continues. The Government launches four strategic collaboration programmes for its term of office and begins work on a new research proposal. Through simpler rules, more people around the country can take the chance to start a business. The requirement for share capital is reduced. Swedish nature, Swedish food and Swedish attractions belong to our country's large assets. Swedish tourism is doing well. Since the turn of the millennium, employment in the tourism industry has increased by just over 40 000 people. A national strategy will strengthen the tourism industry as an important engine for jobs and growth throughout the country. Swedish farmers produce world-class goods. Through continued investments in the food strategy and a strong farmer's package, Swedish agriculture's competitiveness is strengthened. By pollinating plants, bees play an important role. Now it's under threat. Measures are needed to improve the habitat of bees. Sustainable and growing forestry contributes to jobs, growth and climate benefits. With living forests and diverse nature, biodiversity can increase. Work on the national forest programme continues, and the government is working to strengthen ownership and sustainability in Swedish forests. The forest owned by the state must be managed in a sustainable manner. The conditions for green industries are high on the government's agenda. A functioning housing market is a prerequisite both for people's security and for a dynamic labour market. Last year the largest number of apartments was completed since 1973. At the same time, 240 municipalities report a deficit of housing. The Government intends to gather all actors in the housing market around the common interest to ensure a continued high build-up rate. The investment support is concentrated and streamlined and is directed towards student housing and rental rights with reasonable rents throughout the country. We simplify the building rules and review the rental system. Claims for climate declarations and more construction in wood contribute to society's transformation. The beach shelter is being fundamentally redesigned. Increased differentiation should take into account that access to lakes and beaches varies across the country, as well as population density and exploitation pressures. The national plan for infrastructure with investment of 700 billion in roads and railways across the country is to be completed. The government is improving road maintenance and is now making the biggest railway investment in modern times. New high-speed rails will be built. It will be easier to book a trip abroad by train, and one should be able to take the night train to several European cities. Emissions from aviation should be reduced. Expanding the digital infrastructure is an important part of the efforts to make the whole country grow and for public services to benefit the whole population. The Energy Agreement provides the basis for Sweden to continue to have a robust energy system and electricity at reasonable prices. The capacity to transmit electricity will be improved to meet growing needs. The importance of renewable energy sources is now growing rapidly. Wind power contributes with an increasing share of the energy supply. There is also a PV revolution in Sweden. The support for solar cells has made it easier and cheaper for homeowners around the country to produce their own electricity. More and more electric cars are now rolling on Swedish roads. The charging infrastructure shall be expanded to facilitate the electrification of the fleet of vehicles. Mr President, I would like to During their lifetime in Sweden, a person who has turned 100 has seen democracy take root, industrial society is developing, gender equality is improving women's conditions and the transition to a knowledge society is changing the country. Now we are again faced with major changes. July this year was the warmest measured. Greta Thunberg has become a whole generation of voices when she demands that we listen to the research and take action. Global warming threatens to fundamentally change the conditions for human life on earth. We need to adapt to the changes that are already taking place. In two weeks, these issues will be the focus of the UN climate summit in New York. At the same time, Sweden will create and develop jobs and welfare in a tough global competition and in rapid technology development. No one should be left behind in the new community building. Our country will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. It will affect all parts of society and permeate politics. A climate action plan shall be decided. A strong green tax shift has begun and will increase in the coming years. Now also comes a Swedish state green bond. By 2045 Sweden will no longer have net greenhouse gas emissions. It will require major technological leaps. The industrial environment provides support to companies all the way from research and innovation projects to demonstration facilities and full scale production. We're going to make the transition, and we're going to do it the same way we used to: together. Our children will grow up in a daily life free of poisons. The government is pushing for a global agreement on chemicals, stricter rules in the EU and the necessary regulations at home. The Government will take further measures to reduce plastic use. The spread of microplastics shall be controlled. More disposable plastics should be removed. This year, for the first time, large parts of cod fishing in the Baltic Sea has had to be stopped urgently. The government listens to the scientists and will work for the cod to recover. We're going to hand over oceans with growing stocks of fish to our children. The seabeds shall be protected and eutrophication shall cease. Mr President, I would like to The international economy is now slowing down, and it is affecting the economy here at home. In the labour market we see a continued high employment rate but also recruitment problems, not least in welfare. The share of central government debt is at the same level as in 1977. A low debt gives us a strength if the economic cycle is further weakened, a strength that many countries lack. The government wants to use the scope for reform to get more people into work, more police officers, stronger welfare, better finances for pensioners and a powerful climate transition.
i-10f45ba5c67bdb2e-66	A bank tax will be introduced to finance defence efforts. The fight against tax evasion and tax evasion continues untiringly. When tax evasion is cross-border, the work against it must also be done. Pensioners have on average received SEK 1,600 more in their wallets per month compared to 2014. The strengthening of pensioners' finances is now continuing. Next year, the guarantee pension and the ceiling of the housing supplement for pensioners will be increased. The phasing out of the unjust pensioner's tax continues. Mr President, I would like to Equipping the population with knowledge is crucial for us to cope with the transformation of society. Sweden has had one of the most high-performance and equal school systems in the world. That's where we're going again. Today, 31 000 more people work in school than five years ago, children's groups in preschool have not been so small since 1992 and teachers' salaries have risen. We have laid the foundations for better knowledge. There are no shortcuts to raise knowledge in the Swedish school. There must be a focus on knowledge and study in every classroom. The possibility of getting support in smaller teaching groups will be reviewed, and high-performance students will be given better opportunities to reach further in their learning. Boys' school results require special attention. A national plan for safety and education at school will be developed and a mobile ban will be introduced in class time. For those schools that wish to introduce an opportunity to give grades from grade 4. The school should be a meeting place for students with different backgrounds. The government is taking the first steps towards a stop to establishment of independent primary and secondary schools with a confessional focus. The key to a strong knowledge school is more knowledgeable and competent teachers and more employees who can relieve teachers. Efforts are needed to meet the teacher shortage. The opportunities to study as a teacher in parallel with work at school are improved. More graduates should be able to change careers and become teachers. State aid for employing teachers' assistants is reinforced. The government will improve teacher training, and the attractiveness of the teaching profession will be increased. Proposals from the School Commission are being implemented. The government is starting work on establishing a professional programme for teachers and school leaders. In order to increase equivalence, State aid to schools with the toughest conditions is being strengthened. Further measures are needed to improve the school's ability to meet pupils with neuropsychiatric disabilities. While there are more than 100,000 job vacancies in Sweden, 350 000 people are unemployed. To overcome skills shortages, education needs to be more tailored to the needs of society. The knowledge boost continues and is expected to cover 93 000 state-funded training places throughout the country in 2020. Municipal adult education is developed as a basis for national and regional skills provision. The government invests in skills development and further education for people in the middle of working life. The university of applied sciences is being expanded, and steps are being taken to facilitate mobility between universities of applied sciences and universities of applied sciences. Skills development through short polytechnic courses should be facilitated. Efforts will be made to strengthen and develop distance training. Strengthening access to training places around the country makes it easier to continue studying and live throughout our country. In order for companies to recruit, a well-functioning labour market is needed. Effective job placement benefits both those seeking work and employers who need to employ. In order to make a better contribution to this, the Public Employment Service will be fundamentally reformed. As an important complement, a new system will be developed, where independent actors match and equip job seekers for the job vacancies. Regardless of the place of residence, a job seeker who needs support to find a job should be able to get it. The employment agency should be able to provide services while the reform work is ongoing. At local and regional level, there is great potential for effective work. Collaboration between Arbetsförmedlingen, municipalities and employers already results in local job tracks in different parts of Sweden. In order to avoid unnecessary redundancies in the event of temporary difficulties, State aid for short-term work is reinforced. It is faster and faster for people who are new in Sweden to find a job. An intensive year of language-intensive and professional interventions is introduced for newcomers who are deemed to be in a position to get into work within one year. The social orientation of new arrivals will be strengthened, and more focus will be placed on issues of gender equality and human rights. Support for asylum seekers who choose their own accommodation should be changed to reduce the problems in areas with socio-economic challenges. The emergence of a parallel society is countered by effective interaction between authorities and by police controls and measures against trafficking in human beings. Working life should not lead to premature elimination of women and men due to stress, bullying or work that damages or wears down the body. A zero vision shall apply to the death at work. The Swedish Work Environment Authority will propose measures to achieve this. More occupational safety and health inspectors are employed. The social partners have a major responsibility to reduce work-related ill health. The Government will closely monitor the work undertaken by the parties for healthier workplaces. Joakim Berg's lines of text from Kentsong Elite capture a feeling that many share: My family is full of heroes decades of torn hearts, tired leads their pride carried me here Through decades of labor, women and men have built our country's strength. Sweden is full of heroes. It is people who every day contribute to a stronger society through parenthood, studies, wage work, entrepreneurship and voluntary engagement. Mr President, I would like to A general welfare with high quality education, care and care for all is the most important redistributive force in our society. The Government appoints a Welfare Commission in which the state, the Swedish Municipalities and Landsting and employee organisations together will address the problems that we see in Swedish welfare. An increasing proportion of older people face new challenges for their well-being. Caring and caring is one of society's most important tasks. A permanent care contact in the care of the elderly increases continuity and security. Employees in welfare need to have a better working environment, and their status needs to be increased. Nurses will be given a protected professional title and better working conditions. The number of involuntary part-time work in welfare is decreasing. Work continues to ensure that full-time is a right. Welfare technology should facilitate the working environment and increase quality, not increase stress. The disability policy and the act on support and service for certain disabled people are to be developed. Personal assistance shall be of high quality and legal certainty. The right to breathing and probe-feeding assistance shall be ensured. Everyone who is entitled to support should receive it. Sweden must have health insurance that is safe, legally secure and understandable and that enjoys a high level of confidence among the population. Cooperation between the authorities must be improved, and the regulatory framework must be designed to provide everyone with the support and compensation to which they are entitled. Sweden should have world-class healthcare, and it should be there for everyone. This is why the government is pushing for a safer, more accessible and more equal health care. We shall be proud of the high quality of Swedish healthcare. Every day, healthcare professionals save the lives of acute and severely ill patients. At the same time, not least primary care needs to be further developed. It has unique conditions to see the whole need for care and promote good health. The government will equip it with close care. In order to improve the continuity of health care, the right to permanent medical contact should be ensured. Patient contracts should provide both the patient and the healthcare provider with an overview of all planned healthcare visits. Mental ill-health is one of today's major social problems. Early intervention is important in reducing suffering and preventing minor problems from becoming serious. To make it easier to get help, a new form of care is being prepared for easier mental illness. Children's and young people's psychiatry should be reduced. Students' health should be protected. Mr President, I would like to The alarm came to the police at 9:58 a Monday morning. The woman at Ribersborg was 31 years old. She was shot dead on the street while she was out with her baby. The bottomless tragedy leaves no one in our country untouched. Violent crime is causing enormous suffering in society. Boys are lured into a criminal career that ends either with death or with a long prison sentence. Family members of victims are severely affected. The violence practised by gang criminals is a threat to people's security, to the sense of security in society and, ultimately, to the rule of law and democracy. The ruthlessness shown to the victims is despicable. Meeting this threat is one of the core tasks of the state. The fight against serious crime is long-term and will involve both successes and setbacks. But the goal is clear: we are going to force the violence back. The state can remove serious criminals from the street, but in order to stop the influx of young men into gang crime in the long term, the efforts of society as a whole are required. The police, in particular, point this out. The school, social services, local business and our peoples' movements have important roles to play. The municipalities are central to the prevention of crime. Work is under way to give municipalities statutory responsibility for this. The government makes it easier to decide on camera surveillance and facilitates police access to digital evidence and encrypted communication to identify and expose criminal activities. The pilot project with more rapid prosecution for some minor crimes is extended and extended to more parts of the country. The police need better opportunities to operate in border areas in order to combat cross-border crime. The possibility of camera surveillance with automatic recognition of vehicle types and registration plates shall be considered. The police are tasked with strengthening their work in combating the illegal trafficking of drugs, which finances much of the gang violence. The Crime Prevention Council is tasked with studying the drug market in Sweden for an updated knowledge situation. Everyone who buys drugs must be aware that the money from drugs supports criminal gangs and contributes to their crime. The violence of the far right and other ideologically motivated perpetrators must be taken very seriously. Rape and other sexual crimes must be combated. The government will propose further strengthened laws in this area. It is a strength that we have broad political agreement on continuing to strengthen the capacity of the rule of law. The government is now taking the lead in bringing together political decision-makers and other stakeholders to continue strengthening society in the fight against serious crime. Mr President, I would like to During its term of office, Sweden celebrates 100 years as a democracy. The democracy that we inherited from previous generations should be even stronger when we leave it. A strong public service combined with commercial media provides a diversity of independent media throughout the country. The elected representatives and journalists must be given greater protection in criminal matters against threats and hatred in order to fulfil their crucial tasks for democracy. An independent institution for the protection of human rights shall be established. Every child has the right to grow in curiosity and creativity. Cultural school's supposed to be all over the country. The contribution of people with time and work in the sports movement and civil society is central to young people's ability to get involved. In 112 days, the Convention on the Rights of the Child will become Swedish law. All children should be able to speak and have an opportunity to assert their rights. Parental legislation is reviewed to make it more gender neutral. It is part of the government's work to strengthen LGBTQ people's rights. Racism has no place in Sweden, and work on the national plan against racism continues. Sweden's national minorities and indigenous Sami must be protected. The hatred of Jews is found in our history, in far-right groups, in parts of the left and in Islamic environments. We see anti-Semitism in adults and children who have fled to Sweden from countries where Jewhat characterizes school education and government propaganda. The fight against anti-Semitism and the remembrance of the Holocaust are subjects at the international conference hosted by the government in Malmö next year. In Sweden we do not accept child marriage or oppression. Crimes committed with so-called honorary motives should receive more severe penalties, and a special child marriage crime is introduced. Work on introducing a special honorary crime continues. Children and young people should be able to receive greater support and assistance from social services without the consent or knowledge of guardians. Mr President, I would like to A little over six months have passed since the government was able to take office after a substantive political agreement on the budget and several policy areas between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals. Together, we take responsibility for taking advantage of the country's opportunities and solving today's social problems. Swedish politics is at a time of intense reform. A time together to equip Sweden stronger. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to report changes in the composition of the government. I have decided today on the following changes. Ylva Johansson and Margot Wallström have been dismissed as Minister of State. Ann Linde has been appointed Head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Minister of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also Anna Hallberg. Prime Minister and Head of the Ministry of Labour is Eva Nordmark.
