i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-13	Madam President, I would like I can't stop talking about municipal music school. That I got the chance to play an instrument, that society says culture is good. That the establishment sends that signal, that music is something you should be doing. That's such a good idea. ..................................................... Whoever says that is Max Martin. For two decades he has delivered hit songs that have achieved global success. It is an amazing achievement to do it once, but repeating it time and again for two decades is incomprehensiblely clever. Now Max Martin sets up a musical about his life's work in London, and it is of course expected to be a success. It started at the music school or cultural school for him, but it is of course also about the strong music life we have in Sweden. It is an ecology in which we, or rather we, give each other the strength to grow. I will not take on any honor to grow in music ecology myself, but I am delighted that so many others do. This is the case in many parts of Swedish cultural life. We have many skilled cultural creators in this country, and that is something we should be very proud of. Together they help each other grow and take their place, both in Sweden and globally. Madam President, I would like When you read about Max Martin, it almost seems that someone has thrown a hook into his life, into his world, that he is stuck on it and that he has since been drawn to another world that he did not know before. This is a story about Max Martin but also a story about the cultural school. But really it's a story of something much, much bigger. It is important for all of us to meet many different stories about what it is like to be a human being and how to live one's life at an early age. Culture has the ability to give such stories to people. More people need to feel what it's like to be thrown into life and that you are drawn out of a context that you are used to and drawn into something else that you didn't know existed, where you get to experience other worlds than the one that is natural to yourself in the very situation where you are then. The more possible paths and the more possible stories you get, the more freedom you have to shape your own life later. Madam President, I would like That's why it's so sad that parents' background is still crucial to how many alternative stories young people face growing up. Children's cultural habits, like school results, are far too much in line with parents' educational level and socio-economics. For some it's almost like life is a prewritten novel that it's just turning the page in and you know exactly what's going to happen. Everything seems to be decided in advance, and it's just following a script that someone else has written. For others, life is an entire library where there are lots of different stories to choose from and jump back and forth between. As a Liberal, I think it is a primary task for school, for culture and for the media to try to reach people who would otherwise not discover so many different options and possible paths. That's why reading bets are so important. I would like to see a more offensive and strategic national effort to promote reading. That's why we need to have more culture in school and develop Creative School. That's why libraries are so important. Libraries play a particularly important role in my liberal heart. I think of libraries as a fine mesh of meeting places for reading, learning, stories and in-depth conversations. I think that outreach and cooperation with other meeting places could give more opportunities to strengthen their ability to make independent decisions about their own life but also about society. Therefore, libraries are a central and vital part of democracy, but also in the aspirations of many people for understanding. Madam President, I would like Liberals have budgetary cooperation with the government. We support the budget proposal for 2020. It is a good initiative that we should now reintroduce the state contribution to the cultural schools. It must be possible to solve the problems that exist in connection with the School Inspectorate's decision on Gislaved's municipality. I hope that workable solutions can be found there too, because the cultural school must be allowed to take place and grow. Free entrance is reinstated. I wish we could have a broader political agreement on how we deal with the issue of entrances. It is not entirely excellent to change the charging system at all times. It would be good, not least for the sector, if we could reach a broad agreement. Fees shall not vary by political majority. At the same time, I see that much more is needed. We need more initiatives in many areas of cultural life. More than ever, we need to consider how more people get curious, how more people want to form, and how more give themselves the ability to make independent and informed decisions. That is why cultural policy is such a central policy area. Culture needs to take more place in Sweden. Cultural policy must be offensive. Formation and creativity are something we need more of in this country. Having said that, it is a budget that provides greater opportunities for people to be reached by those hooks, a budget that opens up rather than closes, a budget that opens up rather than frame. One can roughly divide cultural policy into two main directions ideologically. One wants to open up, and the other wants to lock in. One wants reading promotion, and the other wants to shut people out of libraries. One wants curiosity, and the other wants solitude. One wants education and knowledge, and the other pulls down on peoples' education. One likes surprises, and the other wants everyone to be read. One wants culture to give individuals the tools to find their identity and develop their potential, and the other wants the power of culture to strengthen their national identity. On one edge, ultimately, are the Swedish Democrats. I think liberal cultural policy stands for the opposite. I want to use the power of culture to increase people's power over their own lives. I want to increase people's freedom, and I see that culture has a crucial part to play in that.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-26	Madam President, I would like We can note, as we have all done, that, as Christer Nylander rightly pointed out, the Liberals are in budgetary cooperation with the government. That is why my direct question is: what happened to the Liberals' campaign for introducing a special support for museums? Now the county museums are going over on their knees. Has it failed in negotiations with the government or changed its position on whether the initiative was a wise idea? Does the government's policy in the field of culture seem to be so good that it does not need to create its own budget bill? How have they taken a position on something that has previously been highlighted as one of the most important measures for Swedish policy, namely to introduce production incentives for the Swedish film industry so that Swedish film can flourish in the country? It is a measure that the government has also argued that it wants to introduce. But this has not yet happened, even in this year's budget. Liberal relations with the government's film policy have been diametrically opposed in many respects. The positions advocated by the Liberals to strengthen Swedish film in general – creativity but also the production of both international and national character throughout Sweden – shine with their absence in government policy. My question is therefore: what is happening in the negotiations, and have the Liberals left the walkover on these issues today?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-30	Madam President, I would like For the Liberals, we still see a great need to develop Swedish cultural systems. V i sees a great need to strengthen the regions, and we see a great need for production incentives and a strong film production in Sweden. When you work together, you have to settle a deal with the parties. You also have to weigh things against each other. Sometimes there is a need for a strong commitment to, for example, the judiciary, and then other things have to stand back. Sometimes, as in this case, there is a need for the reintroduction of cultural school support. It is this type of priority that is being done in cooperation. But, Madam President, I will say that when I read the Swedish Democrats' cultural movement, I am very proud that my party made a deal with the government.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-33	Madam President, I would like I thank Christer Nylander for the clarification. Then I also interpret it as proud of not having managed to push through the incredibly much-needed reforms that the Swedish cultural landscape has longed for, not least in terms of cultural heritage and the conditions of the county museums. In the county museums you now get on your knees. Their opportunities for both preservation and development of activities are reduced on the basis that the free-entry reform is strengthened and Stockholm residents' and tourists' access to museums is increased – groups already visiting these museums – at the expense of the countryside. If you are proud to fail Culture Sweden outside Stockholm's customs, I am proud that our cultural policy budget movements are in contrast to each other.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-35	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that when parties cooperate, they still have their starting values in the budget discussions and settle on that basis. We still have to a large extent the focus that we have had in the past, and we have got through some things that we think are good. I am very pleased that the Swedish Democrats' budget motion does not go through, because it would be very strange if, from 1 January, for example, all film support were to be phased out without there being anything else in place. I think it would be really strange if you were to remove 700 million crowns from public education. Sweden needs more education and more knowledge. Madam President, I would like Therefore, I am pleased that my party took the necessary responsibility, agreed on the January agreement and implements budget cooperation, not least in order to minimise the influence of Sweden's democrats on Swedish cultural policy.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-38	Madam President, I would like To see Uppsala from the top of the cathedral a rainy morning in September, to visit the people's house in Söndrum in Halland or to see the dance initiative premises in Luleå is really something special. It is very special to see the large red theatre barn, Västanå theatre, next to Lake Mellan-Fryken in Värmland, or the renovation plans for the Rosengård library in Malmö or how nice it has become at the art and design museum Röhsska in Gothenburg after the renovation or how the whole Laxholmen in Norrköping has become a museum cluster. It is also very special to see older library visitors in Kista in Stockholm taught in digitalisation of new arrivals. Madam President, I would like This is an extremely small sample of all meaning, history and education, meetings and culture that can be found in our country and that I have had the opportunity to share in the last six months. However, when media and cultural policy is reflected in the public debate today, it has mainly come to be about whether non-citizens should be allowed to borrow books from libraries, that municipalities should no longer be allowed to purchase contemporary art or that public service lacks credibility. In a broad public, this arouses incomprehension and a certain form of anxiety. Gradually, proposals are presented whose meaning shakes the foundations of liberal democracy as we are used to it. Of course, a political debate and new proposals that strengthen cultural policy are welcome. But active mistrust of the media, limitation of the loan of literature and restriction of art motifs are actually about something quite different. It's about building a community way beyond the freedom. Madam President, I would like It is possible to design societies where free speech is restricted, where art is restricted and where lending literature should only be in a certain language. Unfortunately, there are far too many societies in this world that look like that. The Swedish labour movement broke up from this kind of ideas quite early. It was inspired by liberal democratic values and practical political philosophy. The main supporter of the theories was Ernst Wigforss, who summed it up as follows: It is not possible to draw up blueprints of the perfect society and believe that it can be implemented without coercion or at the expense of groups in society. Instead, you have to start from where you are and carry out reform work concretely in order to bring about progressive changes. Madam President, I would like Rarely is it so clear what a separate and different party the Swedish Democrats are like when they talk about their cultural policy. I firmly believe that they have painted their future society. The reforms presented show that they are prepared to implement them at the expense of social groups and the independence of cultural life. It is therefore extremely welcome that the Minister of Culture has taken the initiative to investigate the principle of arm's length distance, particularly in the light of the Swedish Democrats' 220 point programme in Sölvesborg, which includes a buy-out for challenging contemporary art. How the Swedish Democrats view the principle of arm's length, which means that politicians should not interfere in how a work of art is designed, even if it is ordered by the public and funded with tax money, would have been interesting to hear in the debate. Madam President, I would like While nationalist cultural policy is based on excluding people, Social Democracy is about releasing people. The complete democratisation of society has not taken place until every citizen of society has power over his or her own life and dreams. Culture for us Social Democrats is really everything that has constructed or cultivated man. It is usually said that the opposite of culture is nature. It is about the values and norms that permeate human society and thus form its foundation – about the structures around how a society should be built, what subordinations and superorders should be allowed and how we relate to them as citizens of society. Because culture is the bearer of structures around how a society is organized, it is automatically also a power instrument. In the worst of worlds, culture is used to erase cultural heritage and history and to limit and censor stories and artistic expressions. But in the best of worlds it can strengthen man's ability to take power over his own life. For us Social Democrats, culture has historically been about, and still does, the education of the people – knowledge and skills, willpower and mastery, no matter what class you belong to or what kind of life you have. It is about the power to analyze society and to point out and change the social shortcomings that one has in one's everyday life and in the reality that one sees. In particular, therefore, this budget is aimed at children and young people. If we are really to succeed in cultural policy, we must reach out to all our children and young people. We will never achieve this unless aesthetics, art and culture become part of compulsory basic education in school. We proposed the reintroduction of aesthetic subjects in upper secondary school by spring 2018, but unfortunately there was no broad support here in the Swedish parliament. We have also looked at how the municipalities' cultural funding aimed at children and young people looks like. According to the parliamentary investigation service, it is the municipalities governed by a bourgeois majority that have the least financial investment in cultural activities aimed at children and young people. The municipal cuts that are being made in cultural school activities are particularly important at the moment. Through this budget, we have therefore prioritised state aid to the cultural schools, the so-called development grant of SEK 100 million. I note that the Moderates have changed their minds on this issue and are now supporting the development grant. It is a very welcome initiative. We also extend and strengthen the focus on remembrance trips to the Holocaust sites by SEK 6 million annually, so that young people through the school are equipped with historical knowledge of the devastating consequences of racism. We also contribute 25 million to the initiative Strengthened libraries to reach young people in socio-economically weak areas. At the Government Office, both the conclusions of the Reading Delegation and the library strategy are being prepared, and a study was also set up this week to review the conditions for and the introduction of quality requirements for school libraries. Other important initiatives aimed at making public culture more accessible include the reintroduction of the free entrance to state museums, 11 million to further compensate for the renovation at the Nationalmuseum, awareness-raising efforts regarding the 100th anniversary of Swedish democracy and an investment of 20 million to the sports movement to develop sport for the elderly in cooperation with pensioners' organisations. I would like to conclude by emphasising the challenges of the media industry in the context of globalisation, digitalisation and technological development. It has been decided in the Swedish Parliament on a new fee system and broadcasting license for public service. The commercial media industry has fewer and fewer advertising revenues that finance high quality journalism, which means that we have introduced media, press and white-spot support. In this budget, we continue with the funding allocated to public service this permit period and increase media support to local journalism and news media throughout the country by SEK 140 million. Of course, we will continue to monitor the rapid development of the industry. Having said that, I call for the approval of the Government proposal and for the rejection of all reservations.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-62	Madam President, I would like You should hear a lot before your ears fall off, as you say, and I heard Lawen Redar talking about threats to cultural independence, about lending literature being offered only in certain languages, etcetera. My first straight question is: Where in Sweden has the independence of cultural life been threatened? In which municipalities has the arm's length not been strengthened after the new handlebars have been added after the election? Independence is, of course, vital, and I agree with Mr Redar that it is fundamental that the government wants to set up an investigation into arm's length to strengthen independence. What we have seen in recent years began not least when it was widely noted that an environmental partisan department wanted to influence editorial selection in public service. No other Swedish party has done so far. So this is the case. It has also continued to reduce – I mean – scientific independence and evidence-based research in favour of more politicised forms of both assignments and exhibitions. These are just a few examples of how independence has decreased and how this has been reflected in the media debate in recent years. It has been highlighted by many debaters, by many parties and by many people in general. The desire to contribute to the formation of the people does not seem to be rewarded by the electorate, nor by the actual outcome of the cultural policy pursued by the government.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-66	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. When a particular party starts instrumentalising cultural policy, the reflex response may be to go at least as much into instrumentalisation. I mean it's a very dangerous road. That is not what cultural policy's ambitions and objectives should be like. Instead, it is about freedom of expression, and it means accepting views that you do not necessarily like – with its ultimate limitation, which is incitement to ethnic groups. But is it not the case that Aron Emilsson's party colleagues in Sölvesborg have a 220-point programme for what they want to achieve there? And is it not true that paragraph 200 is about putting an end to the purchase of contemporary art?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-69	Madam President, I would like I am pleased if we agree that it is freedom of expression that is supposed to be the basis for and characterised by much of the independence of cultural life. It is also important that free art is precisely free from political points and reporting forms that are too rigid and so today, under the current government and the parliamentary majority. It is interesting that Lawen Redar mentions Sölvesborg, for it has been made clear on a number of occasions – not least in an article by the undersigned and by Louise Erixon, who is the Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board of Sölvesborg – that it has actually abandoned the direct political governance of the programme that was politically set up by the former Social Democratic-led government in Sölvesborg. Now they strengthen the distance and rather want to do so by strengthening civil dialogue and popular support and by having a longer distance to what free art wants to express.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-71	Madam President, I would like What I note is that the director of culture in Sölvesborg has left his mission and that the library association has been active in the debate about non-citizens not being allowed to borrow literature. It is at least one proposal that has been raised when the Swedish Democrats have answered the question how to handle lending in libraries. What we can also see is that this is clear from the 220-point programme in Sölvesborg on how to manage cultural life. You're in the middle of an area that's extremely sensitive. I welcome the initiative taken by the Minister for Culture. The Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis has been commissioned to look further at the principle of arm's length distance, and it will be very interesting to see the results of that investigation.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-73	Madam President, I would like Without cultural workers and creators, Kultursverige stays. I have raised the issue of the conditions for cultural workers and the social security system several times in this House. The National Association of Artists, KRO, conducted an investigation that showed that the average salary is about 13 000 per month and that many cultural workers, for example, refrain from having children because they have far too low parental allowance to survive on it. It is also worrying that work grants of less than two years– I think it is – are not pensionable. My question to Mr Redar is, Madam President: when can we see proposals from the government that include this part of the business community as well?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-76	Madam President, I would like I think it is very good that we highlight the conditions of the creators of culture. After all, this was done in the study from the last parliamentary term that put forward quite a few proposals on what is needed to improve the conditions. One example is the terrible situation that the Swedish Arts Board highlights, namely that established artists in Sweden seem to have an average income of 13 000 per month. As rents and costs rise in society, it is extremely difficult to work as an artist in Sweden. If we start with the investigation, I see good conditions for us to move forward with its proposals, because it is included in the January agreement. If it has not been included in this budget, I believe that there is a good chance of moving forward; that is one of the points that exists. The Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Liberals and the Center Party share the view that this is very urgent. Then it is also important to review the situation of the private sector as well. It is, of course, about the conditions for all cultural creators and about the free enterprise, which is important here. A week ago, in fact, I met many artists who pointed out that there are deductions conditions that might make it easier not least for artists. If large companies were to make deductions for the purchase of art, it could be an incentive to help artists get their works sold. These are issues that we will need to actively look further at, and these are proposals I am very open to discussing further – including with Lotta Finstorp.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-80	Madam President, I would like We look forward to this, and so does the cultural worker collective. Briefly: Sweden has no production discounts for film production. Therefore, large productions such as Game of Throne, Mission Impossible and Midsummer have been recorded elsewhere than in Sweden. I think that earlier in this House, when I have intervened on this matter, we have received half a promise from the Minister for Culture that this would be included in this budget. Now it's not there, and Filmsverige is sort of stomping around wondering when it's coming. We are losing revenue; film tourism is also a very good source of income for a country. My question is: when do we get proposals for film production incentives?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-83	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with what a strong film historical heritage we have in Sweden and that we must continue to work for this industry's conditions here at home. We see that in many countries in Europe this production incentive has been introduced. What we can also see is that the EU countries are starting to compete with each other at the time of their introduction. If one country lowers the tax burden on film production, another country will go further in order to create facilitating conditions for competition. I believe that this is not a positive way of working to strengthen an industry. We should not compete with tax incentives. The Swedish Agency for Growth produced this report on the initiative of the current Minister for Rural Development, who was then chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs. We can see that this is something that the whole industry supports, so our ambition is to work on it. But this budget does not include the issue.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-86	Madam President, I would like Expenditure area 17 shows the wide range of culture, education and sport. The Moderates' budgetary options should be seen as a whole. That is why we choose to refrain from taking a position and instead present a separate opinion for the whole area of expenditure and also a separate opinion for the part relating to public service. Imagine a society without all the different areas of expenditure! Is it even possible to imagine an existence without music, theatre, art, free media, libraries, sports and religious communities? Madam President, I would like It is simply impossible to imagine! The existence would be particularly poor without the cross-sectoral kitt that connects us between policy areas such as health, school and care. Our area creates relationships. It touches and engages. Culture follows us through life and exists in different shapes and places, not infrequently depending on where in life we are. The 2019 Cultural Analysis Report states: In addition to the geographical pattern, the variations between the cultural habits of different groups also follow a socio-economic pattern. As the differences in cultural habits between different groups of the population and different parts of the country persist, Cultural Analysis concludes that cultural policy has not been successful in pursuing the goal of participation. ..................................................... We must, of course, change this. Cultural habits and consumption of culture are linked and are not isolated from the state economy or from the individual. Some consumption of culture is partly financed by the state but also by their own wallet. Here you can see a link: When the tax is lowered people get more money in their wallet, and then they can take part in culture more. Madam President, I would like The Moderates don't promise everything to everyone. Our priority is to make culture accessible to children and young people, especially in vulnerable environments. Cultural analysis report 2019 confirms that publicly funded culture belongs to groups where parents have a high level of education and income. Therefore, we Moderates want to transfer resources from culture that are primarily consumed by adults to investments in children and young people, not least in vulnerable environments. We are taking the first step in our 2020 budget. Our budget includes a strong commitment to a cultural package for children and young people. I am very proud that we are taking this step. Against our budget is a Stockholm-led budget that benefits above all adult Stockholmers and visitors who get free admission to state museums, while museums in the country have great financial difficulties. Free admission to state museums is an expensive proposal that reinforces the unequal conditions for cultural consumption throughout the country. It is not reasonable for rural taxpayers to pay the bill. Madam President, I would like The Moderates thus reject the government's proposal for free admission to state museums in favour of culture aimed primarily at children and young people. Of course, children and young people should enter state museums free of charge up to the age of 19. We note that, in recent years, peoples' education has received significant economic reinforcements as a result of the previous large refugee reception. Now we are proposing some adjustment of this part and want to free up these resources so that they can go instead to children and young people. There will be a major investment in sport, where we have 200 million in our budget. In addition to this, we strengthen the grant to outdoor organisations, also with a focus on children and young people. Outdoor life and physical activity promote public health at all ages. Our right of public access is unique. Being out in nature has a positive effect on the individual's health both physically and mentally. Outdoor life has a great potential to stimulate movement joy and social inclusion for old and young people and for people with different conditions and ethnic backgrounds. Of course, experiencing nature together also builds priceless bridges between us. Furthermore, our cultural package includes an investment in Creative School, which reaches all children in primary school. Every child is in primary school every day, and this also reaches all children. There, cultural workers have good opportunities to teach creative knowledge to children and young people of all ages. Previous evaluations of the Creative School have shown that a large majority of municipalities have regularly made good use of the reform. Madam President, I would like We also continue to strengthen the work of libraries primarily for the integration of children and young people. Reading is power. Formation is extremely important for a child's linguistic and intellectual development. A good reading ability is the key to successful schooling and creates opportunities for the rest of life. Language learning is also about the right of all children and young people to know. Therefore, we give priority to strengthening the work of municipal libraries towards schools. Together they can build bridges with a focus on children's and young people's integration. The other day, a worrying report from the World Health Organisation showed that children and young people are moving too little. In fact, Sweden is the worst in the Nordic countries. The statistics highlighted by the World Health Organization show that 82 percent of boys and 87 percent of girls move too little. These are very worrying figures, and our investment in sport goes hand in hand with what this report shows. We really need to take a really long time to get more children and young people to move. I could have told you a lot more. I'm very proud of our budget, but I'm staying here. I have raised the issue of the conditions for cultural workers, and I will do so several times in this House. Without the cultural workers, we do not have a high-quality culture in Sweden.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-107	Madam President, I would like The political map is redrawn. Old alliances fall and new ones are formed. In cultural policy, it is clear that two parties that had previously had their own vision of the area of cultural policy spending have shifted this form of cultural policy involvement into history with the new forms of budgetary cooperation. In addition, another party has found inspiration in the development of cultural policy and for the first time in a long time formed its own funding allocation proposal in the field of culture. With these changes, we see a revitalisation of the cultural debate where more cultural policy ideas are debated – a freer debate on what culture is, on the role of the state in culture and on the aims of cultural policy. It is a debate that we appreciate. For the Swedish Democrats, culture has a central place in life, politics and the construction of society. Culture should be viable and for everyone. Our policy in this area is based on accessibility and public health. We see culture as an important element through all stages of life, from the cradle to the grave. We strive for a broad and viable Swedish cultural policy, where children's, elderly and disabled people's right to culture is given special consideration. Furthermore, we believe it is important for culture to come close to the citizens, and we therefore support efforts aimed at allocating culture somewhat less centralised and somewhat more regionally and locally. For us it is obvious that we in Sweden have a unique and valuable cultural heritage that is worth preserving and highlighting. In order to achieve this, we have distributed the investments in the area of expenditure between efforts to preserve and bring to life the Swedish cultural heritage and actions aimed at making culture accessible to children and young people, to the elderly and to people with disabilities. In addition, outdoor life adds substantial appropriation increases, and in sport funds are redistributed to permanent elite efforts and to specific initiatives on sport for the elderly. At the same time, we are returning earlier reductions this year. We are reducing appropriations aimed at specific integration measures, because although some cultural policies may have an integrational effect, integration measures themselves should not be the main objective of cultural policy. Sport and education fulfil their raison d'être by virtue of the intrinsic value of these activities, and it becomes strange, for example, with peoples' education integration efforts in front of peoples' education initiatives. We also withdraw contributions aimed at ethnic associations, associations based solely on gender or other activities based on irrelevant external criteria for us. Association activities seeking public support should be open to all citizens of the country. For us, it is strange that the public, which should be open, actively promotes activities that do not welcome all citizens to participate in their activities. For the Swedish Democrats, culture has a central place in life, politics and the construction of society. Despite a revitalised cultural debate, it is only we who present a more comprehensive idea of new cultural policy objectives, i.e. an overall vision of cultural policy. With our cultural policy objectives, we want to make it clear that the state has a responsibility to create good basic conditions for culture. Cultural policy is more than funding priorities. We stand as the only party with an alternative to the main cultural policy orientation in Swedish debate. Contemporary art should be given a somewhat greater incentive to stand on its own feet. We are convinced that Swedish cultural creators are a competent and resourceful group that is fully capable of being both involved in and recipients of more alternative forms of supply. In addition to that, there is a general view on our part that the contemporary culture should be as free as possible. We are convinced that we should not be dependent on political points and forms but, to a greater extent, dare to express ourselves freely. One of our greatest priorities in the field of culture is our cultural heritage billion, an effort that spans several grants focusing on cultural heritage. Within the cultural heritage billions there is an increase of the church antiquarian compensation of SEK 440 million. We have been advocating for many years an increase in the church antiquarian compensation. The needs in this area are great, but also the opportunities for development. It is gratifying that more people are now following us, albeit considerably less ambitious and without regard to all the needs in this area. The cultural heritage initiative also includes a strengthening of museums throughout the country. For our investment in open museums, we set aside SEK 150 million in a fund that museums throughout the country can request funds from. During the autumn it has been reported that the financial situation of the county museums is becoming increasingly strained. One third of the country's county museums will have to cut back on activities and staff to manage. Last week it was announced that Gotland Museum had to close its art museum indefinitely because they cannot afford to maintain the property. This year the government shows, with 90 million more for free admission in some urban museums, that the countryside is once again forgotten in museum politics. Instead of promoting sustainable museum policy throughout the country, the focus is on adding additional resources to the Metropolitan Museums, which can easily maintain high visitor numbers even with an entrance fee. The government should re-prioritise museum politics and seek to use funds to build long-term museum activities instead of helping urban residents and tourists to visit free museums at the expense of the rest of the nation. In several respects, our Nordic neighbours have made several advances in the digitisation of library services and have demonstrated several possibilities for developing libraries. This is a development that Sweden should be inspired by, for increased Nordic equivalence and coordination opportunities should be a pronounced ambition for Sweden. Over a ten-year period, we should digitise most of what has been released in the country. This year we are allocating nearly 100 million to start this project, including through permanent state funding by the Swedish Literature Bank, but also digitalization strategy in general. We are aware that our cultural policy has provoked many of the other parties in recent years. Our entry has brought an end to some of the consensus that has prevailed in cultural policy. Our prints are becoming clearer. Other parties have started to discuss more widely the forms of cultural heritage, Swedish culture, public service and the design of the public environment. From the fact that party leaders of Sweden's largest parties have not even understood that we in Sweden have our own distinctive culture, we now begin to actively discuss and promote Swedish culture together. By being the only party that seriously has an alternative to the government's cultural policy, I would say, we have put on the leadership shirt in the cultural policy debate in Sweden. The debate on Swedish culture is now more viable than it has been for many years. And I am pleased because it revitalises issues that affect people in depth, issues of cohesion, identity, impressions and creativity. In many areas, I see many opportunities to gather around joint initiatives. When comparing the budget movements, I note that this year the Conservative bloc – the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats – gathered around reinforcements to the Creative School, where we believe the government is not doing enough. I also note with pleasure the initiative that the Moderates want to make in Swedish outdoor life. In the past, we have been the only opposition party to push for substantial increases in funding to promote the public health and movement of children and young people. This is a welcome development. I would also like to emphasise the specific opinions of the Swedish Democrats in the report on the long-term review of the allocation of funds and mandates for such an up-to-date public service. There we see that there is a need to be able to do more for less, especially after the recent visit of the Committee on Culture to Denmark.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-129	Madam President, I would like I read the draft budget of the Swedish Democrats and have some supplementary questions about the proposals there. The Swedish Democrats are cutting SEK 30 million on literature support. Literary events will be reduced, international exchanges will be reduced and ex post support will be reduced. This should happen at a time when people should read more but read less. We should invest more in the promotion of reading. This happens at a time when publishers have it pretty tough. Why, then, do the Swedish Democrats propose that we reduce 30 million on literature? In the Swedish Democrats' draft budget, the film has a reduction of more than 97 million. They say that instead they want a film deal. It will not be in place on 1 January, but in your budget motion you propose a cut of almost 100 million on Swedish film. I think that Sweden needs Swedish film, and I think that Swedish film needs the support that exists. How would it work if the Swedish Democrats' draft budget were to go through without us having a film agreement? And we're not supposed to have that on January 1st. What would that mean for Swedish film?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-133	The Swedish Democrats propose that more than 770 million people should be withdrawn from education. Is it the Swedish Democrats' assessment that the level of education in Sweden is far too high and that it should therefore be severely reduced in peoples' education?
i-DHuDxTCohxUuy9kPjC5zC4	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christer Nylander, for the questions! Overall, we are strengthening this year's budget for the Committee on Culture's evaluation in relation to last year. Out of 50 appropriations, we are strengthening in 24 areas in relation to the Government's proposals. We focus on a higher level of ambition than the government, and this applies widely in the field of preparation, both contemporary cultural offerings and cultural experiences as well as cultural heritage. In 15 cases, we are at the same level as the government, and in 18 cases we are reducing expenditure. Last but not least, to broaden the perspective, I would like to remind Christer Nylander of our cultural heritage billions. It is a completely new allocation divided into a number of different funds for needs-tested actions for a national cultural heritage fund, open museums – Liberals have previously followed in this direction but have now abolished this proposal – creating care for the elderly, creating and opportunities for more cultural reserves in the country, stimulating cultural environment and skills in the country's municipalities, stimulating culture in health care, where more professional cultural creators and artists can have more livelihoods and legs to stand on, cultural pilots and a library effort of nearly 100 million. At the same time, I note that the government is investing EUR 25 million to enable libraries to reach young people in socio-economically weak environments. However, this is done at the expense of other reading promotion efforts. As far as the contribution to literary and cultural journals and magazine support is concerned, it is true that we are doing a reduction there, but it is not as serious as the debate sounds. As we see it, resources in Swedish cultural policy should be redistributed to more needs-tested areas.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-139	Madam President, I would like It is true that there are initiatives in the Swedish Democrats' motion: 300 million to cultural pilots who will teach Swedish cultural heritage and almost half a billion extra to the church political heritage. But the fact remains that if the Swedish Democrats' budget were to be voted through in this House, which it will not do, Swedish film would lose SEK 97 million from 1 January, because there is no other film agreement or other funding in place. The Swedish Democrats would reduce 30 million on literature support. There would be fewer literary events, less literary exchange and less ex-post support for publishers. They would reduce 20 million in assembly halls, so Sweden would have fewer meeting places. They would also reduce 770 million on education, plus a few hundred million on the opportunity for new arrivals to learn Swedish. The Swedish Democrats apparently find it troubling that newcomers learn Swedish. But where is the consistency of these major cuts?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-145	Madam President, I would like In the debate, it sometimes sounds like the Liberals, along with the other parties involved in government cooperation and the government, have not understood the needs-tested efforts that Kultursverige screams for. This applies not least to the necessary list of church antiquarian compensation, which also has development potential in itself. This also applies to the cultural slot function, which was actually one of the largest modern cultural policy reforms launched by the Swedish Democrats a few years ago. It is not at all about teaching only Swedish cultural heritage, but it is a function that will integrate culture into care, care for the elderly, school, community environment and community building. It is a municipal function that can seriously revitalise Swedish cultural life and open new doors for those who today are far from cultural life and cultural heritage. Liberals as an educational party should support this educational initiative.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-147	Madam President, I would like Let me continue on the same theme: it is a full cut budget presented by the Swedish Democrats in relation to the government's budget. We see a reduction of 113 335 000 SEK. Let me highlight some of these pots. Government museums receive 94 million less, film support 97 million less, National Council of Fine Arts 20 million less and the area of images and form 12 million less. Furthermore, there are minus 93 million in compensation and contributions to the artists, which I previously debated with Lotta Finstorp about. For the performing arts institutions there are minus 14 million, theatre, dance and music purposes minus 25 million, contributions to literature and cultural journals minus 30 million, public education minus 700 million and so on. This is what the representative of the Swedish Democrats calls an investment and a different cultural policy. But as I said, I call it a full budget cutback. Is that how you're supposed to interpret it?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-149	Madam President, I would like I note that voters interpret the Swedish Democrats' budget as a strategic, welcome and needed initiative for Swedish cultural life. I see what red figures the government has in relation to the Swedish Democrats' efforts. Some of the most important authorities and cultural institutions, which over the past year have shouted for funds, are not met with either a list or an increase in ambition from the government. It is about the National Heritage Office, the church antiquarian compensation and contributions to the national cultural environment care. It is about central museums and foundations as well as contributions to certain museums and museums all over Sweden. These are specific activities in the field of outdoor life and sport. It is about the National Council for Culture, research and development, support for non-governmental cultural facilities throughout the country for adaptation to disabled people and more. Not least, it is about Creative School, which would give many professional cultural creators and amateurs more legs to stand on. But here the government and Lawen Redar's party say no to the Swedish Democrats' efforts. So the picture is broader and more colorful than what Lawen Redar is trying to suggest. There are less re-priorities in our budget in the appropriations indicated by Mr Redar. I'm not worried that it interferes with the business as a whole, but here there is potential through effective governance. The trend has long shown that the government has problems with its financial competence in providing financial support and governance when it comes to budget monitoring and that the business focus keeps the budget and plan for the coming years. That is why I am not worried about the smaller re-priorities of the Swedish democrats.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-155	Madam President, I would like I am probably of the opinion that the Swedish Democrats' cutting budget will really disturb the performing arts institutions, dance and music purposes, contributions to literature and culture journals, state museums, film support and so on. It's about 113 million. Let me return to my previous debate with Aron Emilsson. It was about Sölvesborg and arm's length. I looked at this point because Mr Emilsson believes that it protects independence. Paragraph 200 states that when art is purchased by the municipality, timeless and classical art that expresses and harmonizes with the municipality's history, local identity and physically built environment must be put in front of challenging contemporary art. Let me again ask the question: should we interpret this so that, for example, the arm's length is maintained?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-158	Madam President, I would like Before the Swedish Democrats took over power in Sölvesborg, the art purchases were very much politically governed. There was a politically determined regulation governing the direction of art in detail. Who introduced this? It was the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party. A couple of these parties are now in the government, including Lawen Redar's own party. This is horribly bad with all praise for arm's length and independence. A timeless art is now advocated that harmonizes with the municipality's history, identity, physically built environment, etc. These are wishes that have been expressed for years by the public and by citizens. Strengthening civil dialogue without establishing in a regulation exactly how art purchases should be governed cannot threaten independence. It strengthens civil dialogue and popular support, and it should be positive for all of us who believe in democracy.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-160	Madam President, I would like For us in the Center Party, culture is something that should be accessible to everyone. That is why we want state cultural institutions to spread their activities throughout the country. We also want to develop the cooperation model for regional culture and, among other things, set up a system for a national Capital of Culture year. In the Center Party, we strive for everyone regardless of their place of residence, background, disability or life situation to have the opportunity to participate in a cultural life that holds both professional culture and amateurs' creation. This gives room for a broad cultural life that includes new digital cultural expressions as well as traditional cultural forms. It is therefore important that libraries, which are located all over the country in each municipality, are open and accessible to everyone, with wide and accessible literature and information. This will also create a broad breeding ground for formation. Civil society, where cultural associations, sports and outdoor life exist, also plays a major role in keeping our society together and is a major and important contribution to further development. Here I would also like to mention the education of the people, which, not least together with the community farms, the H us of F olket and the sobriety movement's premises, gives more opportunities to take part in and participate in different types of cultural events throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Formation and contact with others is central to being able to orient themselves, shape own and independent perceptions and actively participate in society. Folk education is therefore incredibly important to our society. Society is enriched when there are good opportunities for people to join forces and learn more about some subject based on their own interest. Here peoples' education contributes with a structure that supports a wide range of educational activities. This activity therefore plays an important role in society and cannot be replaced by training organised by public or educational companies. Madam President, I would like The free commitment that thrives in cultural life and in civil society associations is important to bring our society together. Culture, sport and association engagement strengthen people's self-confidence and also make more use of freedom of expression. Regardless of your place of residence, background, disability or life situation, you must have the opportunity to participate and participate. It strengthens participation and democracy in our society. In culture and free association we get the opportunity to understand ourselves and others better. We develop our creativity through encounters with the unexpected. Not least, it is vital that all children face many different cultural expressions, so that they can find their own expressions. This also creates a breeding ground for education to carry with it throughout life. An accessible cultural school throughout the country plays a very important role here. Madam President, I would like Independent media are important for our country's democracy. In order for us to have a functioning democracy, we who live in this country need to be committed, knowledgeable and involved, not least in order to be able to follow what we decision-makers in different positions decide and then also be able to influence our decisions. In order to be involved, one must also be informed. Then we need both independent public service and free commercial media, side by side. A prerequisite for us to have a living democracy is that there is access to independent media with the resources, opportunities and skills to produce and demonstrate investigative journalism. At the same time, it is a serious development that access to local journalism has decreased in many places and that some places now lack journalistic coverage. This development obviously needs to be reversed. Public service has a special role in this media landscape, a role that includes being an independent player with great integrity, being independent of political governance and commercial interests. The broad remit of public services is a prerequisite for continuing to be relevant in our society and in the rapidly moving media landscape, alongside independent commercial media and independent commercial cultural life. The culture and entertainment that the public service companies produce and convey also gives a broad picture of our society. Public service plays a major role in the reflection of the whole country. It is needed, once again side by side with the private players, to provide a variety of perspectives. Madam President, I would like Having the opportunity to participate in a free cultural life and civil society, as well as free media, provides room for engagement that develops and brings our society forward.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-170	Madam President, I would like Today you would have listened to Vasiliki Tsouplaki, but you will have to take care of me instead, because she has become ill. Madam President, I would like The Committee on Culture is responsible for Category 17, which contains many areas. It is, of course, a question of culture to a very large extent, but sport also receives a large share of the funds. Other parts are media, civil society, youth policy and education. It is a total of 16 billion that goes to businesses that are close to the vast majority of them. It can be about the children's sports club, their own choir, the conditions for the young people living in your neighborhood, the music you listen to on the way to work and the TV programme you watch in the evening. During the last parliamentary term, the Left Party and the Government increased their efforts considerably to these ends, since we were then able to agree on the importance of, for example, culture, leisure activities and peoples' education for people's development and well-being, for the social debate and, in the long run, for our democracy. Unfortunately, the pace of development seems to decrease somewhat now that the government has a collaboration with L and C. I am pleased that our old reforms, such as the EUR 100 million of the cultural school and the money for the free-entry reform, are now solid. The Left Party also wants to continue to strengthen this area and invests 658 million more than the government for 2020. Madam President, I would like The Parliament has established very high ambitions for the country's cultural policy, and it is our task to take decisions that take us in the right direction, so that these goals can be achieved. We have three overarching objectives: The culture should be a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression. Everyone should have the opportunity to participate in cultural life. 中 Creativity, diversity and artistic quality should shape the development of society. These are certainly not easy goals to achieve, but they are not entirely utopian either. There is a need for focused work and knowledge about which actions can make a difference. Some of the responses already exist in investigations and analyses by authorities. The Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis notes that little has happened in recent decades in terms of cultural habits. Action is needed in many areas, and for the Left Party cultural policy is closely linked to our quest for an equal society. The Left Party's budget bill for next year is called "Ap lan for Equality and Green Change". Our proposals ensure that resources are redistributed to society. Those who earn a lot of money will have to contribute more to the common welfare, and we will even out income gaps. We need to create a society that stays together. Those who live in smaller towns should have access to public services, those who get sick should be able to rely on health care and we should feel confident that the school provides our children with a good education and that there is support if we become unemployed. Strong welfare also means access to culture and leisure activities. A meaningful everyday life with the opportunity to express itself through culture, develop together with others in association life and participate in positive contexts need not cost so much in crowns and coins, but it is gold worth the one who gets to experience it. State cultural policy is an important element for this to come into play. It shall, inter alia, ensure the distribution of resources across the country and give all residents access to cultural activities. We want to enable people throughout the country to be both participants and spectators by increasing access to culture. This requires a good infrastructure with roughly divided three parts. The first part is public institutions such as county theatres, museums and libraries. The second part is non-profit cultural actors such as organisers' associations, community farms, Folkets Hus, amateur cultural organisations and study associations. The third part is free cultural life, with musicians, theatre and dance groups, individual artists and private institutions. All parts are needed to reach out to all parts of society. In addition to infrastructure, we also need to ensure that there are good educational paths and good working conditions for cultural creators. Otherwise, scenes and cultural houses will be empty. In our budget, we ensure that all these elements are strengthened. Public institutions are strongly strengthened when regional cultural budgets are invested through the cultural co-operation model, with EUR 100 million for 2020 and an additional EUR 45 million from 2021. Many county theatres and museums are currently at risk of cuts. In the Left Party budget, the cultural school receives a total of 400 million to reach more students and remove fees. The central museums receive more in our budget to compensate for the influx of visitors with the free-entry reform. We pay particular attention to the development of the Museum of Movements in Malmö, which during the last parliamentary term was promised state aid but which the government seems to have forgotten in this year's budget. The non-profit cultural sector is supported by 10 million to amateur cultural associations, whose contribution has remained stable for ten years. Free cultural life is supported by 35 million more. This means, among other things, efforts to strengthen access to professional dance throughout the country. Madam President, I would like The Left Party's proposal for a budget also includes a substantial cultural heritage effort. In addition to the county museums, which I have just mentioned, county boards play an important role in the preservation of cultural heritage. For us in the Left Party, it is of the utmost importance that cultural heritage can be preserved throughout the country and that cultural environments are accessible to more people. For many years, the state has imposed new administrative tasks on the county administrative boards without adding new funds. For a long time, the debate has been high in terms of increased violence from criminal networks, major problems with drugs and the increasing number of young people being drawn into destructive environments. A good schooling and active leisure time are among the strongest vaccines we have against that development. With our proposal for a free sports school, more people can enter the sports movement. We also see the need to strengthen youth organisations. The government, L and C, unfortunately, are choosing to cut back on the appropriations in order to give instead to the MUCF authority. This is very strong, when youth organisations have not received subsidies for very many years, while the number of organisations has increased. It is in itself very positive that more young people are active, but in practice this has meant cuts every year for existing associations. Madam President, I would like Finally, I can say that I regret that the strong budget of the Left Party, entitled 'A Plan for Equality and Green Conversion', will not have a majority in this House and will not become a reality in 2020. But I hope that many people will take part in it to see another development that is possible.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-190	Madam President, I would like For those who want to review our Christian Democratic policy, I would like to refer to our specific opinion. I would like to begin by quoting the famous psychologist Aaron Antonovsky: The purpose of life is to experience a sense of context, to be part of a context and to have a task. Madam President, I would like It is 5 per cent of Sweden's population – equivalent to half a million people – who are alone over Christmas. We are talking about involuntary loneliness, what it costs and what culture can do to create community between people. On social media, many Swedes today have hundreds of friends. At the same time, a survey shows that one in ten Swedes does not have a single close friend. The study also shows that 63 percent have never borrowed anything, such as tools or flour, from a neighbor and that 16 percent do not know the name of a single neighbor. It is 59 percent of the persons in the survey who say that they feel lonely often or sometimes. Of these, 29 percent say that they see it as a problem. Research has shown that loneliness, living alone and having weak social ties, is as bad for health as smoking 15 cigarettes a day. This increases the risk of premature death by 26 percent. Loneliness has resulted in additional health and care costs of approximately 12.4 billion in 2018. Moreover, more and more are buried without ceremony, without a single friend or family member present. Such funerals have given us a whole new terrible word: In Stockholm, 10 per cent are buried in this way, which is more direct. What do we, as Christian Democrats, want to do about loneliness? We set aside 10 million for an older lift that involves a sports venture for the elderly where the funds will go to training and community. We want to see resources for more shelters for the elderly and strengthened staff continuity in care for the elderly. We are strengthening civil society broadly with an additional 10 million and a re-imposed tax reduction on donations to charities. Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight further areas where we invest more than the government: according to the Christian Democrats, the sports movement plays a very important role for both individuals and society at large. It offers community and a platform for people to develop. We believe that the work on inclusion within the sports movement cannot be stressed enough. The Christian Democrats want to continue to encourage the important role of the sports movement in society and therefore increase support for sport. We are launching a leisure card for all children in grades 2 – 9. The card is loaded with financial support for participation fees in leadership-led activities in Swedish society and cultural school. The card should encourage children in financial vulnerability to participate in association life and allow them to enjoy active leisure time. Most children will receive SEK 500 per year of support, but children in households with financial vulnerability will receive much more, about SEK 2,400 per year. We invest SEK 850 million in this, of which SEK 40 million goes to the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, which administers the new leisure card. Madam President, I would like One of the Christian Democrats' priorities in the field of culture is the Creative School. Support will strengthen the link between school and culture. Artists and writers can come to school and work with the students. Since its inception in 2008, Creative School has been expanded to include all primary and pre-school classes. We spend 10 million extra on Creative School. The Christian Democrats also invest 15 million in additional contributions to the Swedish National Council for Culture for grants to music organizers who are non-profit associations without employees or paid staff. We believe that it is civil non-profit society that supports music life outside the usual professional institutions. The addition to the music organizers benefits the musicians who are hired because the money goes to a large extent to pay reasonable fees. Madam President, I would like Wars conducted by the terrorist organisation Islamic State, IS, in Syria have made us aware of how recruitment to IS and other violent extreme movements have been going on here in Sweden. School domains, youth centres and social media have attracted historyless claims and radical callers. The Christian Democrats propose that the state give the Living History Forum the task of informing about the crimes of violent Islamism. The Living History Forum today informs of the atrocities of Nazism and the crimes of communist regimes against humanity. We set aside SEK 10 million in addition to the Government's proposal for the Living History Forum to inform the public about the crimes of violent Islamism. There are terrorist organisations such as Hamas, Hizbollah, the Islamic State and al-Shabab, to name a few. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude my speech with what the peace fighter Martin Luther King, who I cannot get past in this context, said: The great tragedy is not the brutality of the evil people, but the silence of the good people.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-202	Madam President, I would like This year it is 30 years ago that the Berlin Wall fell. There are probably some in this House who remember the scenes of joy when the first reports came that the border between East and West Berlin was opened on 9 November 1989. It was a dramatic event that brought to an end not only a regime but also an epoch – the Cold War. In several Eastern European countries free elections were held. The two German states were reunited the following year, and the Soviet Union was dissolved at the end of 1991. Francis Fukuyama proclaimed the end of history and the victory of liberal democracy. This year we are also celebrating 100 years of democracy in Sweden. When people organized themselves, demanded change and fought hard, the right to vote was finally introduced for everyone. Democracy is developing in waves; this has been demonstrated not least by developments in East and Western Europe. Sometimes it is strengthened, and sometimes it is slowed down or even going back. We are living in a time of rapid change, where globalisation and digitalisation transform our societies. In Sweden we see how polarisation is increasing and the fundamental pillar of democracy is being called into question. There's a sniper on public service. Artistic freedom is restricted in some parts of the country. Threats and hatred have become everyday for journalists, elected representatives and artists. A tougher climate of conversation and debate and the vulnerability to threats and hatred sometimes lead to adaptation and self-censorship. When voices in public space are silenced and silenced, it undermines our democracy. We must resist the right-wing populist wave that highlights hatred and wounds split between people. The budget presented by the government together with the Center Party and the Liberals is unique. It is our common desire to defend the foundations of liberal democracy that have enabled our four parties to agree on budgetary cooperation. We all stand up for a strong rule of law, an unwavering protection of individual rights and freedoms, opposition to xenophobia, independent free media, independent culture, equality, equality and equal opportunities regardless of background. Madam President, I would like Free art is central to our politics. Free art contributes to the discovery of new artistic and intellectual areas. Therefore, artistic activities must be free from political influence and short-term commercial conditions. It is extremely important that the principle of arm's length distance to culture, which has been mentioned here today several times, is maintained. This is particularly true in the light of the authoritarian forces that are growing stronger. Artistic freedom is motivated by its own value, but it is also a prerequisite for the quality, renewal and diversity of art. When free art breaks new ground and challenges familiar notions, it acts as a watchdog of democracy by questioning power and stimulating critical thinking. We are currently seeing free art being nibbled at the edge to fit into the populist world view. The authoritarian view of culture that wants to use art and culture to shape a society in a nationalist direction is strongly opposed. We will always defend the principle of arm's length and freedom of art. Madam President, I would like The national cultural policy objectives identify a group as particularly important: children and young people. The school has made a difference to many people in our country when they have had the opportunity to try their wings by, for example, standing on stage, playing an instrument, filming or painting. For most, participation in the cultural school leads to a lifelong interest in art, music and culture. That is why we continue to invest 100 million a year in the cultural school, which helps to increase equality in the country. It is a flexible support that allows municipalities to use it according to their own needs: to reach new groups, to invest in efforts for young people with functional variations, to expand their supply or to expand their operations. Ensuring children's and adults' access to culture, knowledge and education is a prerequisite for the maintenance and development of liberal democracy. I support the proposal of the Committee on Culture in its report.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-215	Madam President, I would like Finally, then, it is time to debate Category 17! I, who for the first time stand in this House to debate just one area of expenditure report, cannot help but be struck by the contrasts in the concepts that we use. U venom area 17 – imagine that such poor budget terminology can at the same time accommodate the most important things we have, culture! Because that's exactly what it is; culture is our way of life, our way of communicating, our aesthetics, our common heritage and our language. Culture tells us what it is to be human. Madam President, I would like My first time as Minister of Culture has been marked by two things: the ambition to create a more equitable access to culture and the ambition to protect artistic freedom from political mischievousness. These are not simple objectives to achieve. Access to culture is still largely dependent on unfair structures such as habits from home, the thickness of the wallet and expectations in society. We are working purposefully on the issues. We have come a long way, but much remains to be done. Culture, Madam President, is not an easy pastime for those with good economics and plenty of leisure time. Culture is a fundamental thing for all of us. Therefore, more culture must be made available to more people throughout the country, to men and women and to all children and young people, because children have the right to a wider world. The second major challenge is to protect freedom of expression and artistic freedom. This year, foreign interests have marked against Sweden and against me because I have not acted as they wish in connection with the award of a cultural prize. Journalists and artists are still threatened both here at home and in the outside world. Mature politicians are becoming increasingly obscene in their attempts to lock up, rule and threaten free art. Against this I intend to fight, for people silence our democracy as well. Madam President, I would like This budget allocates an additional SEK 292 million to culture for 2020. Since the Red-Green Government took over responsibility for cultural policy, culture has received as much as 1.7 billion in increased resources. To this is to be added for 2020 140 new billion in media support. Media policy, Madam President, is, like cultural policy, very important. It is through culture and the free media that freedom of expression, education and democracy are realised and practiced. Madam President, I would like When I took office as Minister of Culture in January, the infamous napkin sketch signed Kristersson and Busch Thor had recently been voted through in the Riksdag. Servett skiss shouted out their priorities: less culture, decommissioned environmental measures, cheaper petrol! Åkesson gave his service to these priorities. In this napkin sketch on the budget disappeared with a single pen stroke state support to the cultural school. From the municipalities rose when protests arose when cultural schools were forced to cut back on their activities as a consequence of the support being pulled away. The most severely affected were children in vulnerable areas. That is why it was extremely important for me that state aid should be restored as soon as possible, and so it was. Already in the spring budget, support came back for the year that is now entering its final stage, and in the budget we are discussing today, the Culture Budget for 2020, there are again SEK 100 million per year for the country's cultural schools to distribute. Why, then, is culture school so important? One could justify this with all the positive effects we know that culture has on health, on school outcomes and on social development. In the longer term, the cultural school has a crucial function for the professional music and cultural life that we know today in Sweden and for a society where the education is strong. However, I think that it is enough to point out the only crucial value: the well-being of children, their right to development as human beings, their ability to express themselves, their right to culture and to a wider world. In the year of the state support to the cultural school, the right-wing opposition has been beaten with beaks and claws for it to be removed. Now, however, something has happened. When I read the right-wing opposition budgets, it looks as if they finally came to their senses and let the state support for the cultural school remain. I am very pleased. An investment in cultural school pays back many times as our children can develop in all the creative potential they have. The culture of children and young people, Madam President, is worth investing in. Madam President, I would like Our common cultural heritage is a matter for all of us. Therefore, the thresholds for our cultural heritage must be flattened. One such threshold is the entrance fees. They should not have to stand in the way of people being able to enjoy our common cultural treasures. The government has long worked to make cultural heritage available. Several of our cultural heritage institutions have received financial reinforcements. The Museum Act facilitates the collaboration of museums so that they can more easily place objects at the disposal of each other. Cultural heritage is thus given the opportunity to reach a larger audience. Free entrance reform is an important piece of the puzzle of many others. However, it disappeared in the right-wing opposition's budget last year. Now we return free entrance to our state museums for everyone. Cultural heritage is our common heritage, and it should not be hidden behind walls. Madam President, I would like Sport follows us through life and touches us in many different ways. However, not all people have the same opportunity to take part in this amazing world. That is why, together with the sports movement, we need to make sure that it is even wider and even stronger. To succeed in this, it takes purposeful work for all people to be included on equal terms, no matter who they are or where they come from. The need for healthy activities and social contexts is no less in older people than in younger ones, rather the opposite. Sport and physical activity are often a lifelong commitment that can contribute to better health and reduced loneliness among the elderly. This is why the government is supporting the sports movement, in cooperation with pensioners' organisations, to carry out efforts on this particular issue. Madam President, I would like A cultural policy that promotes more culture to more people and protects artistic independence today has, above all, two political tendencies to deal with. The first is the neo-liberal fever dreams in which culture is only a simple Sunday pleasure for everyone to engage in their leisure time, where politics does not have to take responsibility for the fact that culture can be financed and accessible to people, but where culture has the best chance of doing it in the commercial market. The second is the authoritarian currents which understand the power of culture and who are now acting with increasing confidence to control it on the basis of their own policy of power, the currents which are pursuing an increasingly obscene, loud and hateful criticism of free art, independent journalism and everyone's right and the possibility of practical and real freedom of expression. Reading the Swedish Democrats' budget motion is as enlightening as it is appalling. The ideological starting point is that culture is the tool of power to shape a national identity based on its own arbitrary preferences. They're strangling the funding of museums whose contents they don't like. That's remarkable. They're strangling support for public education. The artist's support should also be reduced. In view of the Swedish Democrats' nifty and almost hostile attitude to free art, this is not surprising. Public art in Sweden Democrats' Sweden should not provoke, not ask any difficult questions and not problematize our society or what it is to be human. On the basis of political dictation, art should instead be governed to satisfy the wishes of power. To disapprove of questioning power may be excused, but it is unpleasant when the Swedish democrats themselves aspire to power. A man of power with a credible democratic disposition, Madam President, always welcomes scrutiny and questioning. Me and the government choose another path. We are choosing a policy that sees the value of free culture and seeks to ensure that culture and education take a place in society, a policy where culture is nothing dangerous that must be kept in tight rein, a policy that values culture as the developing force it is. Madam President, I would like There are political forces that see culture as a simple pastime that can be prioritised away. But there are also political forces that recognize the inherent transformative power of culture and therefore want to tame it for political purposes. The first force is naive, but the second is dangerous. I'm gonna fight both of them. I agree with the conservative icon Winston Churchill: If culture is not allowed to stand free in its own right, what is left to defend?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-239	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his speech. It was interesting to hear a quote from a conservative politician at the end. I would like to mention a couple of things to which I reacted. First, there's the culture school. I'm a musician myself and I know what it means. I know we took away this 100 million. I would like to say that we did not do the right thing. We made a mistake. We have now reintroduced the 100 million so that they are included just as they do for the government. So we're back on the track, and it feels very good. After all, it is not so common for a politician to say that you have done wrong, but I would say that perhaps it was the case that you made a small mistake. I also heard that from some people out in the business. It's good to react, I think. It's called democracy. As I said, I am glad that we are back on track, because we really want to be involved in supporting the cultural school. The second thing I wanted to talk about is perhaps the next line, because actually my question was how we should be doing with public service. There is a tension between commercial and public service. I think that relationship is very interesting. Let me ask you this: how much will public service have to swell? How big is this gonna get? There is a 2 percent list every year, but how big does the Minister think that public service – Swedish Television, Swedish Radio and Education Radio – can be?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-242	Madam President, I would like I really want to say to the Christian Democrats and Roland Utbolt that I think it is positive when you can change your mind. I am pleased with the broad participation in the cultural school that we now clearly have in the Swedish Parliament. It bodes well for the future, where we need to continue discussing the importance of the cultural school throughout Sweden so that it can be strong and accessible to everyone. We have discussed and debated public services. We have landed in long-term rules for public service, most recently with the six-year broadcasting license that was recently put through and also with the economic conditions for public service. For me, it is important to have a strong, broad and independent public service for everyone, but of course it is also important to have broad commercial, free and independent media. That diversity, the two legs, has served Swedish media policy well, I would argue, and so I mean it should remain. We have also done a great deal in the government to strengthen the commercial press. We have increased media support, an important part of the budget, for next year. We have removed the digital VAT for digital publications. We also have a completely new media support system where we invest in covering the white spots with low publicist coverage around the country. It is important that we maintain that balance in the media market. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask the Christian Democrats a question. However well-lucky it is that you still have the investment in culture school, you actually cut several hundred million in culture. It is positive that the cultural collaboration model is taken up and wants to strengthen it, but at the same time the support for musical performing arts is withdrawn, which actually means a net minus SEK 28 million. What are the Christian Democrats thinking there?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-246	Madam President, I would like It's a matter of priority. We give priority to healthcare, care, social services and the judiciary. We spend 9 billion on increased welfare. It is simply a matter of priority. I have now set out our main priorities and, unfortunately, there must be a reduction in other areas. It was a good thing that the Minister of Culture stood up for Guo Jianmei from China on that occasion. I am the chairman of Särla here in the Riksdag, who works with the Right Livelihood Award, and want to say that it was very well done. We want to narrow down public service. One should work with the core business in particular. The Christian Democrats are fundamentally in favour of public service. It is the Minister who is responsible. So I would like to ask: how big is it going to be?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-249	Madam President, I would like I think I have already answered that question because we have fixed the broadcasting permits for public service. We have a 2 percent list in order to be able to have a broad and independent public service for everyone and have a range where there should be something for everyone. I hear the Christian Democrats want to diet public service. That would be deeply unfortunate and troubling. A narrower public service risk not being relevant to the entire population of Sweden. It also runs the risk of flinching what the Christian Democrats say they want to protect at the edge: the cultural offering and the education of the people. I therefore hope that the Christian Democrats will think about it and back off the shift that has just been made in public service policy. It is a pity that Roland Utbolt's fine words about culture are not reflected in the Christian Democrats' priorities in the budget. Cutting millions of dollars in film support and in support of free art and libraries would be unfortunate for Swedish cultural life.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-252	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I do not think that the word napkin sketches about a budget belong in a serious debate on a serious area. In addition, the Minister forgot to say that in the previous M-KD budget we contributed 3 1⁄2 billion to the municipalities, which they themselves could put where it needed to be invested. The Minister has during his first time as a minister focused on working for the free culture. That's great. However, many cultural workers and creators show that there are a large number of governing parameters and ambiguities for applications for scholarships and grants. Their applications run the risk of being consistent on the basis of policy guidelines. I'd like to call it a kind of stealth control. What happens to the independent free culture practitioners when scholarships and grants govern what is produced so that they can obtain funds to create? Does the Minister think that culture should be politically correct in terms of managed grants? Is it important that the policy governs the provision of subsidies through parameters such as diversity, gender, etc.? And how does the minister define arm's length in relation to controlling parameters?
i-T6ifL4FjCPceM2JG56k5ak	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for the question! Culture must be free, and arm's length must prevail, whether it is an environmental party or a Swedish democrat who governs cultural policy. I announced a few weeks ago that I and the government have commissioned the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis to review the principle of arm's length distance at both the state, municipal and regional levels. Just as Lotta Finstorp says, there are flagrant abuses where you in some way want to control what kind of art to buy and what types of works you as politicians do not like. There is also the slightly more potential, indirect impact that artists may experience. It is also important to review. I look forward to that mission and that Myka will present the results of her review so that we can in different ways ensure that the distance of arm's length applies and that the art and culture can be free. I am pleased that Lotta Finstorp has expressed a commitment to cultural creators' conditions. I would like to say that there is much in the Moderates' budget motion on this which is also good. I would like to put a counter-question to Lotta Finstorp, given that Lotta Finstorp's party leader Ulf Kristersson has now announced a collaboration with the Swedish Democrats. Should we be concerned that free culture and art live dangerously in the future? Only by reading the Swedish Democrats' budget bill can you see what it looks like in the municipalities. It is obvious that when the Moderates allow the Swedish Democrats to enter the heat, the Swedish Democrats, as Aron Emilsson says, take the takpin and dictate cultural policy. I place my hope in the liberal part of the Moderates who love freedom. Can we be sure that the Moderates will not act as a doormat for an anti-liberal authoritarian cultural policy?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-261	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are the guarantor of free culture. I can tell you that right away. I have another question for the Minister. The government is developing a strategy for the tourism industry and revising the export strategy. Municipalities and regions have their own strategies and see the importance of cultural and sports experiences included in them. How does the Minister of Culture ensure that culture and sport will also be part of the forthcoming national visitor strategy?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-263	Madam President, I would like I interpret Lotta Finstorp as saying that the cultural policy of the Swedish democrats will have no impact in future cooperation. I note that there has not been the same approach in principle in Sölvesborg. Culture and creative industries are of course an important part of Sweden's export industry. It's a question I'm following closely.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-265	Madam President, I would like You shouldn't throw stones in glass houses. However, if it is something I hear in this House today, it is a Minister of Culture who throws the small brawl wildly. I would say that no cultural policy is without value. It has been established throughout history. In the past, however, I have been impressed by the practicality and nuances shown by the Minister for Culture in cultural debates. Today, however, I hear that very many rhetorical straw men are being built up and attacked without proper objective support. We heard that freedom of expression is under threat, that Swedish democracy should see cultural policy as the tool of power to govern authoritarianism, that we strangle support for museums and that we challenge free art. In all these respects, culture and cultural policy have never been as politically governed as in recent years with the Environmental Party in the Ministry of Culture. Innumerable people have noted this. Not long ago, a liberal editorial stated that the great threat to free art and Swedish cultural life is not the Swedish Democrats but the governance of the Green Party. Who has responded to the need for independence and arm's length when giving the Film Institute direct mandate to practice norm creativity and when the Museum Act reduces the evidence-based, scientific research, management and production of our common cultural heritage in contrast to the Swedish Democrats' proposal? We wanted to increase that distance. Under the former Social Democratic-led government in Sölvesborg, together with the Environmental Party and the Left, there was a firm rule on how to control art purchases. Now they want to strengthen civil dialogue and encourage the timeless and popularised art in the common public space. In all these respects, the Swedish Democrats have pointed out that we need an increased distance and a popular cultural policy that also has the voter's confidence.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-271	Madam President, I would like In that glass house I heard many stones thrown by the Member of Parliament Aron Emilsson. As usual, the Swedish Democrats' budget deviates greatly from the draft budget of all the other parties. They write and say that cultural policy should be used to shape national identity. Sometimes it is expressed a little milder: to create community and cohesion. Culture and cultural policy are used to fulfil a political purpose, to fulfil the political project. It is for me the opposite of free art and free culture. The fact that the Swedish Democrats slaughter peoples' education is a severe blow to Sweden as a nation of culture and knowledge. How do we get a stronger and more formed Sweden if you want to dramatically reduce the funding for people's education? They also want to reduce media support by nearly SEK 100 million and the funding for free art by SEK 180 million. They want to remove the grants to the libraries with SEK 129 million. This is a drastic cut-off budget, a budget in which drastic re-priorities are made in a way that gossips about the Swedish democrats' political ambitions for culture. I stand for something else, namely a free art and a free culture where arm's length should apply. It is the opposite of the cultural policy of the Swedish Democrats.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-275	Madam President, I would like I'm the first to welcome an investigation into how to strengthen arm's length. It would definitely be necessary, especially after the year of the Green Party in power at the Ministry of Culture. Many have continuously observed and noted this in the media corps, in the political dialogue and in the social debate in civil society as a whole. I would like to draw both the Minister and the House's attention to the fact that, in this year's budget for the Committee on Culture, we have a total increase of millions. Out of 50 funding lines, we strengthen 24 areas and focus on a higher level of ambition than the government. We do this because we have put our ear to the ground and listened to which areas and appropriations have been neglected after years of mismanagement. It is about cultural heritage billions, which are aimed not least at civil society. It is also about strengthening the Creative School, reinforcements that through cultural slots can give more practitioners, artists and artists – both professional and amateur – more legs to stand on. The Minister for Culture should welcome this if she wants to protect the space of free art to grow in Sweden.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-278	Madam President, I would like I strongly doubt that free art and culture would welcome the dramatic cutback budget of Sweden's democrats. They speak warmly for the film. How can it help to strengthen Swedish film production if they cut off one fifth of film support? How will artists and cultural creators be able to stand better on their own when the Swedish Democrats cut down on the funding for free art and culture? In a time of newspaper and media crisis, they also choose to reduce media support by over SEK 100 million. Madam President, I would like This says some of the views of the Swedish Democrats on the importance of independent auditing journalism throughout the country.
i-PJgaGfzZaECmxjMcb9SGwL	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Mikael Damberg, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi, Minister Jennie Nilsson and Minister for Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-280	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. The Government has commissioned Statskontoret to analyse the effectiveness of Nationalmuseum's administration, governance and follow-up, as well as the Authority's financial data. Recently, the final report came. It is a very worrying reading with particularly sharp criticism of the poor administrative culture. Statskontoret notes that the government's weak governance has contributed to the problems and shortcomings at the National Museum, where the planning did not start from the financial framework. The ownership has not been linked to the objectives of the business. This, of course, affects the parliamentary power of control and the ability to prioritise. The working environment of the National Museum is also clearly lacking.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-284	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for the question! First of all: Letting Statskontoret carry out analyses of various agencies is part of the Ministry of Culture's work on monitoring and reviewing our cultural institutions. Such an analysis is important, because it gives us the tools to see what development opportunities the agency has. It is valuable to us in our management and governance work, and it is not least valuable to the head of authority in the continued work. We had identified challenges in terms of Nationalmuseum management, governance and follow-up. With the opening, after the new superintendent arrived, the cost picture was also clear. Therefore, at the beginning of the year, the Government gave Statskontoret this task, with the aim of getting an overview of the organisation but above all good data and tools for the joint work forward. I take a very positive view of that.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-286	Madam President, I would like You rarely read such a sharp criticism. The National Museum has a difficult economic situation. A contributing factor is the government's free-entry reform, which has had negative consequences for the Authority's ability to finance its activities with fee revenues. The National Museum has also pointed out that compensation is too low. It does not cover the cost of the Authority. Is it reasonable that museums bleed financially while the government adheres to the free-entry reform?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-288	Madam President, I would like Nationalmuseum is Sweden's largest art and design museum. It is absolutely amazing with the crowd influx that has come after the free-entry reform. I'm very proud of that. Of course it also means increased wear and tear. This means an increased need for staff to be able to receive the increased interest in our fantastic National Museum. This is why we have added money this year and also strengthened the Nationalmuseum's resources for the coming years.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-290	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Jennie Nilsson and concerns the conditions for people in sparsely populated areas to commute. Some time ago, a proposal for a new travel allowance was presented. The Swedish democrats see it as another in a series of anti-rural proposals from the government. An example of a calculation based on the proposal in question shows that a not at all unusual rural family with two adults who have 100 km to work and who lack public transport would lose up to SEK 25 000 per year if the proposal were to become a reality.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-293	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Mr Palmqvist, for the question. The issue is not in my briefcase and is not being dealt with in my department. But in general, it is obvious that people in rural areas are dependent on communications, and it is about the rules of the game that politics puts in place. The policy has ordered that you review the travel deduction system in such a way that you get an increased differentiation and rather tilt money from city to country. An investigator investigated this and put forward a proposal back to policy. We were very clear that it did not correspond to the order of politics. If I remember correctly, now that I am trying to take it from my head, an extra investigation has been set up to review this and get the parameters that were in line with what politics ordered from the beginning.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-295	Let me remind you that questions have to do with the official duties of the Minister of State.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-296	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am well aware that the government has been forced to act on this issue. However, in view of the initial proposal, the question remains: what is the government's view on the matter, and is it prepared to ensure that the new travel allowance is not designed in such a way that rural people become the great losers?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-297	Madam President, I would like I thought I was quite clear in my answer. When politics directly, when you get an investigation proposal, says that this was not in line with what you have ordered and set up a supplementary investigation, you show that you are serious.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-299	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister of Culture Amanda Lind. The government says it wants to prioritise that all children should have good opportunities to attend cultural school, something that we in the Center Party support. However, the school inspectorate has imposed a penalty payment on Gislaved's municipality so that pupils are not allowed to leave regular education in comprehensive school and instead participate in the education of the cultural school. More than half of the cultural schools in the country have education during regular school hours. It is mainly rural municipalities that solve cultural education in this way. An estimated 25 000 pupils are teaching in this way with the cultural schools. However, the penalty payment has meant that several municipalities in the country have now chosen to stop the education of the cultural school during the school period. I therefore wonder what the Minister for Culture intends to do to ensure that all children have good opportunities to attend cultural school, given what I have just mentioned.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-303	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that for the government cultural school is a priority. For the first time, we have a national policy for the cultural school, with cultural school centres, cultural school grants and a focus on teachers. As far as the decision in Gislaved is concerned, it is important to say that it concerns just one municipality. For me, it is self-evident that students around our country should be able to take part of the cultural school within the framework of their schooling period, but it must also be possible to solve it so that you have the right to the guaranteed education period. I know that the Arts Council is following this issue closely. On their website you have published some advice and guidance to the municipalities on how to arrange a cultural school in different ways so that all children should have the opportunity to take part of it also within the framework of their continuous school day.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-306	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In view of what has happened in Gislaved, we still see that several municipalities choose to give up cultural education that means that you can walk away during school time. Does the Minister see that some kind of change of regulation may be required around this, or is this guidance sufficient? Perhaps more guidance is needed? What does the Minister say? What can be done so that more people can really get access to the cultural school?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-308	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to see that children are entitled to their statutory teaching time. Then you can solve this in a variety of ways, and this is already being done around the country in many municipalities. I think the important thing now is to try to be creative and see how to find solutions. Many municipalities have already done this, and I believe that the Arts Council and the Cultural School Centre can play an important role in spreading these examples and creating security for both students and teachers around the country.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-310	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Mikael Damberg, who speaks for the whole government. The employment agency is in a very deep crisis. We hear about companies that seek contact with Arbetsförmedlingen and do not even get answers. People wishing to receive training are referred to social welfare offices and subsistence support. The employment agency closes down in localities without anyone taking over the duties. At this point, the government seems to want to continue along the road and strengthen it with a chaos privatisation of crucial parts of the Arbetsförmedlingen's operations. We have experience from the starters. They had to end because of extensive cheating and sometimes pure criminality. Now a similar mistake is to be made again.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-314	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Labour and the Government have acted on this important issue and continue to do so. We have taken steps to ensure that Arbetsförmedlingen will exist and have operations throughout the country. It is about local presence throughout the country, it is about ensuring that the number of labour market policies will be able to increase next year and it is about ensuring effective support for people with disabilities. The Minister for Labour was out today explaining that a new Director-General of the Employment Service was appointed. We will make it clear in the regulation letter for next year that Arbetsförmedlingen will ensure an appropriate local presence around the country. In addition, we will also be able to use funding savings for 2020, which means that SEK 900 million more will be used for labour market policy efforts next year. This government takes responsibility for ensuring that it supports this activity, which was hit very hard by the M-KD budget when it was voted through in the Swedish parliament.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-317	Madam President, I would like The Government is responsible for the chaos in Arbetsförmedlingen, which directly affects the long-term unemployed, but also Sweden's municipalities. It is not prepared to interrupt a privatisation that lacks support in Parliament. It gives the Left Party no alternative but to pursue the lodging of a motion of censure against the responsible Minister of State. We will now contact the Moderates to act together on this issue. At the same time, I would like to extend a hand: Start negotiating with us! Resolve this and ensure that the problems are resolved and that chaos privatisation is stopped!
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-320	Madam President, I would like If Jonas Sjöstedt is to succeed in doing this, he must arm the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, the parties that have caused the economic crisis for the Public Employment Service around the country. It is also these parties that have put proposals on the table of Parliament for major additional savings in labour market policy. The Government will set up a working group with all parliamentary parties with the aim of providing the parties with information and transparency and the opportunity to follow the work on the reform. All necessary legislation will be submitted to Parliament. If the Left Party wants to influence, it is possible to do so. The January Agreement is solid.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-323	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister of Interior Mikael Damberg as representative of the Government. In Sweden, 870 000 people via the Swedish Tax Agency have received a coordination number to be able to live and work here. The police and the Swedish Tax Agency have warned that around 45 percent, i.e. about 400 000 of these, do not have an established identity. This means that we have a situation that is unsustainable, with a system that creates the basis for a parallel society in which we lose control of who is in our country. People are in danger of being exploited by rogue employers. It can also be about people whose intentions to be in Sweden are completely unknown, and there is an increased risk of crime. The Swedish Tax Agency already alerted in 2017, and in 2018 they came back with proposals for stricter requirements. But instead of quickly implementing the proposals, the government launched an investigation to be completed in 2021. My question is: why does the government not listen to the Swedish Tax Agency and implement the proposals on stricter requirements?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-327	Madam President, I would like I think that the examination of the coordination numbers is important, because this is serious. I think it is good that the problems come to the surface. As we know, problems with this were revealed years ago. At that time, authorities took several steps to tighten up the system. The number of refusals increased considerably, but the review shows that there are still problems with coordination numbers. That is why we in the Government Office will start work on a fast track with sharp legislation. But we also need a complete overhaul of the legislation, and that investigation continues to work. However, I would like to be careful to say that it is not the case that you have the right to work in Sweden with a coordination number. Employers who employ people without a work permit commit a crime and can be convicted for this.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-331	Madam President, I would like Today's situation with regard to coordination numbers is not sustainable in the long term, which is why we Christian Democrats want action now. We propose to reboot the current coordination number and allow those who need a new coordination number to make a new application with stricter identification requirements. They should also be able to apply for a limited period of time and be deactivated in the event of detected errors. My question is: what is the government's position on these proposals for stricter requirements?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-334	Madam President, I would like I reported that there is a fast track of stricter legislation at the moment. However, we need a review of the entire legislation, which is why the investigation is working. One must also be careful to say that there is no release in this. Employers do not have the right to employ people who do not have a work permit in Sweden. It is a crime, and this can be condemned for.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-337	Madam President, I would like This week, the PISA survey came with encouraging results in many parts. It shows that politics can change and improve. In-depth studies on reading, however, show that there is a lot to do and some to worry about, after all. Of the young, 50 - 60 percent read only when they have to. About 40 percent think reading is a waste of time. The reading of fiction decreases significantly more than in other OECD countries. Many people read news online, but when you weigh it all in, the reading of news by 15-year-olds has decreased significantly overall. The trend seems to be stronger than in many other countries. This has consequences for what it means to be a citizen, and it has consequences for school outcomes. My question to the Minister for Culture is how the Government sees the possibilities of culture to increase interest in reading and thus ensure that PISA results for Swedish students in the future can be further strengthened.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-340	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christer Nylander, for the question! Reading and reading promotion are indeed the most central efforts we can make both for school results. It is of course also about literature and reading for each individual and what it means to be able to take an active role in the social debate, to express themselves and to claim their democratic rights. We have initiated several reading promotion efforts both inside and outside the school. We have also said in the January agreement that the work of the Reading Delegation will be carried out. We have recently decided on a directive for a study to look at how access to school libraries can be more equal. There is also ongoing work on the library strategy, which is important for strengthening the role of public libraries around the country, i.e. a combination of early efforts and promoting books and reading widely in society. There we have done a lot, and we will do more.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-342	Madam President, I would like This shows in some way the fundamental importance of cultural policy. It is about the ability to read, to interpret what you read, to participate in conversations, to be a democratic citizen and to succeed in school. It is good that the Government uses the tools that are on the table and that are highlighted in the January agreement: Reading delegation, library strategy, school library initiatives and so on. Does the Government see further measures that the Government can take to strengthen reading interest?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-344	Madam President, I would like There are always more things that can be done. We will listen to civil society, the associations that work with reading promotion, our librarians and our teachers, who have good knowledge of meeting students and children to develop and stimulate learning. I can also point out that I think that the initiative on reading holidays and that preschools have been given the opportunity to buy books and develop their preschool libraries are two point initiatives that have been important in raising the status of reading.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-347	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Mikael Damberg. It's about juvenile robbery. We know that youth robberies are increasing in many places around the country. I fear that they may be prioritised down in times of shootings and serious organised crime. At the same time, these crimes are at risk of creating great insecurity among young people and also of widening the gaps in society. As a Member of Parliament from the Stockholm region, I know that this affects many young people. Every day, three youth robberies are carried out in this region alone, and I know that youth robberies have doubled in 2019 in my municipality of Tyresö.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-351	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mathias Tegnér, for an important question! This is an issue that we should take very seriously. There are those who want to ask this question completely alongside the question of gang crime. But when I talk to the police and social authorities, they know that many of the young people who are early, at low ages, involved in robberies and expose other people to this humiliation are at risk of getting caught in crime later on. The signal I get from the Police Authority is that this issue is taken very seriously. Increased local presence with police officers is an important part. You now work even better with cameras. Often these robberies occur in connection with communication points, such as subways, commuter trains and bus terminals. It is incredibly important that the police continue to prioritise these crimes and that social authorities intervene with firmness when young people start committing crimes at a young age.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-354	Madam President, I would like A wise Tyresöbo wrote on the Internet. I do not have time to quote what she wrote, but she mentioned both housing segregation and school elections as some things that risk leading to gaps between people, between those who have and those who do not have faith in the future, hope, faith, language and physical things. I fully agree with the Government that repressive measures are needed to deal with the problem, but the question is what we can do to promote the confidence of all young people in the future.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-355	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to mention a happy news story that came up yesterday about the PISA results. They are a tribute to students and above all teachers and principals who have worked hard to reverse developments in Swedish schools. This is perhaps the most important crime prevention work we do when we see rising knowledge results in Swedish schools. But we have also promised to return to the municipalities with further efforts to provide support for prevention and social work. At times, targeted efforts are also needed for those young people who are at risk of falling into harm's way of life. Not only do we need more police, but we also need more social action.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-357	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Justice was on a study trip to Romania and Bucharest a few weeks ago to study, among other things, the human trafficking situation. It is a huge problem in Romania and also in other EU countries. This is also part of men's violence against women. It is a global problem, but it is also a problem in Sweden. I would like to ask, Madam President, Minister Mikael Damberg what the government intends to do to counter trafficking and pandering in the European Union.
i-9eG3MiezSZGBQKeCVDUdbU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rasmus Ling, for an important question! Sweden has chosen to prioritise men's violence against women here at home, but we also raise the gender perspective in international contexts. We see that this is a huge market where criminal gangs and organisations make money using people. This is an issue we will continue to work on internationally. But we have to work at home too. That's why I'm glad the police are equipping up their opportunities to work against violence against women and violence in close relationships. It is not just people who come from outside who suffer violence. We have also introduced new penalties – human exploitation. There is a scale of gross exploitation that can be used, and it should cover people who are used for begging and other purposes or in slave-like conditions. The first judgment came today in a district court where a restaurateur was sentenced to prison after using slave-like contracts in his activities. It is a step on the way with the help of the new legislation.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-362	Madam President, I would like I am pleased with the answer, and I am pleased with the battery of measures being taken in this incredibly important area. Something that was particularly highlighted during the visit to Bucharest was a desire that Sweden should also be more active on the ground, a more direct cooperation bilaterally. I would therefore like to ask the follow-up question whether this is something that the Minister for the Interior is prepared to review.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-364	Madam President, I would like We can do much more in bilateral contacts with regard to trafficking in human beings, exploitation and in general crime prevention. Some of the criminals move across borders, and then we have much to gain by cooperating with the countries of origin. If we have done so, we have met with great interest from other actors. I am prepared to look at what we can do further.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-366	Madam President, I would like In February, I asked a question to Rural Minister Jennie Nilsson. It concerned the issue of the rules in agriculture. I mentioned, among other things, a research study that shows that the number of rules and requirements that farmers should live up to is 600 more than for companies in general. The Swedish Agency for Growth sent out its own survey last year asking questions about regulatory issues. For the first time, the Swedish Agency for Growth included entrepreneurs working in forestry, agriculture and fisheries. It turned out that almost half of the respondents believe that the regulatory burden is hampering growth. This is twice as high as other entrepreneurs. The conclusion is simply that there is a need to review the regulatory burden. I agree with that.
i-5G8ir9NCQhDGNm3Szdqp2g	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Betty Malmberg, for the question! This is not a new issue, and it applies to all sectors. The bottom line is that rules are introduced and decided by politicians because there is a need to achieve, for example to safeguard people's health or something else. Having said that, it is undoubtedly the case that we need to do more to facilitate the regulatory burden on all businesses. I also agree with the view that specific holdings that are subject to a supervisory activity are under an extra burden. What we are primarily doing in this area at the moment is working on the second food strategy action plan. My absolute ambition is that the rule issue and how we work to facilitate in this area should be a priority in the work.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-371	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It sounds promising that this will nevertheless come into an action plan for the food strategy. At the same time, I would like to say that this is a matter of urgency. It is not just about other entrepreneurs. Farms thus have over 600 extra rules to relate to. In fact, if we are to live up to the food strategy, it is about the growth and future confidence of food and agricultural entrepreneurs as well. Honeymoon's over. I would like to hear when we can expect results.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-374	Madam President, I would like I think that all politicians would like to see a solution to this issue. I also think you need to work broadly. I note that the former government, the alliance government, had an action plan in this area. Although you had a strong focus, I think you realized how difficult it is. You need a lot of tools. You need to have a strategy with several parts, but you also need to work with e.g. the Rättvik model and look at good examples. I'm prepared to do that.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-378	Madam President, I would like My question is to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. We note that the Swedish welfare system is extremely strained and vulnerable. The evasion of grants may be regarded as widespread, not least by the fact that the government has profiled Sweden as a generous welfare benefit country. In order to be credited the contributions you may be entitled to, it is necessary to provide correct information to Försäkringskassan. Everything else is to be considered a crime. Unfortunately, the number of cases of fraud can be assumed to be relatively large, and in the last ten years the number of reported offences has increased by about 10 000. It goes without saying that those who are deliberately deceived should be convicted of crimes, but the thing is that those who intend to cheat do not have the ambition to be honest with the authorities. The government's most important task should be to ensure that cheating is simply not possible. The system is built on loyalty to both the country and our welfare system, and that entry unfortunately does not work in the society that we see today. My question to the Government is: could it be that it has been too gullible to check and ensure that payments are made correctly?
i-Y5VrfhZX1csUExAHgKCQ23	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Lindberg, for the question! The task of the Government and the Riksdag is to fight to maintain trust in Swedish social security systems, in our welfare system. It is against this background that from the first day of 2014, the government has given priority to combating and preventing crime against our welfare systems. It covers everything from the work done with ownership and management review to the specific measures to ensure that our authorities have the right tools to tackle fraud and violations of the benefit system. That's why we've re-introduced the civil record crime. It was wrong for the previous government to abolish it. That is why we have also tightened the penalties for serious benefit offences. Therefore, a law will soon be in force to improve the exchange of information between our authorities to combat these crimes. We're serious. This is supposed to get out of our society. It is an obligation we have to our citizens.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-390	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is about time that the government got the issue moving and that investigations and measures are under way. Nevertheless, I cannot help being a little concerned because you have historically ruled the country. You have not really been receptive to the signals that we have been sending for a long time that politics you are pursuing will have major consequences for the whole welfare system. Here we are. People are secured, and cheaters are allowed to take part in our welfare. It would be most honest if the Government could admit that you have been naive in this matter.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-393	Madam President, I would like There is perhaps reason to remind Linda Lindberg and other Swedish democrats who are in this House that the Swedish Democrats last term of office, for example, opposed the introduction of ownership and management testing of the people who run our schools. It is good if you have now woken up and realised that we need rules to stop criminals from attacking Swedish welfare. We intend to continue our efforts to combat and prevent welfare crime.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-395	Madam President, I would like Then the Minister for Social Security will once again be in the speaker's seat, because I am going to ask you a question about blank medical certificates. We know that employers are doing all they can today to get those who are sick back to work. They have a great responsibility in it and are involved in every way. Employers must now also write a rehabilitation plan for how to return. Then employers will get a blank medical certificate. They have no idea what the diagnosis is or what kind of disease the employee has. How, then, can they assess the right to leave and the right to sick pay or even adapt the workplace in order for the employee to return?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-399	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Zander, for the strong commitment to these issues, not least with regard to sick leave and entrepreneurs! As Solveig Zander knows, the government has for a few years been focusing very much on improving the quality of our health care operations when it comes to health certificates. The Government has, among other things, initiated the collaboration that we now have between Försäkringskassan and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, which is about increasing the quality of medical assessments. I take with me the question of how this affects employers in the first, initial phase of sick leave. It is, of course, important that the work done on the right to sickness benefit and the improvement of the quality of sickness certificates in connection with it also benefit in the initial phase of sick leave, when the employer is the party receiving the sickness certificate.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-402	Madam President, I would like The government is placing more and more tasks on companies. That must be made easier in every way, but you have not put so much effort into it. Now employers also receive blank medical certificates. It goes without saying – how can you adjust the return to work if you do not know what the cause of the disease is?
i-8b7YzJrE5kgabngmjGhP24	Madam President, I would like Thank you, once again, Solveig Zander! I would like to emphasise that it goes without saying that society, the state, the government and the parliament must ensure that employers assume their responsibility to combat ill health in Swedish working life. It is a self-evident obligation that we have if we want to ensure that people do not end up in long-term sick leave. Then the employer must also assume his responsibilities, and it was right for the government to change the regulations. But I will take the specific question with me.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-406	Madam President, I would like Last night it was shot in my hometown of Norrköping. Two men are murdered. One was just released from a long prison sentence. Since autumn 2014, the government has initiated more than 50 criminal measures. Anstaltes and jails are now overcrowded. The police are more than in a long time, and there's been an amnesties of weapons. But the shootings are not decreasing, for the government has missed what really reduces crime. Nothing is invested in crime prevention. Local social services are on their knees. The lock-in to society from the prisons obviously does not work. When will the government realise that punitive measures do not reduce the number of shootings and start to really focus on crime prevention?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-410	Madam President, I would like I don't want to put tougher hands and more cops against preventive work. I think both are needed. When we expand the police, it will make a difference for security all over Sweden. For example, when we tightened the penalties for serious gun crimes, police officers now arrest and lock up people carrying weapons to a very different extent than in the past. It is right and needs to be done. We will have to pursue some of these penalties in order to get to the criminal gangs. Then it is true that more preventive work is needed. I will not comment on individual cases, but there may be adult people who are grossly criminal and not really susceptible to preventive work. Municipalities must focus on school, social services and leisure activities for young people in the first place. And today we can still praise the school for what happened yesterday, when we learned that we have achieved a turn in Swedish school and that the knowledge results are moving in the right direction. This means a great deal to prevention.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-413	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to put more pressure on the prevention of crime when this work is not presented by the government. If there are resources to put forward policy proposals for 50 different penalties, the same resources must be spent on crime prevention. PISA results are great, but much more is needed. We cannot have social services that go on their knees and do not have a reasonable chance to work crime prevention.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-415	Madam President, I would like It is the teachers who have made a difference in school. They have also got work friends – about 30 000 more people work in Swedish schools today compared to 2014. It is clear that it provides more support for young people; it is crime prevention. In the public sector, 100,000 more people are working. The 34-point programme against gang crime mentions drop-outs and more money for social services, schools in the most vulnerable areas and fielders in the evenings and weekends. More social efforts are also needed. The government will return to this in cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-417	Madam President, I would like Rural Minister Jennie Nilsson, why are fishermen affected by the closure of cod fishing in the Baltic Sea not adequately replaced? The European Commission has decided to ban cod fishing in the Baltic Sea. Fishing has been stopped since 24 July this year. The government has supported the Commission's decision. Only in mid-October did the government say that compensation should be paid to the fishermen concerned in response to the decision. I have talked to Tom from Sölvesborg, who has been fishing for 46 years; he is 62 years old. The compensation he has been offered for no longer being allowed to fish cod amounts to SEK 8 914 for the period 24 July to 31 December this year. It is 48 kroner a day when he has been deprived of his livelihood. The compensation is an insult to fishermen. Why are fishermen affected by the closure of cod fishing in the Baltic Sea not adequately compensated, Minister?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-419	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Roland Utbolt! I note that the situation of the Baltic cod is acute. It has therefore been necessary and good that both Sweden as a nation and the European Commission have acted on the current situation. However, I share the view that work needs to be done on both short- and long-term measures in terms of compensating fishermen and helping them to switch. We have so far made decisions linked to the emergency stop. This meant that you could get compensation for being completely sedentary. We have designed those rules as we can design them, that is, precisely in accordance with the Fisheries Fund compensation rules, which are restrictive. Should we choose another method, it would be contrary to state aid rules. So this is the model we have chosen and can choose.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-421	Madam President, I would like The government often talks about small-scale fishing while, I believe, helping to make it impossible. For next year: Fishermen get unemployment benefits only if there is a storm or ice on the sea. The question is why fishermen who are now suffering from the closure of cod fishing in the Baltic Sea cannot receive unemployment insurance. What does the Minister want to do about this?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-422	Madam President, I would like One of the most fun things about my briefcase is that it in any sense affects a lot of people. However, this is an issue that does not really belong to my portfolio. But I have made the same note and reconnaissance as Roland Utbolt and I can say that you get caught here. However, this is not a matter for another department, but for the treasury; it is a matter of how they have chosen to organise themselves and pay out. But this is worrying. We need to look at whether it can be handled reasonably.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-425	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Jennie Nilsson. Last week I participated in Opinion l iv in SVT to debate how the whole of Sweden can live. In Östavall in Ånge 80 people are told at a sawmill, and about 20 entrepreneurs also lose their jobs. In the past, a number of government jobs have also disappeared from the municipality. It is important that we Social Democrats continue to show that we are serious about the whole country living and growing and that we continue to give priority to rural areas. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister: What initiatives does the Government intend to make for Sweden's various rural areas and for regional growth?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-427	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Monica Haider, for a very urgent question, and congratulations on a great effort in public live! This is an important issue that deserves serious debate. We already made a change of course in the area of rural policy in the previous parliamentary term. The work of the Rural Committee led to 75 sharp proposals, which we are now working on in various ways. This is important, but it will not be enough. Therefore, it is also very important to continue the efforts that have been made to strengthen the finances of municipalities. Much of what is really important for people in rural areas is about a functioning welfare, but also about, for example, commercial service. Today we are investing in grocery stores so that they can be found in more places. It is an effort that we will continue. I believe, however, that we will have to sharpen ourselves further and take this debate to new levels.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-431	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I also think it is important that we continue along this path when it comes to making investments for the whole of Sweden. My question is therefore: What does the Government think we need to do more to be able to live and work throughout Sweden?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-432	Madam President, I would like I take up where I left off because the time for each post is short. I also believe that the cost compensation system, which is on its way, is very important for us to manage to close gaps between city and country. There we are now allowing criteria such as sparseness and socio-economics to have a greater impact. This will mean a lot. We have focused a lot on the challenges; you have to do that. But we also need to work more to raise attractiveness and that which strengthens the attractiveness of municipalities.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-435	Madam President, I would like For the first time in 170 years, a wolf tribe has now established itself in Östergötland. In my home area outside Finspång there is now a vargrevir that threatens the security of those who live and work there. Hunting dogs that are attacked and sheep that are demolished and killed are the reality of the residents south of Hällestad outside Finspång. This has enormous consequences. People no longer dare to go out with the dog. Farmers are thinking of replanting pastures, and hunters dare not release their dogs during the hunt. All of this risks leading to the disappearance of open landscapes and biodiversity, an increase in the population of wild boars and an indoor stay for humans and animals. In addition, today we have twice as many wolves compared to the Parliament's lower target of 170. Despite this, no protection or licence hunting is granted on wolf. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Rural Development what she intends to do about the wolf problem, which is becoming more and more common throughout our country.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-438	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, John Weinerhall, for the question! The Parliament has made a decision in this House that says that we should have a wolf tribe with favourable conservation status while taking into account, for example, domestic animal husbandry and socio-economics. We have then delegated decision-making to the appropriate authorities and regions, which should be based on suitability and scientific basis. It is primarily the county administrative boards and the wildlife conservation authorities who have this responsibility. I note that it is not true that neither protection hunting nor licence hunting are allowed. It exists, and it is reasonable and good. What's true is we don't have a license hunt this year. Compared to two years ago, the wolf population has decreased from 355 to 300.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-440	Madam President, I would like The government is now trying to remove the enforcement barriers that prevent a group of active terrorimams from being expelled from Sweden. What this means in practice is trying to establish diplomatic guarantees that these people will be treated humanely in their home countries. The fact that this is not quite successful is probably due to the government's famous slowness. Sweden has never used this method before, despite the fact that these kinds of enforcement barriers are not uncommon and that other EU countries have been using the method for a long time. Unlike the government, we saw this problem coming. We therefore raised a motion over four years ago calling on the government to start this work. However, the Social Democrats in the Foreign Affairs Committee were as uninterested as the government and rejected the motion, given that it was not necessary. I would therefore like to ask Mikael Damberg: Do you think it has been wise for the Social Democrats in both parliament and government to ignore this problem for so long?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-443	Madam President, I would like I note that the government has taken a decision on expulsion and that a court has ruled that it is not possible to carry out the expulsion. It's something that binds the government. This is the situation we have in Sweden, but many Western European countries also have exactly the same problem. The government is working to get rid of enforcement barriers. It's not an easy job. It is described as having been possible to take a decision three years ago and that it would apply today. That's not how it works. These are individual cases, they are individual countries, they are long negotiations and they are work on the basis of the conditions that exist. We have a dialogue with the Security Service and with other countries that have applied this. They testify to the fact that it is extremely difficult and long-term work and not something that can be carried out generally, but that individual and targeted efforts are needed to make it possible. We now have a government working for this. We didn't have that before.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-447	Madam President, I would like Today, Save the Children is conducting an action outside the Swedish parliament to pay attention to the children who are trapped in camps in northeastern Syria. The children have been a long follow-up during 2019, and despite the great attention that the children's suffering has received in the Swedish media, the government has not managed to bring home more than seven children. According to Save the Children, around sixty children with strong links and ties to Sweden are still considered to be present. The Left Party has raised the issue several times during the year. Among other things, I myself have submitted not one, not two, but three written questions to the government on the matter. A child should never be held responsible for his or her parents' choices. Several children have now been forced to live more than a quarter of their lives in inhumane refugee camps. They want to go home, or as a child said in a recorded conversation:
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-449	Madam President, I would like First of all, Sweden is a major humanitarian donor to the countries and regions that have been severely affected by the conflict in Syria and Iraq. We work to help children get home to Sweden. It's not an easy job. We've managed to bring home seven orphans. We're working with more orphans, but it's a complicated process. Turkey's recent actions in the region have not facilitated the work. Had this been a simple question, more Western European countries would have solved it. This is not the case, but it is complicated in several countries. But the Foreign Service is working on it, and we're giving priority to orphans. When it comes to other types of children who have parents in the camps waiting for prosecution or when those who hold the camps will not release adult people who may be convicted of crime, it becomes even more complicated to sort out kinship but also how the custody issue should be dealt with when Swedish law is fully applied.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-453	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Rural Affairs. It has soon been three years since the Parliament adopted the Food Strategy. I was alone in negotiating for it. It is based on more competitive and profitable Swedish agriculture. Our country's self-sufficiency in food will increase. In short, food production will increase in our country. So, how's it going? Unfortunately, things haven't gone very well. The Swedish Board of Agriculture came with a figure last autumn that showed that the number of dairy businesses continues to decrease. About five dairy businesses end every week. Sweden is the only EU country where weighted milk is reduced. Our self-sufficiency in food continues to decline rather than increase. When I ask farmers, many say that profitability is too bad. My question is: in what way do farmers see the food strategy at farm level today compared to three years ago, when it did not exist?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-457	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Magnus Oscarsson! I have the same picture that profitability or lack of profitability together is the biggest challenge we have linked to getting more self-sufficiency and more people who want to be farmers in Sweden. Therefore, I am very pleased that during the last parliamentary term something unique was done in Sweden: For the first time, we got a comprehensive strategy for how we should work with these issues, from primary production to export. On the other hand, it is not a matter of turning things around overnight, it is a matter of being long-term and sustainable at work. We are currently in a position where we are working on a second action plan. My ambition there is that the focus should, for example, be on dealing with things that are labeled at farm level, not on research, innovation and new products, because that takes time, and not on getting exported right away, because it also takes time. Perhaps the focus should be on regulatory issues and such issues.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-460	Madam President, I would like I want to ask Ardalan Shekarabi my question. Now we will welcome reforms for pensioners. Important steps are the abolition of the pensioner's tax, the increase in the guarantee pension and the increase in the housing supplement. More needs to be done, however, because the entire pension system is underfunded. Many people receive only about half of their previous income in retirement, and in the future the risk is that some will only receive 40% of their previous salary in retirement. One objective that has been put forward is that we should receive 70% of our previous income in retirement. For example, if only 1% more were to be allocated to the pension, this would mean 20 billion more per year and perhaps an increase in value so that there would be 8% higher pensions.
i-QVFQR1QhTpRqZ9XMFHLoTm	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hillevi Larsson, for the question! We work in several steps. Pensions will be raised as early as 1 January. Just as Hillevi Larsson said, the guarantee pension and the housing supplement are increased. In 2021, the pension supplement will be introduced and there will be an increase in pensions for broad employee groups. We believe that this step should be followed by an increased payment to the pension system – an increase in the pension contribution. However, the parties in the Pensions Group do not agree on this. What we have been able to agree on is to review the fees. It is no secret what is our line in this, but now a review is being made. We will act to reach agreement with the parties in the Pensions Group so that contributions to the pension system can increase, because that is a prerequisite for achieving a goal that everyone should support: that everyone should have at least 70% of the final salary in retirement. Pensions must be increased.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-465	Madam President, I would like During the week we have taken note of the results from the PISA measurement. At first sight, positive developments are pleasing. At a deep dive in the result, I'm worried. The so-called fallout, students who were selected to attend but who for various reasons did not appear at the time of the test, has increased from 9.3 percent in the last measurement to 13.5 percent now. I am even more concerned when we stand out significantly when it comes to the proportion of 15-year-olds who are now present in the Swedish school system and who have not even been allowed to participate in the tests because their knowledge of the Swedish language is so low that they are not judged to be able to carry out the test in a meaningful way. Previously 5.7 per cent have become as much as 11.1 per cent – almost a doubling. This should be compared with the average of 4% for the entire OECD or the guideline that it should not exceed 5%.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-467	Madam President, I would like It is an important discussion about the PISA result, as this means a turnaround. Sweden's vice-chancellors and teachers should have a commendation that has worked hard in recent years and now can see that Sweden is above the OECD average in all three subjects that were examined, and we have a positive development in all subject areas. It is hard work from both students and teachers that is behind this. There have also been some efforts from politics that have made it possible, for example, to employ about 31 000 more people who work in Swedish schools. I'm a little worried that the Moderates are still trying to suspect the turnaround. These are the OECD rules; this is not something that Sweden has made up. The OECD has decided who should be included in the survey of the students being examined. It applies exactly the same rules to all countries. Then one can say that given the challenge that Sweden has had in the area of migration, it is amazing that all students, although we have had more students who have a foreign background in this measurement than before, perform better results.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-470	Madam President, I would like We have the world's healthiest population but at the same time the most people on sick leave. What worries me is that mental illness is growing and now accounts for half of all cases of sick leave in our country. We can't keep doing that. The vast majority of those who are on sick leave with psychiatric diagnoses are women in so-called contact professions – care, school, care. Försäkringskassan assesses sickness certificates and makes decisions based on a decision support that the National Board of Health and Welfare has produced. This decision support is definitely not adapted for psychiatric diagnoses. There is a very big difference between being assessed for a sick leave of a fracture in the foot and becoming so for a psychiatric diagnosis. We need a special rehabilitation trail for psychiatric diagnoses.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-473	Madam President, I would like I thank Elisabeth Rahm, Björnsdotter, for the issue and for her strong commitment to these issues. The Government has worked very actively with the issues relating to preventive work on sick leave and collaboration between different actors. We have launched an initiative to make the social partners take greater responsibility for better working conditions, which is, of course, a very important issue, not least in the contact professions. We have commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare and Försäkringskassan to work to improve the medical documentation and the medical assessments. This work has been presented, and there are also a lot of ideas on how to continue this work. This is, of course, a priority for the government alongside the process of ensuring that we have financial security in case of illness. This also means changing the regulatory framework, not least in the case of sickness benefit.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-476	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. It actually takes up where the Government left off its previous answer. Of course, when I meet representatives of trade unions and employers, we often discuss health insurance. These talks often take as their starting point the fact that it was very good that we abolished the so-called pre-stock in health insurance. But there is also a concern that health insurance does not really deliver the security it should provide to the individual. Above all, this is about people who have been on sick leave for a long period of time and who are insured out of work in order for them to be tested against the labour market as a whole.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-479	Madam President, I would like I thank Rikard Larsson for the question. My answer is yes; I share this concern. One of the darkest moments in this House was when it was applauded after the change of power in 2006 when the right to health insurance deteriorated by this House. Now we see the effect of this change of law. We see the effects on people who have worked hard in an entire working life and who get sick and end up in this problem. On 31 January, there will be an important inquiry into the right to sickness benefit – the assessment made in relation to normal work. My mission from Sweden's Prime Minister Stefan Löfven is to ensure that we improve health insurance and increase the financial security of the people who are ill.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-483	Madam President, I would like The gross gang crime is getting rougher and rougher. When you can murder a woman who holds her baby in her arms by shooting her in the head in the open street, it's so terrible that you almost don't want to believe it's true. Just last night, there were two murders and several attempted murders, and explosions in a townhouse. This is becoming a daily crime in Sweden, and I am very concerned. The report a few years ago has shown that foreign born people are over-represented in violent crimes. In 2017, Expressen made a survey of 192 convicted gang criminals. 40 per cent of them were born abroad and 82 per cent of them had two parents born abroad. Prime Minister Löfven denied in an interview in Agenda that there is a connection between gang criminals and immigration. He didn't see this coming. It's completely non-real. My question to Mikael Damberg is: Did Damberg see this coming?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-488	Madam President, I would like The Prime Minister pointed out that there is a connection between the growing segregation, the class divisions and the residential areas that have been left very much on their own, where the police have not been present and other authorities have not helped to keep order. It is in these environments that most shootings take place, it is in these environments that most drug sales take place and this is where the gangs are created and built up. So it is clear that this is a relevant issue that one cannot ignore how we stick together society and ensure that the state is strong enough to fight back. Then, and this is no news, people with foreign background are over-represented in the statistics on crime. It's a statistic that's been around for a very long time. But you can't paint criminals. No matter who commits a murder or robbery, this person is to be in prison, and then the law and judges must be color-blind.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-491	Madam President, I would like Consciousness is constantly increasing about the situation in our seas and in some of our fish stocks. In addition, Sweden has set high targets in terms of sea and marine resources against the next generation. In order for certain species to be present in our waters and also on our plates in the future, urgent and vigorous action is required. In addition, there must of course be dialogue with the relevant industries on sustainability and long-term rules of play. Therefore, I would like to ask the following question to the Minister for Rural Development Jennie Nilsson: What measures does the Minister consider most urgent in the near future in order to have a sustainable situation in our seas?
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-494	Madam President, I would like I thank Hanna Westerén for her question. I think we need to take a holistic approach to the whole situation that we have. There is not a solution that means that we protect our stocks, but we need to work broadly to ensure that we have viable stocks. Then we need to work both to regulate fishing and to have targeted measures to make the seas healthier, such as looking at other harmful organisms such as seals and other things that also affect the situation of cod, for example. It has consequences, not least for the industry. Then you need to work broadly on this too. We need to work with short-term efforts, but above all perhaps with long-term efforts. We need to have a dialogue with the industry on how it can contribute when you do not fish fully and perhaps pick up plastic, ghost nets and help to take environmental measures and much more. Nothing can be done without a good dialogue.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-497	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Rural Development is welcome to return to the speaker's seat. Last week I asked the Prime Minister how we strengthen the profitability of Swedish agriculture. When we in the EU pursue the line that we actually agree on in the EU Board, namely that we should reduce EU aid, we need to take national measures to strengthen profitability. The Prime Minister replied with the fact that the government has been pursuing a policy for two years to increase profitability, and I believe that agriculture does not notice it at all. I hope, of course, that the new EU agricultural policy will come up with good solutions, but we need to do things nationally. In the Moderates' budget, we have several proposals on how to strengthen profitability in the short term. I would therefore like to hear whether the government has any good proposals on how to strengthen profitability in the short term, before we have entered into the new agricultural policy.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-500	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, John Widegren! I share the picture that we need to work broadly. We need to work to get a good CAP from a Swedish perspective, and we need to work with national efforts. The tool we have chosen is that we are now working on a food strategy, which has been adopted in Parliament. It is based on working with long-term sustainable measures, such as research and innovation and so on, but it also needs to have a clear emphasis on working with things that affect at farm level. These include, for example, regulatory improvement work, investment funds for conversion and scale-up, and so on. I look forward to hearing the constructive ideas of the Moderates, according to John Widegren.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-503	Madam President, I would like I was going to touch on the field of outdoor organizations. Swedish Outdoor Life has 26 non-profit sub-organisations, which together have 1.6 million members. The sub-organisations consist of approximately 9 000 local and regional associations. They work on the basis of three comprehensive strategies: to strengthen the long-term funding of member organisations, to raise the status of outdoor life in society and to maintain and safeguard the right of access. The increase in sedentary sitting is today a major public health challenge, not least among children and young people. Natural relationships with movement and nature are becoming fewer, and so is everyday exercise. An important part of the work to reverse this development is precisely to strengthen the position of outdoor life in society. There are also great opportunities to reach cooperation with our Nordic neighbours, as the whole Nordic region has an outdoor life that is rich in different ways. In addition to many jobs, outdoor life has great economic value. It can be considered a process where an experience is created by visitors to nature through a combination of time, knowledge, facilities and resources. Accessibility is also important in rehabilitation, as nature and outdoor life have a strengthening and healing effect. The concept of open-air activities for public health is an opportunity for society to take more time in more sectors. Green care where animals and nature are used for health and rehabilitation purposes is one way, and another is to raise the level of knowledge both in school and in general. Already in the 19th century, outdoor activities were introduced at school. Experience-based learning is a strong motive for this. It doesn't have to be just more outdoor days, but it might be about introducing outdoor elements in the current schedule picture. Many use nature and outdoor life in different ways. Depending on the exercise, wear can occur on joints in vulnerable nature, among other things. A review of how to deal with various forms of wear and tear is therefore needed, not least in order to support the county boards' work on this. The Nordic Council of Ministers finances the organisation Nordforsk, which creates the conditions for Nordic research. The ambitions are efficiency, impact and quality in research collaboration and to contribute to the Nordic region being a world leader in research and innovation. There is an opportunity to highlight research on, among other things, outdoor life and public health, not only in the Nordic cooperation but also nationally. In view of this, we believe that an increase in funding is important.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-509	Madam President, I would like How nice to participate in a cultural debate in the Riksdag! As an environmental party, I want to see a strong cultural life in Sweden. Culture thrives in green ideology and is an important part of the green transition. Culture makes individuals and communities grow, and it offers meaningful leisure time, creative work and a better school. Culture is democracy-promoting but also climate-smart. Cultural life should be accessible to everyone, regardless of who you are, where you live and what background you have. These are values that are important to care for, and where the public has an important and important task. Madam President, I would like As the spokesperson of the Green Party on education and research, but also as a cultural politician, I would like to spend my minutes in this debate on an area in which culture and education cross one another, namely education. I want to do this because the whole idea of peoples' education and education is close to my green ideology. This is sometimes a somewhat forgotten area, which is last in the expenditure area of the budget bill, but it is a large area. A lot of money is allocated and affects many people – more than 600 000 people follow study circles, and more than 55 000 people take a longer course at a folk high school. This is the single largest item of expenditure in the budget. We have a wide geographical spread: Folkbildning is mainly about folk high schools, which we have in more than half of the country's municipalities, and student associations, which have activities in all the country's municipalities. In accordance with the decisions we have taken in this House, support for the formation of the population must follow four objectives. It is about strengthening democracy, strengthening people's ability to participate in social development and smoothing class gaps and strengthening education, but it is also about strengthening participation in cultural life. That's good purpose. The Green Party has also wanted a supplement on sustainability, which we had earlier when we had a division into areas of activity instead of objectives. However, I would like to stop at some of the aims. Culture and education go hand in hand. It is a starting point for people's education. It is about education that is free and voluntary, where you learn together and in interaction with others. Folkhögskolan, and perhaps more clearly the study associations, create meeting places for people with different backgrounds and conditions. It is the common interest in an area that brings different people together. New groups are involved, and they in turn engage in society – in society's challenges and in cultural life. Folkbildning is also a strong and growing player for education of foreign born, disabled and for people with little or no previous education. Within the expenditure area, there is also support for the work directed at asylum seekers and newcomers for an improved establishment in Swedish society. The study associations are a joint player who can handle it better than others, and that is why this task should remain there. Madam President, I would like The democratic task of peoples' education is something that is urgent – perhaps more urgent now than ever. While we are here in Parliament, in municipalities and in regions all over the country celebrating the 100th anniversary of democracy, the attacks on democracy are taking place widely. They come from several directions, and we know them almost as regular pulse beats. We're getting used to it. It's news of fake news. They come from the White House in Washington, from European countries where right-wing populist regimes have taken power and from parties established in our own parliament. The situation is serious. Democracy must be strengthened, and we need to do so in many ways. Peoples' education – study associations and folk high schools – plays a crucial role here. Folkhögskolas differ from universities, colleges and schools, among other things, in the absence of fixed curricula and learning and degree goals. It is freedom of education, which is adapted to the individual and where political governance is lacking. In education and research, we are talking about the importance of the free academy. In cultural policy, we are talking about arm's length. It is about politics providing conditions but not governing content. There is a natural advance in the formation of people. In addition to this, when it reaches many – to a variety of groups and to the whole country, from big cities to sparsely populated areas – the formation of people becomes a positive and important force for democracy. Madam President, I would like In the budget bill, we increase the funding for public education by SEK 21.5 million. This is to ensure the quality of the site development. Folkbildningen has a long tradition in Sweden. It has grown strong and will need to grow further. The budget proposal for 2020 is a step in this direction. I therefore support the proposal contained in the report.
i-7f2eb2b52a31eca9-523	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs to re-establish the social contract. Too many people in our elongated country feel that they do not get currency for their tax money. Despite your own toil – you're training, you're going to work and you're paying your taxes – the government doesn't deliver on the core tasks. The Swedish people have started to tire out, and it is hard to disagree. Unfortunately, in last week's budget vote, our moderate budget did not win a hand in this House, and I regret that. If it had become next year's state budget, the issue of security would have been addressed with investments in the police and the judiciary. It had made it more profitable for Sweden's low and middle wage earners to work, and it had reduced the tax even for pensioners who have an income below SEK 17 000 per month, unlike the economic policies of the January parties. It had invested widely in welfare, with increased general government subsidies. The moderate budget had given priority to re-establishing the social contract. Madam President, I would like With regard to the economic priorities of cultural policy, we Moderates want to transfer resources from adults, who should be able to pay more for their own cultural consumption, to children and young people, who, whatever their background, should be able to take part in culture and education, including with a view to enabling more class trips. If we allow adult working people to retain more of the earned salary to a greater extent, thereby increasing the freedom and self-determination of the individual, resources can be given priority to those who need it most. The Free-Entrance reform is a shining example of a total cultural policy misprioritising of the government. Adult people in Stockholm with good payability and foreign tourists can go to state museums for free, and it is funded by taxpayers all over the country. It is an unfair reform. In my county of Gävleborg there is not a single museum covered by the free-entry reform. Why should someone who lives in Nordanstig, Söderhamn or Sandviken pay foreign tourists' museum visits? Is it really the right priority today to use people's tax money? Madam President, I would like It is also a market-disrupting reform. Of course, not all those museums that do not have access to the free-entry reform can take part in this. Of course, private, successful museums, which have built up a good reputation on their own, must charge for making their business go together. Is it really the task of the state to compete with them? We Moderates don't think so. Madam President, I would like On 15 June 2016, almost three and a half years ago, the Parliament issued an announcement to the Government to urgently investigate the possibilities of production incentives and funding incentives for film productions. Almost two years ago, the Swedish Agency for Growth presented its report with suggestions on what incentives for film in Sweden could look like. For example, a tax reduction model could be envisaged for Swedish film production. Today, it is a major competitive disadvantage for Swedish films that most countries in our geographical vicinity have these structures for film recordings, but not Sweden. It draws capital and competence out of the country. The industry is stomping. The Minister for Culture has stated on a number of occasions that there is a need for production incentives, yet nothing is happening in this area. Here the government must move from words to actions, otherwise the future of Swedish cinema is at risk. Madam President, I would like The January parties focus on their 73-point list and are unable to lift their eyes to see what is going on out there. We Moderates take our starting point in social problems and want to give priority to what is most important, including in cultural policy. Sweden has major challenges, and we simply need to re-establish the social contract.
