i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-0	Madam President, I would like Last Thursday, in fact on Europe Day, EU leaders met in the city of Sibiu in Romania to discuss the EU's political orientation for the next five years. Prior to the meeting, the Romanian Presidency had produced a political declaration called the Sibiu Declaration. As I informed the EU Council before the meeting, this declaration describes in general terms how the EU Member States should cooperate. The declaration is therefore not about the substantive policy issues that the EU has to deal with, but about our approach to each other. All countries were able to support the declaration at the meeting and it was adopted without amendment. The main purpose of the meeting was to continue the discussion on the future of the EU. This discussion is an important basis for the strategic agenda to be decided at the June summit. During the conversation, everyone highlighted their own priorities. On behalf of Sweden, I particularly stressed the importance of standing up for our common values, that the EU continues to be the leader in meeting the climate challenge, that we strengthen the work for competitiveness, sustainable growth and more and better jobs, that we continue to work for a legally secure and sustainable common migration policy, and that we continue to strengthen both our internal and external security work, where the EU can act as a strong foreign policy actor. The discussion at the meeting was rather sprawling. There were many areas involved, but there were some issues that returned and that left a clear mark on the meeting. Perhaps the clearest example is the climate issue – the destiny of our time. What is crucial is that we keep the temperature increase to one and a half degrees. In order to achieve this, Sweden and many others believe that the EU's objective must be to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. It is gratifying that there is now a real force in the climate work. Many young people, often inspired by Greta Thunberg, make their voices heard, and so happened in Sibiu. A large number of young people arranged a manifestation for the climate alongside the meeting. They brought with them an open letter calling on EU leaders to take responsibility for the climate. Together with some leaders from countries that have made a joint input on the climate for the Sibiu meeting, I went out to meet the young people and receive the letter. It is also gratifying to report that Latvia has now joined this group of like-minded people who are driving the climate issue in the EU. Another important issue is how the EU should contribute to high competitiveness, sustainable growth and more and better jobs. Many highlighted the social dimension and pressed for issues such as the right conditions and support for transition. EU cooperation should be there for people, not just for businesses. The internal market is a core issue for the EU, and I and several others stressed the importance of making full use of its potential. We do this by continuing to remove barriers to trade and by better implementing and applying existing legislation. Economic and competitiveness issues are directly linked to the EU's role in the world. In that discussion, much came to be said about the EU's need to be a strong player in a changing world. Among other things, China's development and how the EU should react to this great economic power, as well as the consequences of a weakened transatlantic link, were discussed. There's a difference here. Some believe that the EU needs to adapt and sometimes adopt measures taken by China, among others. This means, for example, strengthening one's own companies through state aid and protecting one's home market through tariffs and restrictions. Others, including Sweden, believe that we should not be naive to the challenges that actually exist but that at the same time we should stick to things that we know contribute positively to our economy. This applies, for example, to the internal market, but also to rules on state aid and competition, as well as to open and free trade. Protectionism is not the way to go. It is the market – not politics – that is to choose which companies are to grow. There is a broad consensus that the EU needs to take greater responsibility for its own security and that cooperation in the fields of defence and security needs to be strengthened. It is not least about the work to combat cross-border crime and terrorism, where we know that there is a direct link between external action and our internal cooperation. This is part of our common security. Another part of the discussion was about migration. I stressed the need to put in place a common and solidarity-based asylum policy in which everyone takes joint responsibility. External aspects, with more cooperation to combat root causes and to secure borders, are also important. Last but not least, I would like to address the issues of valuation. There are many of us who see that our common values form the basis of the whole of European cooperation. We can never compromise on fundamental democratic values or the principles of the rule of law. My assessment is that there are good conditions for a good discussion ahead of the June European Council, but it is also clear that well-known stumbling blocks on issues such as climate and migration remain. Finally, Madam President, Donald Tusk presented the process to the high-level appointments to take place after the elections to the European Parliament. This will come up next at a special European Council meeting to be held in Brussels on 28 May. The focus is then to have a discussion on principles and on the process itself. Name questions will then be considered. With this, Madam President, I will conclude my re-report from the meeting in Sibiu.
i-G5QBu4tEXxFYQmc8MasXcq	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the European Council report. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we broadly welcome the Sibiu Declaration. The fact that the Heads of State or Government in Europe have agreed to focus on achieving results on the most important issues is interpreted as giving priority to real cross-border issues. This is good; it is fully in line with Moderates' view of European cooperation. In concrete terms, it would be good if this meant less focus on the social pillar and on the detailed regulation of the Swedish labour market and social policy and, instead, an increased focus precisely on achieving results on cross-border issues, which Sweden and other Member States cannot solve on their own. The climate challenge, raised by the Prime Minister, is an example of a truly cross-border issue. Emissions need to be reduced rapidly, and the EU needs to raise its climate ambitions. Europe also has a particular responsibility to show that it is possible to reconcile declining emissions with strong economic development. The UN Panel on Climate Change has pointed out that there are two factors that are crucial to meeting the climate goals ahead: renewable energy and nuclear power. The EU must now take a serious discussion, we think moderates, about the conditions for nuclear power in Europe. Of course, the countries decide their own energy mix, but much of the preconditions for nuclear power are determined at European level after all. Among other things, we Moderates want to double the funding for European nuclear research in order to speed up the development of the next generation of nuclear power. We also want to double the funds to invest in the interconnection of the European electricity grid to enable the export of more climate-smart electricity within the EU.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-26	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is important that we manage cross-border activities well together. Part of this is also a common labour market. I think it is a good thing that we have a strong internal market in Europe, with the potential to meet the great economic powers around the world. This means, among other things, free movement. But it is also important that the labour market is characterised by fair conditions. It cannot be that the women and men who work together welfare should not have the right conditions and social security. Of course, there should not be detailed regulation at national level, nor is it the ambition of the social pillar in any way. The labour market is one of the more important issues. Another is, of course, the energy supply combined with the climate adaptation that the whole world needs to do. We have an Energy Union with a very clear approach that countries should decide their own energy mix. It follows that the country that wants to invest in nuclear energy must of course do so. However, there is an important perspective in terms of climate change. To now start researching nuclear energy – you can research what you want; the research is free – will not save us here and now. Our transition is far too urgent for any nuclear power to be researched in 15 to 20 years' time. Sweden has a strong energy agreement. I hope we all stand up for it. It also provides opportunities for anyone who wants to invest in nuclear energy. The problem now is that not so many people want to. We will have an energy surplus, and we shall be happy about that. We will ensure that we have both the energy surplus and the effect required at any given time.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-32	Madam President, I would like Sweden is the climate leader in Europe, thanks to the fact that we have managed to reduce our emissions with hydropower, nuclear power and district heating. Today, only some percent of our electricity generation is fossil-based. In the rest of Europe, the figure and the situation are quite different. In the EU, the average is 40% for fossil-based electricity production. In some countries, such as Poland, over 80% are fossil-based. I find it regrettable that the Prime Minister does not really seem to take on board what the UN Panel on Climate Change points out about the importance of nuclear power. Nuclear power is important to meet the climate challenge. It is not a question of starting research and of nuclear power being a new technology, but of course of taking further steps to make the technology much better. It is regrettable that the Prime Minister does not want to take these steps. I wonder, of course, why the Prime Minister is not prepared to take these steps and what the Prime Minister and Government want to do instead.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-35	Madam President, I would like Yes, it's true that we're climate leaders, and we're supposed to be climate leaders. We want the EU to be a global climate leader. It is not the case that the climate panel is in favour of one or the other, nor of nuclear power. They have expressed a number of scenarios. It is a fact that this is a national competence. When you complain that the social seems to be supranational, this is a fact. This, too, is a national competence. We have received a broad energy agreement in Sweden. It gives us long-term prospects. Swedish industry and households now know the conditions for a long time to come. There is also an expansion of both wind and solar power. I hope that Johan Hultberg also read this weekend in one of the morning newspapers about the huge investment that is being made on the sun. The sun can provide all mankind, the whole earth, the electricity needed. Let us develop what is both climate-friendly and recyclable.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-40	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. The strategic plan is quite unconcrete so far. But one of the elements of the strategic plan, which has been widely discussed in Sweden, throughout the EU and in the Council over the past period, is migration policy. Europe's borders must be protected. There seems to be broad agreement on this today, although there are different views on exactly how to do it. We cannot get a situation again where some countries, such as Sweden, make themselves very attractive asylum countries and thus attract a great many asylum seekers. It is therefore interesting to look at the basic safety regulation that is being discussed at European level but on which we do not yet have a decision. The government's line here has been to encourage countries to be allowed to grant permanent residence permits over temporary ones. My question to the Prime Minister is whether this is still the government's line and why it is important, in that case, to be allowed to grant asylum seekers permanent residence permits over temporary ones.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-44	Madam President, I would like It is true that this discussion must be made more concrete, and it will be on the agenda at the June summit. I'm looking forward to that. Donald Tusk had good input into how we protect our citizens and freedoms, how we develop the economic base, the importance of a European model for the future, that we build a greener, fairer and more inclusive future, and that we also emphasise Europe's interests and values in our world. I think it was good headlines. Now we need to narrow this down so that we have a more concrete agenda. Migration policy is part of this agenda. There are now discussions on seven pieces of legislation, one of which is on the regulation mentioned by Martin Kinnunen here. That discussion continues. There is a choice here of permanent or temporary residence permits. It is a regulation which, in that case, will mean that we have the same rules, whatever the choice will be. The most important thing is that we have the same basic rules as our closest world, the European continent. Then we have both of them to choose from. The argument for the permanent residence permit is often that integration takes place faster. This discussion is ongoing. Let's see how it ends; it's not finished yet.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-48	Madam President, I would like Permanent residence permits are one of the main pull factors when it comes to asylum immigration. That is why this is interesting to discuss. The reason why the Swedish government has pushed for temporary residence permits, albeit temporarily, is well the compromise within the divided Social Democratic Party, where more liberal forces wanted to roll back the more restrictive immigration policy in favour of a more liberal one. That is why the compromise was reached to push for more liberal rules at European level. It has been the government's position to grant more permanent residence permits under the possible future common asylum policy. I wonder specifically why the government thinks it is important to push for this at European level, because here in Sweden it has been said that temporary residence permits are important, at least right now.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-51	Madam President, I would like There is a direct link between Sweden and our immediate environment, and it is extremely important. We saw what happened in the autumn of 2015. It was not a sustainable situation. That's why the rules were changed. We have gone to the level that applies in principle to our closest world in Europe, and that is where we shall remain. It is therefore important what the regulatory framework in the EU will be. And that is why we are spending so much time on establishing a common regulatory framework in the EU, because we do not have it on the ground in Sweden in this respect. This link is extremely important, so we will continue with it. It is slow in some places, particularly as regards how the reception of refugees is to be distributed. Not all countries want to join in taking joint responsibility. It's probably the hardest nut. But the other pieces of legislation are actually moving forward. We will continue to work. It is important that we get an EU regulatory framework in place. Then Sweden can also have a regulation that fits this and does not stand out.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-55	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for the report from the meeting in Sibiu. It is always interesting to hear how the discussions have gone and what moves at this type of meetings. What the Prime Minister had with him was a political declaration that did not require much and on which there was agreement. At the same time, it was a start for the continued strategic work and the future, which is welcome after many meetings with a focus on Brexit. At last, we must focus on the future and development of the European Union. What has nevertheless become clear during the Brexit process is that there is strong support, a consensus and an understanding that it is together that we stand strong and that each of us cannot face up to the major challenges ahead. We have a number of difficult nuts to crack in the future, and the Prime Minister described Sweden's priorities in terms of values, climate issues, competitiveness, the rule of law and the security of the area. I'm thinking about climate issues. There are some different lines and positions. We are happy to press for further demands to be made and that we will continue to be the leader in this. However, there are countries that are not taking these steps, and it is not out of spite but because they see that they will find it difficult to cope with it nationally. How are the discussions on how to meet and do this together so that the steps can be taken, the positions moved forward and the objectives gladly brought forward? What are the discussions on how to help each other to implement this?
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-60	Madam President, I would like Yes, it feels good not to always have to talk Brexit – although that discussion will continue, so unfortunately we will still have it for a while longer. But we're going to get through it in the best possible way. My genuine feeling is that there is an understanding that we have to work together; it looks like that in the outside world. But again: there are differences of opinion, and the climate issue is one. I share Annika Qarlsson's view that it is not a question of malice but that we have different conditions. But this discussion was not held at this meeting. Of course, we need to look at the objectives together, and then different measures are needed for different countries, depending on the situation. At the same time, we should remember that it is a matter of strong economic interests, for example in the coal industry. We need to help each other with what needs to be done. First, however, we must conclude that we need to have an ambitious agenda and ambitious objectives linked to an action plan for how this is to be done. Where emissions are at their highest, it must go the fastest, and that will mean individual solutions. We must have this discussion, because otherwise we can only fight for percentages, which does not lead very far. We need to go further and see what is actually enabling us to bring emissions down country by country.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-65	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Something that is important to have with you and that has been included in Sweden's position and in the Swedish companies' work is to make the development linked to the environment and climate a competitive advantage. It is important to broaden this concept in future work. The Prime Minister also said that competitiveness must be safeguarded. While we must not be naive about what is happening in other countries, we must stand up for the values that are important to us. In what way can we find a balance in this, and what red lines exist so that we do not take steps and do ourselves a disservice?
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-68	Madam President, I would like The first is an important attitude, to make climate change an opportunity. This points to an increasing number of Swedish companies. Even as a country, we can point out that one can increase economic growth and bnp while managing the climate. It is precisely this mental attitude that must be adopted. It was therefore gratifying that the Prime Minister of Latvia announced that Latvia is joining the group of countries that think it should proceed more quickly. In the discussion he mentions that it is precisely for this reason, that it is an opportunity and not a burden. As far as competitiveness is concerned, I believe that competitiveness and climate change go hand in hand.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-71	Madam President, I would like I have carefully read the declaration of the summit. That is ten points and not a really long declaration. It is worrying, to say the least, that the environment and climate are only mentioned at the end, with the wording that the EU should address issues such as preserving the environment and combating climate change. As far as I understand from the Prime Minister's speech, the Prime Minister at the summit pushed for an increased focus on the climate issue, which was a good thing. The Prime Minister will be happy to comment on that. The climate situation is acute. In recent months, several reports have pointed this out. The UN climate report from the IPCC, which came last autumn, states that we must do more at all levels, not least at the political level, if we are to keep to one and a half degrees. Last week, there was a report that around 1 million plant and animal species were endangered, and climate change is one of the main driving forces. We also see that emissions in Sweden are increasing. Last week, the Irish Parliament declared an emergency for the climate. The week before, the British Parliament declared a similar emergency for the climate, driven by the Socialist Labour Party. Does the Prime Minister intend to announce a similar emergency for the climate in Sweden? I do not think that solves all the problems, but it would be a clear signal that we politicians are taking the climate issue as seriously as possible. Not least, it would be a signal to the climate protesters, inspired by Greta Thunberg, to whom the Prime Minister referred.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-76	Madam President, I would like The first declaration, the Sibiu Declaration, was not concerned with substantive policy issues but was more about approach. It may be so important, but it doesn't determine the future. But in the basis of the agenda discussion, which the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, sent out, a chapter was about precisely building a greener, fairer and more inclusive future. Here sustainability, secure access to energy, environmental conservation and the management of the climate issue were raised, so these issues are clearly included in the declaration. However, as I have said before, it is not the case that everyone suddenly feels the same, but it will be a discussion of how far to go in objectives, strategies and so on. Sweden, together with France and others, took an initiative and sent a letter specifically for this discussion saying that we need to move faster. It was also the leaders of these countries who met the demonstrating young people. Should we have a similar emergency? It was not discussed at this summit. But what we in Sweden have done that is important and that many are looking at is to see how we deal with this structurally and systematically as quickly as it ever goes. Therefore, the Swedish climate framework is a good structure to stick to. It points to the need for the whole policy to move in the right direction and for all policy areas to consider how to tackle climate change. For this there are clear objectives, and each government will have to report an action plan – precisely because it is urgent.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-82	Madam President, I would like The climate policy framework and the climate law, which we now have in Sweden, is a good structure – I fully agree with the Prime Minister. A declaration of an emergency for the climate will be to go one step further. It will also be a way for us politicians to send a clear signal to all those who are committed and concerned about climate change and say that we are taking this issue as seriously as possible and that we are going to do more than we have done so far. As I understand it, that is precisely why British Labour has pushed the issue of emergency and also got it through in the British Parliament. I would like to ask the Prime Minister once again: does the Prime Minister think there is an emergency for the climate? Should we not say so and then act accordingly?
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-85	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that the situation is serious, and that is why we should do as much as we can ever and constantly raise ambition. Now we in Sweden agree on the climate framework with objectives, and then the government will develop action plans. That is how we should continue to work. We will do this together with all the actors, and we will do it together with companies and organisations. That is why we are making sure that it is invested in the climate life around our country. In fact, we have an ongoing people's movement on the climate issue. Solar cells are installed here, and there are investments in wind power, biogas plants and charging poles around the country. The heading of this must be subordinated. The most important thing is that we have a very clear understanding of the problem and the seriousness of the situation, but above all of what we are doing and how we are creating opportunities and that we are not only noticing the negative, but also the opportunities. I think that is the most important thing.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-88	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. As many people have mentioned, there were extensive areas to be negotiated, and one would only say something horizontal about what direction it wants for the EU in the future. Good, but with regard to the statement, there are two things I have reacted to. One is that we should stand united no matter what happens. This is great, but how does the Prime Minister view cohesion now? We have Hungary and the situation there, and we have Brexit and the United Kingdom, who are allowed to attend certain meetings but not others. After all, Hungary sat in when you said that we should stick together in wet and dry. How does the Prime Minister view this? We Christian Democrats have acted within the EPP Group, which is the political group in which we participate, in favour of the exclusion of Hungary there. It has now lost its influence in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and cannot take part in various decisions. The EU's current methods of punishment are that those who fail to fulfil their obligations under the EU's values, such as the rule of law, cannot participate in the European Council. This is in accordance with Article 7, as the Prime Minister knows. Does the Prime Minister think that Hungary should be excluded from the European Council? Or what does the Prime Minister want to do to bring about a consensus on values as well? Has the Prime Minister spoken on the issue within the EU Group with regard to Hungary?
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-92	Madam President, I would like First of all, I think Désirée Pethrus is giving an important overview. It is important to see this. When you sit in the European Council, it feels like there is some kind of fundamental cohesion and a need for it. That is absolutely necessary. But of course, I'm also thinking from time to time. The Brexit situation weakens the EU – it does not strengthen the EU. The fact that we have some countries that absolutely do not want to take any responsibility in migration policy, at least not so far, does not strengthen Europe. The war of words that we have had, at least between Italy and France, is also not to the benefit of a strong Europe. So there are hot spots and things that we have to deal with. That is precisely why the future discussion is important – that we can agree on the direction we should take, both in terms of approach to each other and in terms of substantive policy issues. In Hungary, an Article 7 procedure has been initiated, and we have expressed support for the Commission's doing so. It is the Commission that must make this assessment at every given step. It is not going in the right direction, for example, with regard to the freedom of academia, and this is obvious when a university is forced to move. But it is also for other reasons. I am not prepared to give an exact opinion on this. I am therefore not prepared to express the fact that it is now time for exclusion, but this must follow the Article 7 procedure which is in force and which is led by the Commission. Nor will there be any unanimous support for such a measure in all likelihood. However, I believe – and I have expressed this – that if we do not follow our joint decisions and stand up for our values on, for example, the issue of migration, it should have economic consequences. Hungary is the country that receives the most support from the European Union per capita, and it cannot be reasonable for it to receive only money and not stand up for our jointly agreed decisions.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-96	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I hope that we agree that we must take a strong stance against Hungary and the negative democratic development that is taking place there. This is also bearing on another point contained in the Sibiu Declaration, namely responsible world leaders. As regards the situation of human rights statements, we in the Christian Democrats have proposed qualified majority voting for such statements by the Council. How does the Prime Minister view it? This is also bearing on the situation in Libya, which is now serious. What are the EU leaders doing now? Was this not discussed? It is an unsustainable situation for migrants in Libya, as it stands now. In some way they must be helped either to return to their countries or to make their asylum applications in some way. How does the Prime Minister view the situation there?
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-99	Madam President, I would like With regard to the crackdown on Hungary and Poland, there is also a need for Romania, which has a far too weak attitude towards corruption, quite clearly. We must stand up for values, because that is crucial. If the Union is not only to hold, but also to develop, values – this foundation – must be there, and then we shall stand up for it. Whether it should be QMV or not, we have not discussed it, nor have I taken a position on it. I don't think it would be possible to get there either. It was clear from Orbán's and Hungary's side, for example, that a qualified majority on foreign policy issues is out of the question because, he says, there are so different starting points. However, this does not prevent and should not prevent the EU from acting in, for example, Libya, Syria and a number of countries. This is also done, not least through the High Representative.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-101	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. I think there are many of us in here who agree that the Sibiu Declaration is a good election manifesto and speech in the EP elections, which are now rolling over Europe. I think the common positions feel good. As many of the previous speakers and also the Prime Minister himself have said, the concrete work remains to be done, and it remains to be seen what this can lead to. There is a lot of work ahead of us in Europe. My question to the Prime Minister is: how can we ensure that this is being observed in concrete terms? Unfortunately, we are seeing major rifts between countries, we are seeing the situation in Hungary, on which Mrs Pethrus was concerned, and we see the situation in Poland, which can be interpreted as going in the wrong direction. We have a messy situation with Britain and Brexit. How, then, can we fix this and actually make this declaration seen as a possible way forward? That brings me to what the Prime Minister has already touched on a little, namely the budgetary issues. How can agreement be found on a budget that actually makes it expensive not to follow the joint declarations that we are jointly establishing on human rights, democracy and development in Europe?
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-106	Madam President, I would like The concrete work is quite rightly ahead of us. The Sibiu Declaration in all its glory, but it is now afterwards that it will happen. Work is now under way on several of these perspectives. I am thinking of the climate, migration and security. It is not entirely a fresh start. But it is absolutely right that, after the European elections – with a new European Parliament, with a new Commission, with a new President of the Commission, with a new President of the European Council and so on – it must be a major step forward. These have a slightly different character. In the case of Hungary, the procedure laid down in the Treaty on how to deal with this continues. But it is probably so important now to ensure that the values are respected again, otherwise we are undermining the whole of the Union. Brexit lives his own life, if you can put it that way, and just make sure that we all help to do it as pragmatically and as well as possible. Right now it doesn't look good; just admit it. In fact, there is a risk of a crash out of the EU. It would be very serious, both for the European Union and for the United Kingdom, but above all for the United Kingdom. Many had been looking forward to the budget discussion being completed this year. I have never believed in this possibility, and it will not be so for the reasons that Bengt Eliasson also points to here. We have different views on, not least, what it will cost not to comply with the EU acquis. However, I see a slight increase in the number of countries that think it must also cost if we do not stand up for joint decisions. That is not to say that there is unanimity in favour of it. But this is a factor which, not least, some of the large countries have also made very clear. We therefore support this approach. But there are still many difficult discussions before it is finished.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-112	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I would like to highlight a particular issue which the Prime Minister himself has touched on several times, namely the social pillar. It is about the joint work to deepen cooperation, to talk more with each other and to learn from each other in a deeper way forward. It must be stressed that the social pillar is more than just the labour market, which the Prime Minister has been working on. It is more than just a common set of rules and so on around these parts. It is, in fact, about the social situation at large for the citizens of Europe, both how we view each other's citizens and how the states view their own citizens. How are these talks going between countries? We know, of course, that here too there is a deep disagreement among the states of Europe on how to look at these incredibly important issues in order for the EU to be the deepening force that we so much want.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-115	Madam President, I would like When the social pillar was discussed, the starting point was that this is a matter of national decision-making rights. That is why those who may not be as proactive, if I put it that way, on these issues have accepted this. We should remember that when this was discussed, all the countries of the European Union gathered in Gothenburg, and everyone has said that this is a good thing that they want to push forward for precisely the reason that Europe must be more than anything for just capital and businesses. It is important in itself, and this market is important. But it is actually the employees around the public and private sectors – across all sectors – who make sure to create the values, and they need to feel a certain level of social security. I believe that this will be the case, in other words that we have common elements here that we are setting up. We measure and compare with each other. We get experiences from each other and learn from each other. Then we can move the social dimension forward.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-117	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. You met in Romania on the anniversary of the Union that preceded the Union that we have today, the Coal and Steel Union, which was fully in focus in order to avoid future wars on our continent. In a way, it is a bit ironic that it is still coal and steel that are at the centre and that must be in focus, but in a completely different way, during the 2020s. Then it's about getting rid of the coal and making it stay in the ground. We must ensure that we have a carbon-free production of steel. It is therefore gratifying to hear that the climate issue was one of the issues that many people raised during the meeting and wanted to see as a priority. But there is a picture that has been etched in my memory and in many others, I think. This is the picture from the UN meeting in Copenhagen when U.S. President Barack Obama, Chancellor Merkel and Fredrik Reinfeldt from Sweden sit late at night and look very impeccable and have given up on moving forward on the climate issue. They gave up agreeing on what they really needed to agree on back then. I find that appalling for many reasons. It is, of course, terrible for the climate but also for confidence in democracy. I therefore believe that it is incredibly important that we demonstrate democratically that we are ready to resolve this situation. Does the Prime Minister think that the initiative that Sweden took together with many other countries can be one of the things that will enable us to find these solutions in a democratic way? Actually, it's not that technically difficult. But political courage is required, and we must have the courage to do so together.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-121	Madam President, I would like For my part, I was happy that the climate still had so much room for many people. As I said, Latvia has now said that they are in and that they want to be in this group. If we can get more people to have this attitude, it is clear that this will be considerably facilitated. The situation was probably as serious when the Copenhagen meeting took place, but it is more obvious now that there is no way back. We have to cope with climate change. Perhaps this insight has nevertheless been reinforced in the ten years since the Copenhagen meeting. In this sense, we have a new situation where it is easier to talk about objectives now, although countries have different views on how tough one can go forward. However, I believe that this is about the combination of the common objectives and the joint effort and that, as has already been mentioned here in the debate, we are also helping each other. Those who have a longer journey need stronger support, quite simply. We have to face that. Basically, everyone's need and desire for a growth that will allow welfare to increase. Our view of this is that this is how we should tackle climate change. It is through new jobs, new technologies and so on that real growth comes. Actually, I think a lot of things are psychology when we're going to change. If countries think that climate change is getting worse and if you take responsibility, then it becomes more difficult. But our ambition is to emphasise that things are getting better all the time. And we'll help each other. This is probably such important information in this discussion.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-124	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. The Prime Minister is already on the issue I was going to raise, namely that everyone must see that this climate change is taking place fairly. The Prime Minister spoke here about the need for us nations to help each other. I also think it is important to see that individuals must be helped together. Like the Prime Minister, the real threat to a good life is that we do nothing to the climate threat. It is by doing something about it and doing it together that we can guarantee everyone a good life. However, this does not prevent individuals from getting caught up in this change. Then, together, we must ensure that everyone can feel confident that we are doing this change in a fair way, but also in a way that enables us to increase equality and ensure that everyone can actually live a good life. How does the Prime Minister view this? Is there support for this insight also among EU leaders?
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-127	Madam President, I would like To be honest, we don't talk much about the individual part, that is, the commitment and need for support of people. But it is absolutely necessary. You have to go all the way. This applies to the individual countries, but it also applies to what we can do to genuinely support the peoples' movement for climate change. That's what it takes. For the Swedish part, there is something that we may be able to spread more. Although we are not the best at all times, I believe in the green tax shift, which we are now going to tackle – it is about 15 billion. It means that it will be more expensive with emissions and what pollutes and so on. But we can then use that to support you as an individual in that transition. So you don't get the bill alone, we do this together. We want people to do the right thing. People want to do the right thing. And we're gonna make it easier for people to do the right thing. It is therefore a question of both land and individual level.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-130	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me when the government intends to produce a bill with proposals for amendments to the Water Services Act to allow for increased construction outside urban areas, reduce lead times in planning processes and accelerate the removal of a large number of individual sewers that do not comply with current legislation. The Government has noted that some municipalities perceive the obligation to provide water services under Section 6 of the Act on Public Water Services as an obstacle to new construction in rural areas. In May 2017, the Government commissioned a special investigator to review municipalities' obligation to provide public services. The investigator would, among other things, develop proposals to facilitate construction and increase the proportion of approved sewage facilities in rural areas. The study on sustainable water services presented its report Roads to sustainable water services in May 2018. The study suggests that when assessing the need for public water services, the municipality should be able to consider alternatives to public water and sewage in order to achieve an equivalent level of protection for human health and the environment. According to the study, this gives the municipality greater flexibility for individual solutions, which could facilitate construction outside urban areas. The study also proposes a set of other actions, including the development of improved knowledge base, skills development, development of supervisory guidance and the review of opportunities to provide support to municipalities for va-advice. A further proposal from the study is that there is a need to develop a system for the collection of data on small sewers, for example in order to have access at municipal level to a planning basis that can be used in supervisory planning, va-planning and overview and detailed planning. According to the investigator, if the proposals are implemented, this could help to make it easier for property owners to do the right thing when it comes to small sewage plants. This could help to speed up the removal of non-approved sewers. Roads to sustainable water services have been referred, and the Council is currently asking for the report.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-135	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for coming here on a Monday to debate va-solutions! I do not think we have very great differences of opinion on this. But it is important to illustrate. I say we have a housing crisis in Sweden. We would have to build some 70 000 new homes a year, but we are down to about 40 000 homes a year. This affects citizens in different ways of life, those who need to change homes but also those who need to enter the housing market and get their own home for the first time. This is a very important question for me. Building housing is not only a task for the large municipalities but also for the small ones. To cope with the housing crisis, the whole country needs to help build new homes. It is exciting that even the smaller municipalities see a need for it and that they would like to do so. In addition to the actual cost of construction, which in many cases exceeds the value of what you build, both municipalities and individual property owners feel that the rigid laws more or less force municipalities to push out municipal waste in areas that are becoming slightly larger, although there can be good alternative solutions both economically and environmentally. As a result, municipalities refrain from planning and building new housing in areas that are otherwise excellent for housing. The costs are too high when it comes to va, and the consequences for some local residents are also very economically felt if you va-analyze an area. This affects not only newly built dwellings, but also dwellings that exist in an area of the past. However, it is not taken into account whether or not the environmental requirements that have been laid down have been working well in the past. It is also not taken into account whether the individual drain has been created a year ago or five years ago. In short, the laws surrounding this are not updated based on today's situation. It is necessary for municipalities to be able to build on attractive places where it is not always environmentally or economically justifiable to draw municipal elections. Even many alternative solutions are so good environmentally, I would argue. I do not want the Minister to misunderstand me on this point. It is extremely important that we have va-plants that meet the environmental objectives we have and that help us in our environmental endeavours. We will find the va-solutions that do not meet the requirements for the environmental objectives we set, and in many of these cases municipal is the best option. However, I think it is economically wasteful to remove a va-plant that according to measurements is as good as the municipal va-plant, just because we think it should always be municipal va. We need to focus on the environment and economic benefits. We should not compromise on the environmental benefits, but we should not remove fully functioning va-plants without making an economic assessment. Let us build where people want to live and make a va-solution that is adapted to the conditions in the area. The answer given by the Minister for the Environment is a repetition of the investigation which has been set up and which has produced its final report. I may think that several of the proposals in the report would facilitate the situation. Give municipalities a better opportunity to create waste water facilities that are both environmentally and economically viable. This would lead to an increase in housing construction in smaller municipalities. Then the property owner who has invested in a good va-plant and who has done his part would not have to worry about being forced into municipal va and paying the bill twice. The Minister failed to answer when there might be a proposal based on this report. When does the Minister think we can expect a bill?
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-146	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Larry Söder! I agree that we do not have different views on this. It is extremely important to be able to build housing throughout the country, and rural areas are also important for the supply of housing. The Government has noted that municipalities feel that the obligation to provide water services means that, for safety reasons, new housing in rural areas is being prevented. In fact, if the sewage facilities or water services do not function satisfactorily and are hazardous to health or the environment, the responsibility falls back on the municipalities. It's a big responsibility. And it is important that we have functioning water services, so that we do not risk health and the environment. It is precisely on this basis that the investigation has been carried out. We've got the referrals. In the Government Office, work is now under way to look at them, to see how we can move forward on this issue. That's exactly what Larry Söder says. There are very serious issues linked to water and sewage. We know that poorly purified sewers pose a risk of spreading infectious agents such as bacteria, viruses and drug residues that are a danger to human health. We also know that it can contribute to the eutrophication of our watercourses, lakes and seas. The contribution of nitrogen and phosphorus from one's wedged sewers is not negligible, especially during the summer months. They account for just over 10 per cent of the supply of phosphorus to water in Sweden if the natural background load is removed from forest land, for example. The individual sewers are the main source of eutrophication during the summer months when the runoff from arable and forest land is small. It is, of course, both an environmental and health issue that must be taken into account and taken very seriously. It's my responsibility. My colleague, and former colleague, the Minister for Housing, is responsible for the housing supply. We agree in the government that we need to make it easier to ensure good housing provision throughout the country. Rural areas must have the right conditions for building there as well. I note that the study includes the proposal that municipalities should be able to take into account alternatives to general water and sewage in order to provide an equivalent level of protection for human health and the environment. In addition, there is a wide range of other proposals which are very important. It is about how to provide opportunities to support municipalities for example va-advice, competence development, development of supervisory guidance and more. We are looking at all this at the moment in the Government Office, and we intend to come back on these issues.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-155	Madam President, I would like The Minister and I agree that we should, of course, try to find and fix the va-plants that do not work. In many cases, municipal is the best option when you are not able to handle it on your own. What I am opposed to is the treatment of those who are able to handle it on their own. They invest in a va-plant, perhaps a joint plant, that works. Five, six, seven or eight years later you do a va-cleaning, i.e. the municipality pulls out municipal va. Then the investment they have made will be really unnecessary, economically but also for the environment. They have to pay a financial cost for the municipality as a charge. Nowadays a connection to the municipality costs not a small sum but a fairly large amount of money. Therefore, I think that we should look at what benefit we get for the environment? Economic impact assessments can then be carried out on the two components. But the focus must be that we have the best possible environment. I have been contacted by many individuals who are concerned about the future of the individual sewers. They wonder why it takes such a time for the investigation proposals to be presented, handled by the government and put on the table of the Riksdag. These are matters that are urgent for individuals not to suffer major financial consequences. I can fully understand it if they have spent quite a lot of money in a va-plant and it is about time that the municipality will pull out municipal va. The municipalities feel that they have no alternative. It would be good if we could give them another option. There are many of us who have read the investigation proposal and the letter from the 23 municipal councillors from different parties. They point to how the case law of today's three legislations on water and sewage greatly complicates the construction of more homes. That is also what the Minister says, and that is the basis for the investigation. The latest example is Norr Mälarstrand in Köping municipality where many are worried. The municipality, with the support of these laws, intends to draw municipal authority out to an area of 235 properties where 40 are all year round housing. The impact of such a decision is, according to studies, a very small total environmental benefit, but it is expensive purely economically. It is a small environmental benefit in that many of them have a well-functioning va, and an alternative va-solution would work perfectly well at a significantly lower cost. The calculation to get a municipal va-connection out to this area is 500 000 SEK per plot. Of the 40 people who live there, many older people cannot afford to pay these $500,000. The consequence in the long run, of course, may be that they are allowed to move elsewhere. I don't think that's right. If they have va-plants that work perfectly well and measured values that show that they can handle it as well as a municipal va, I cannot understand why we force them there. That's what we do if we don't get the bill. I understand that the Minister and I have the same objective in this regard. I hope that there will be a proposal to Parliament as soon as possible so that we can change these rules which I believe are rigid and do not really help the citizens.
i-3xTNftVEqmYsa7witJKeRq	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Larry Söder, for the interpellation! It is important that we do not have excessive charges that make it impossible for people to live in rural areas. That is precisely why we have given the huge task to the investigation to look at this and how to facilitate so that alternatives to general va can also be taken into account by the municipalities. I have already put forward the arguments that there is a need for proper monitoring of water and sewage. It's about human health. We don't want coli bacteria in the drinking water. It is also about the environment. I think most people are very aware of the problems we have with eutrophication of both lakes and seas, and not least the Baltic Sea. Small individual sewers are a real factor in the eutrophication of the Baltic Sea, especially in the summer months. That is why we need to take this issue very seriously. The investigation has been out for a referral. We have received referrals. The government is currently dealing with the issue and may simply return to Parliament on the matter.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-170	Mrs. alman! When it comes to proper control of va-plants, I say check. We have the same idea about it. But it can't be reasonable if you can prove with measurements that your va-plant can handle it as well as a municipal one that we force people to pay 500 000 kroner. I can't understand that. We have to speed it up somehow. I have not really received an answer from the Minister if the Minister intends to speed up the handling of the bill so that we can get it to Parliament's table as soon as possible. Now we can't decide on it this spring. But perhaps this could happen in the autumn if we manage to get it out as soon as possible. It would be very good for many of the people who are a little worried. This also applies to those municipalities that want to build new dwellings in areas where there are older dwellings that have a functioning status. However, the municipality places an area of activity in which it considers itself obliged to make a co-universal va for all properties, and this affects a person who has his own va that works perfectly well. My wish and appeal is for the Minister to take this on board and try to speed up the processing time so that there is a proposal as soon as possible.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-174	Madam President, I would like The government is aware of this. We have seen the joint letter from the 23 municipal councillors pointing out that the case law of today's three water and sewage legislation makes the construction of more housing difficult. Now we have both the investigation and the referral. It is important that we can treat them with the utmost seriousness and make an analysis based on the input that has been made to the government. Then we will have to come back to question n as soon as possible.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-176	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked whether I believe that increased flying is compatible with the Swedish climate targets and, if not, how I intend to act. In January 2017, the Government presented A Swedish Aviation Strategy – for the role of aviation in the transport system of the future. The Aviation Strategy states, among other things, that a Arlanda Council, in dialogue and collaboration, will develop proposals for a Arlanda-Roadmap. The purpose of the Roadmap is to develop the airport from a holistic perspective covering the airport, airspace, connecting transport and infrastructure on the ground, but also access to other airports in the Stockholm region. Furthermore, the aviation strategy states that aviation's environmental and climate impact will be reduced and that aviation, like other modes of transport, will contribute to the goal of Sweden as one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. The significant climate impact of aviation is to be reduced and all sectors must contribute if climate targets are to be met. The government has already taken several initiatives to reduce aviation emissions. Therefore, the airline tax should be maintained. The Government has also proposed that SEK 60 million be allocated during 2018 – 2020 for an investment in research and development of biofuels for aviation. In 2018, the Government appointed the investigation into instruments to promote the use of biofuels for aviation. The government received its report Biojet for aviation in March this year. The study proposes, among other things, the introduction of a reduction obligation for flights, and its proposals will now be examined to see what measures can further reduce the climate impact of aviation. It is already clear from the January agreement that a requirement for mandatory inclusion of renewable fuel should be introduced and that a high level of interference should be given financial incentives. Biofuels, however, do not solve the climate challenge of aviation on their own. They are only one of several necessary tools, in addition to other techniques and changing flight habits, to reduce the climate impact of aviation enough to reach the Swedish climate targets. The January agreement also provides for the implementation of a mandatory climate declaration for the purchase of air travel and for a proposal on environmental management of landing and take-off charges. Sweden will take the lead shirt to renegotiate the international agreements and conventions that today put an end to a tax on aviation fuel that can replace today's tax on air travel.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-181	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Environment and Climate Action for the answer to my interpellation. We know that aviation is probably the fastest growing source of emissions in Sweden and in many countries around the world. In international flights, for example, travel has increased by over 100 per cent since 1990. If aviation emissions continue to increase to the same extent as they have historically in Sweden, only emissions from the aviation industry in Sweden can be larger than Sweden's other emissions around 2040. We really need to tackle the rapidly growing emissions from the aviation industry. Therefore, I and many others are concerned about the announced expansion of Arlanda Airport, Sweden's largest airport. There are many who have doubts as to whether this means only some minor adjustments and improvements and whether it is investments in reducing emissions. Or is it actually in the aviation strategy that the Minister himself mentioned here and which is the government's aviation strategy? There you expect a double flight to and from Arlanda, from today's about 25 million passengers to over 50 million passengers. I think everyone understands that doubling flying to and from Arlanda would be completely untenable. I read the News of the Day on 26 Mar's. There, Madam President, Minister for the Environment and Climate Change Isabella Lövin says that it is unthinkable that we should contribute to an increased capacity of air traffic in Sweden. I think that was putting your foot down. The Minister for the Environment and Climate Action therefore does not believe that we can expand the capacity of our airports, at least at Arlanda Airport. But in the aviation strategy that we have since 2017 – which is the government's aviation strategy and which I assume the Minister for Environment and Climate Change is behind – it is clear that Arlanda Airport will be strengthened. Reference is made to the forecast of double flying to and from Arlanda around 2050.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-187	For this purpose, i.e. Arlanda's purpose, the Government has also appointed a so-called Arlanda Council, which will develop a roadmap for how Arlanda can be expanded. Since I think Isabella Lövin is now on the board of the Arlanda Council, I would like to ask her: Is there such a road map? Is this flight plan about doubling flying to and from Arlanda? And when will such a roadmap be presented? Finally, I have another question for the Environment and Climate Minister, because I do not think she really answered it: Is an increased flying from Sweden compatible with our environmental and climate goals?
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-189	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for these important questions! The climate impact of aviation is, as Jens Holm points out, something that has increased for a very long time and very much. Over the past nine years in a row, we have seen a dramatic increase in flying from Swedish airports. Flying has basically more than doubled since 1990. It is therefore very gratifying that we are now seeing a change in this increase. In 2018, for the first time in nine years, we see a trend break when the increase has stopped. The Swedish Transport Agency's statistics show that the first quarter of 2019 reduced the number of passengers by 4 1⁄2 per cent. Both the number of passengers and take-offs and landings have decreased.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-192	We simply see that the government's policy is moving towards the climate targets and the desired goals that we have set ourselves. The forecasts to which Jens Holm refers are old now, and I think there is every reason for Swedavia and our authorities to make new forecasts forward based on climate targets. That is the policy that the government is pursuing. The Government's aviation strategy mentions that Arlanda should be the leader. Having said that, Arlanda will be the leader in sustainable change. The government has set up the study on biofuels in aviation and has also received its report. The study is based on various forecasts of the increase in aviation. However, even with an increase based on the estimates of the study, a 30% incorporation of renewable fuels in aviation in 2030 would lead to 24% reduction in emissions. But then the high-height effect is not included; I would like to stress this absolutely. So we will need a lot of work. We need to develop new ways for airlines to reduce emissions, such as straighter routes – simply look at how they fly. The emissions in aviation are definitely going down. And Arlanda can become the leader in this transition by ensuring that we have sustainable fuels. Every drop that is refuelled in Sweden should be renewable in this strategy. I'm not on the Arlanda Council. Here we are currently working to see how to work forward with the Arlanda strategy. However, the Government has not made any decisions regarding the financing of an expansion of Arlanda Airport.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-196	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would really like to welcome the trend break with reduced flying referred to by the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action here. We in the Left Party also think that this is very positive. Perhaps the tax on aviation that we agree on is one of the main reasons for this, along with the increased commitment to the environment and climate. That is a good thing, but we know that it is not enough by a long way. I heard the Environment and Climate Minister himself in a previous debate talking about the need to reduce our emissions by perhaps 8 percentage points each year in order to be in line with our objectives. The school strikers here on Fridays usually talk about about about 12 percentage points each year. There are very large emission reductions we need to make. It is also just as the Minister for Environment and Climate Change says: Biofuel alone is not enough. We also want a large part of the forest to remain, so we cannot mortgage all of it to produce biofuels for aviation. We just need to reduce flying, that's all. It was very interesting, Madam President, to hear that the Minister believes that Swedavia's forecasts are wrong when Swedavia mortgages an increase in flying. Swedavia is a government agency, so here the government can commission Swedavia to produce new forecasts to base its planning on. Will the Minister give Swedavia such an assignment? That would be interesting to know. It was also interesting to hear that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Change is not in the Arlanda Council. Surely the Green Party is represented in the Council? Is it the former Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog who is still sitting there? It would be very good to hear about it, so that we know which politicians are sitting in the Arlanda Council. We know that it is led by the Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, who is a social democrat. This thing with the Arlanda Council, Madam President, is very important. After all, it is the Arlanda Council that is to present the entire roadmap for what everyone is talking about, namely Arlanda's expansion. Everyone is talking about flying to and from Arlanda being doubled in the coming decades. That's why it would be amazing if that wasn't what you planned for. Please correct me if I am wrong, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, but that is what everyone is talking about. If it is not so that Arlanda will expand I wonder what it is Swedavia invests in. I think it is close to SEK 46 billion that they have planned to invest in an expansion of Arlanda. It also includes the construction of thousands of new car parking spaces, if I have understood correctly. Does the Minister for the Environment and Climate think it's the right money spent? I still do not think that there is a clear holistic approach from the government on how we can seriously reduce emissions from the aviation industry in Sweden. If the government is afraid to put its foot down on the issue of flying more or less from Arlanda in the future, I am afraid that what the Environment and Climate Minister is saying here are just fine words that will not actually apply in the future. Could the Minister be clearer in this area: Should Arlanda be allowed to expand or not?
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-205	Madam President, I would like I believe that the development of the last six months or the year with reduced air traffic shows that policy makes a difference. An increased awareness among people also contributes to that difference, of course, but it is important to show leadership. The government stood up to introduce a flight tax even though the opposition threatened with censure against individual ministers when we were going to go forward with it. Now we have a flight tax in place. We also have a wide range of new instruments in the January agreement that we agree on: mandatory air travel climate declaration, investigating flight take-off and landing charges, being more aggressive in terms of the international part in order to have a tax also on aviation fuel and more. The introduction of biojets to aviation is also a reduction obligation. All of this moves in a certain direction. At the same time, we now have historic investment in the railways and agree to build high-speed trains. Of course, all these things together will affect the forecasts for air travel in Sweden. That's what I'm assuming. I also see that our authorities have already paid attention to this and are revising their forecasts accordingly. In addition, we have a climate target. We will have net zero emissions in Sweden in 2045. Even with a 100% reduction obligation, the high-height effects, as they stand today, remain. But we also see that there is a technological development involving investments in research into more electric power for our aircraft. I see that aviation will also be needed in a future. However, we must make tough enough demands on the aviation industry, which up to now has basically been completely exempt from any taxation and any environmental requirements. By making tough demands on the aviation industry, we can also bring them along on the journey towards fossil freedom. It is a little early to say that it will not be possible. I think it's going to work. I also think it is important that we in the government point out that we want Arlanda and other airports to be sustainable. It's about both the business on the ground and the one in the air. The formulation to make Arlanda a leading airport for sustainability I see no problem in. Then there is another Stockholm airport, Bromma. Here we also need to see what the equation looks like. Will Bromma still be around? I hope not. We have long time lines and long perspectives here that we need to relate to. With regard to the reduction obligation, Jens Holm expresses concern about the forest raw material. I can agree with that. But I can also look at the curve of increased involvement in petrol and diesel in road traffic that more renewable and sustainable biofuels will be required. At the same time, electrification of road traffic will make electric cars and other things the dominant on our roads, and then the production of renewable fuels will be able to go more to aviation and maritime transport. I therefore believe, if the increase in air traffic does not continue, but remains at about the same level, that it could be sustainable.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-213	Madam President, I would like I would like to start with a question that I have not yet asked. This applies to the environmental management of landing and take-off charges mentioned by the Minister. When will a concrete proposal on environmental management of take-off and landing charges be put forward – not just being investigated? I think it sounds interesting. When it comes to the question of forecasts and how much we can fly in the future, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action believes that today's forecasts prepared by Swedavia that flying at Arlanda will double are old-fashioned. I really hope that's the case. But, Madam President, on p. 18 in the government's own aviation strategy, the government itself is talking about those very forecasts. You are saying that the number of passengers at Arlanda Airport in 2045 will almost double compared to today. The Government itself therefore refers to the doubling capacity at Arlanda. Then I would like to ask: Is it only Swedavia who should be given a mission to produce new forecasts of changed flying? Doesn't the government itself have to change its own flight strategy? It is these forecasts that will guide what investments are made in Arlanda in the future. It is not sustainable to invest SEK 40 billion in double flying. Finally, Madam President, I have yet to receive an answer to the question of the so-called 'road map' of the Arlanda Council. When will that roadmap be presented? I hope it will be a road map that does not talk about increased flying to and from Arlanda. It is the survival of the planet that is at stake here, and then we must reduce flying, not increase it.
i-C8zmDXoppZs8vz5uoHMiEW	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Jens Holm! The aviation strategy is very clear that aviation's environmental and climate impact will be reduced and aviation, like other modes of transport, will contribute to the goal of Sweden as one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. That is very clear in the aviation strategy. This means that we simply need to reduce flying unless the aviation industry develops ways of flying that do not contribute to climate change. That's where the flight has a big homework to do. We have woken up very late on this issue, and I would say that part of the blame for it lies with politics because we have not pointed out aircraft before and because politicians have been afraid and have not said that even aircraft should bear their own environmental costs and have gone to very, very great exaggerations to try to counteract the introduction of a flight tax. Now we have a flight tax in place. That's good. We agree in the January agreement to come up with proposals on environmental management of landing and take-off charges. All of this is now being prepared at the Government Office to see what directives we are going to put forward to produce such a proposal. We need to take a closer look at that. As far as the Roadmap is concerned, there is something that needs to be further addressed in the light of the new developments in flight forecasts and air traffic. Here is my job as climate minister to ensure that we meet the climate targets.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-221	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that impact assessments are carried out before water ponds are demolished. I would like to begin by stating that the issue of the level of requirements resulting from the EU Water Framework Directive should not be confused with the county boards' supervisory responsibility for water activities. Dams are a water business and require permission. This is something that applies in Sweden for a long time and is nothing that has been introduced as a result of our membership of the European Union. The environmental code imposes an obligation on certain designated regulatory authorities to supervise the activities covered by the environmental code's supervisory responsibilities. As a general rule, the County Administrative Board is responsible for the supervision of water activities and thus must ensure that such activities within the county are conducted in a manner that is consistent with the environmental code. In this context, it should be highlighted that the provisions on the legal force of older rights were amended on 1 January 2019. where the water activities carried out in a pond are carried out in accordance with an ancient, privilege or other right to dispose of the water referred to in Chapter 2; Section 41 of the Water Act shall be deemed to have come about under the corresponding provisions of the Environmental Code. This change in the rules has previously highlighted uncertainties about the legal status of these rights, which is also affecting the decisions that the county administrative board as supervisory authority has to make. Madam President, I would like In addition to this, I would like to make it clear that the removal of ponds requires permission under the environmental code. The review authority for these matters is the Land and Environment Court. The removal decisions of the Land and the Environment Court are preceded by a thorough investigation of the effects of an destruction. A permit for removal may be subject to conditions with a view to minimising any negative effects of a withdrawal. The assessment that the Land and Environment Court has to make before its decision in these cases includes, among other things, the impact of extraction on landscape, cultural environment, animal and plant life and infrastructure, and the impact on local residents whose property may be adversely affected by a change in the depth and location of the water. Dismantling may also require permission under the Cultural Environment Act. Furthermore, I would like to make it clear that if an authorisation for an existing water business is withdrawn, it does not necessarily mean that an evacuation must take place. According to the Environmental Code, there is an opportunity for others to take over responsibility for the plant. For example, taking over maintenance responsibility may be updated in cases where an installation has such high environmental values that the State or a municipality considers that there is a reason to take over responsibility in order to ensure that the plant is maintained or where an destruction would mean that a road route is affected in such a way that the plant should remain.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-226	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his reply. Sweden is an old industrial country and also one in many places lowland. This has meant that the need for water ponds has existed for hundreds of years. Being able to regulate the flow of water over the season and over the year has been vital. In many places there is a risk of drought unless ponds are found to take advantage of the spring river and regulate the water during the summer. Furthermore, if our streams dry out during the summer, mussels and fish that live here will die. In addition, the current infrastructure and water supply are adapted to the existence of the centuries-old dams. In addition, many smaller power plants provide an opportunity to have a certain spare capacity of electricity, which is probably so important today. Madam President, I would like It can be a dam that makes a difference between a forest burning down or a forest fire being extinguished with water bombing. This summer Örebro County suffered some forest fires, and then the possibility of taking water by helicopter was crucial to actually stop the fire. Our water ponds simply contribute to a strengthened civil defence. Many of our ponds are so old that the permit processes did not exist when they were built, which has been a problem. In the past, it has not been taken into account that the entire landscape, nature and water management have been adapted to the existence of the dams. Therefore, the new legislation of 1 January 2019, which the Minister mentions in his response and which takes into account the legal power of older rights, is welcome. Madam President, I would like What is important in this context is that the decisions on demolitions which are now on the table and which are subject to appeal are not enforced until the appeal has been examined, but also that the new legislation is taken into account. In fact, there have been cases where dams have been demolished before the appeal has been brought before the courts, which has put the entire rule of law out of hand. This, of course, must not happen. It is a violation of the law that is, in itself, unlawful. However, individual pond owners rarely have an economic opportunity to appeal, which means that the state will then gain too much power in relation to the individual. With legal certainty and with the new, refined legislation, I can nevertheless hope that we will not have to see dust rubs without proper impact assessments and with devastating effects.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-233	Madam President, I would like It is thus the county administrative boards that have operational oversight responsibilities over water activities. The county administrative boards are supervised in accordance with long-established regulations, and I assume that I and the interpellant agree that water operations should as a general rule continue to be subject to authorisation. Operation of dams requires permission. If an activity is operated without authorisation, the supervisory authority may require the operator to apply for authorisation. In the same way that it is important that a dam is authorised when required, it is of course also important that the removal of the dam is not allowed without analysing the effects of such a removal. In the case of a permit for removal, care must be taken to ensure that requirements are made for consideration of the environmental impact and for precautions to be taken. What is now at stake, then, is that the construction and operation of dams require a permit. This is shown in Chapter 11. the environmental code. It is also the case that decomposition of dams requires permission. Only ponds where it is clear that neither public nor individual interests are harmed by the impact of water activities on water conditions are exempted from authorisation. Authorisation for removal is granted by the Land and Environment Court. An authorisation for removal shall provide for the conditions necessary to regulate the adverse effects resulting from an destruction. It is therefore, of course, the case that a decision to tear down a dam should be taken by the Land and Environment Court. There shall also be an impact assessment.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-237	Madam President, I would like Water supply has always been an important issue. In the past, we had to make sure that we had water in our wells, and today most people expect them to have access to municipal water. For a long time, we have rarely had to worry that water is there when we need it. Many do not even understand that water, like most things in the world, is a finite resource – a resource that we need to be careful about. However, the drought of recent years has brought awakening to many. You cannot trust that water always exists, and we must protect our water resources. In fact, taking care of water is a virtue. Madam President, I would like Our large cities depend on the water supply from our large lakes and from the flow to them. There is neither melting water from any glacier, such as in the Alps, nor spring water, which many of our smaller towns have available. Instead, it is a necessity that runoff water comes and that it is clean. There is always a risk of using ordinary river water that has been purified as drinking water. The water is never cleaner than the area it came from. If old bottom sediments that have been untouched for many decades are washed with, it can mean a contaminated drinking water for a big city, with all that it means. In fact, this can happen if you completely empty ponds that today are not decontaminated but untouched. Orchard is actually the best. For Örebro you are dependent on water from Svartån's water catchment area. If this water is not available during a hot summer because it has completely run out during the spring flood, there will be consequences. A city like Örebro and the surrounding area, which includes about 150 000 inhabitants, cannot be without a safe water supply. Last year an irrigation ban was imposed in Örebro because of too low water levels, Madam President, despite the fact that there were actually dams in the water system. What would it be like if we had not saved water earlier in the spring? Örebro Municipality discusses how to secure its water supply in the future, and so do most other cities. Let us be proactive and protect the water resources we have on time! To tear down dams is not just about flows in our watercourses but about much more. This is about a civil defence with a water storage facility if there is a need to put out fires. It's about backup power when we need it. It is about avoiding drought in our watercourses when we get dry summers. It is about preventing floods in the event of large amounts of precipitation. It is about securing water supply not only to individual wells but also to the municipal waters of large cities. Therefore, it is so important that the state's extended arm county boards carry out proper impact assessments and allow a review to be completed before any decided demolitions are carried out.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-242	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with the interpellier's description of how vital water is. The drought that hit large parts of Sweden last year I think was a scare shot for a lot of people. We realized we're very vulnerable. We have probably assumed that there is always plenty of water in Sweden, but when even Örebro County issues irrigation bans – not only Gotland and other areas where you may be more used to drought – it is a real alarm clock that we need to take seriously. Here we need to see how we can make ourselves as resistant to extreme weather events as possible. It can be a matter of rain, and just like last summer, it can be an extremely long time without precipitation and with extremely high temperatures, which led to forest fires. What research and experience shows is a very important effort to ensure that we have sufficient infiltration of rainwater down to groundwater and that there is resistance is the construction of wetlands. It is a huge intervention in our nature that people have been doing for a very long time: they have been ditching out to create arable land, straightening out watercourses and ditching out with large crown ditches that cause rainwater to rush into lakes and seas with great power instead of remaining in the ground and infiltrating down to the groundwater. Through hydropower and the dams that have been built, we have also prevented biodiversity, such as fish and other things, from walking up and down the watercourses. The fish itself may not be an important factor in water supply, but it is so important for a resilient nature. So we have reason to look at the best efforts to make ecosystems as resilient as possible and to ensure that they have a function in a changing climate that makes us as resilient as possible. I note that M and KD in their budget, which went through with the support of SD, removed the 200 million that the government had allocated to the restoration and construction of wetlands. It is a hugely important effort that needs to be made to strengthen ecosystems today. Many of the dams that exist, even in Örebro County, have no active activity. Many are also in very bad condition. It is quite natural that these need to be reviewed, and I am pleased that the Riksdag adopted the bill on the aquatic environment and hydropower presented by the Government last April. This means that we will finally be able to have modern environmental requirements for water activities and that we will develop a national plan for how this is to be done as effectively as possible. Here we need to take account of both electricity supply and a changing climate. The loss of biodiversity is also a hugely important issue. We need to ensure that we can restore areas that are vital to many of our endangered species.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-248	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer. As the Minister puts it, there are a huge number of factors that need to be taken into account. I am very frightened when you quickly process decisions without dealing with all the different perspectives that are at stake. The environments that exist today are not created overnight, but they have existed for many hundreds of years. I don't think you always think about what would happen if you tear and change back into something. Is there something that has been around before that comes back? What's it look like? As I said, I am frightened by the fact that sometimes you are so willing to tear down and do something that you think is good in the short term. It is forgotten that it can have an impact in many other ways. Outside Laxå, for example, we had an event where the railway rails down to Gothenburg were disappearing as the spring water took the entire surface to the rails. So there is no knowledge of all the different factors. I therefore believe that greater humility should be shown. Of course, we cannot have wetlands throughout Västernärke that would suddenly solve all these problems. I hope we can do something good about this. It sounds like it's also the Minister's intention. Those who worry about these ponds do have animals, nature and waterproofing in their way of thinking. They try to think about many factors and not just in the short term of some single paragraph.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-252	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Lotta Olsson! I take this issue seriously, and I assume that the authorisation to be granted through the Land and Environment Court will take place according to what we agree on and which is also stipulated in the environmental code. I also assume that an analysis will be made of the possible negative impact of an exodus. I would not say that this has gone too quickly or that the government or the EU is pursuing a premature policy. It took many decades for us to finally reach an agreement, not least in Parliament, to update the environmental code so that we can get modern water services and look at what we are obliged to do under the EU's water directives. However, this is not just about it, it is a permit business in Sweden that has existed for a long time. Having said that, many of these parts have been remembered. It could be old mills and ponds. I am very pleased that we have managed to agree on how to proceed with this and that they should be considered to have a permit. But when it's called for, they need to get a new permit. Here, of course, we need to ensure that a proper analysis is made of the consequences of erosion.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-256	Madam President, I would like Henrik Edin has asked me a question about transport aid in the southern archipelago of Gothenburg. The background to the question is the Swedish Transport Administration's decision in an individual case regarding operating grants, which also led to an interpellation by David Josefsson, which I answered on 12 March this year. I mentioned on that occasion that there are different types of ferries and boating that can have different headships and fall under different regulations. Each island is unique with varying local conditions and history. On the basis of local conditions, each principal takes a position on the level of service offered. In the decision referred to by Henrik Edin, the municipality of Gothenburg, as the principal, was granted State aid by the Finnish Transport Administration in the form of operating grants to the ferry route in question. At the same time, the Finnish Transport Agency announced in its decision that the contribution should be phased out in the future. Both for me and for the government, it is important that the whole country should be able to live and grow. This obviously also applies to the archipelago. Operating grants for individual roads, and in some cases ferries, can be an important part of this. The regulation on urban aid to individual road maintenance lays down the rules on when such aid may be granted. If and if so, how much contribution can be made will be determined by the Finnish Transport Administration in each individual case.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-260	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Tomas Eneroth. According to the decision of Trafikverket last year, the operating grant for the ferry route that goes to the freight traffic in the southern archipelago of Gothenburg will be phased out. This is problematic because the grant covers a very large part of the cost of transporting goods and goods to the archipelago. The Gothenburg archipelago has no fixed land connections. Therefore, freight transport is crucial for the archipelago to live. There are good conditions for the archipelago to live. Some 5,000 people today live on the islands all year round, and the population is estimated to double during the summer. Today there are large expansionary plans in the archipelago. On many of the islands new residential areas are being built. At the same time, the tourism industry is increasing, and the number of people who get out to the archipelago to see the beautiful cultural and natural landscape is increasing every year. As the Government rightly points out, each island is unique, and therefore each archipelago is unique. But even when the archipelagos are very similar, the Finnish Transport Administration's decision from last year clearly shows that the conditions can differ considerably. Just a few kilometres north of Gothenburg's southern archipelago is the northern archipelago. In Öckerö municipality, the archipelago community is connected to the mainland via a ferry route operated by Trafikverket. Unlike the ferry route in the southern archipelago, it is not economically threatened. The lack of equivalence and predictability is problematic, I mean. Although the Government cannot comment on or influence individual matters, a fundamental discussion and policy is needed to deal with the consequences of similar government decisions. We all know what can happen to smaller communities when the local grocery store is forced to close because of deteriorating conditions. Rural death is a very serious problem, and it would be a tragedy if the government were to look between its fingers in the event that the Gothenburg archipelago is affected by it. The question I put to Tomas Eneroth is very urgent. But I'm afraid I haven't got a really clear answer to it. Therefore, I repeat my question: What will the Government and the Government do to ensure that the Finnish Transport Administration's decision does not have a negative impact on the society in the Gothenburg archipelago?
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-266	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Henrik Edin! I really appreciate the commitment, and I think we share the view that each island is unique and that the archipelago really needs to develop and grow. This is also the starting point for the government's work. With regard to the decision that Henrik Edin refers to, I can inform you that the 2018 decision referred to in the interpellation was worded as referring to the Finnish Transport Administration's view of the continued allocation of funds. With the decision taken in March this year, Trafikverket has decided to grant grants for 2019. There is no such indication of what will happen to operating aid in the future. As a minister, I cannot comment or change individual authority decisions, but I note in any case that there is a difference in how the Swedish Transport Administration chooses to formulate itself. In this sense, I believe that this may also have some significance for the further development of the issue. The second part is, of course, about the development of the archipelago in general. The fact that there is a strong state commitment in one part of the Gothenburg archipelago is linked to the fact that it is part of the state road network. In other parts, it is linked to what is the responsibility of the City of Gothenburg or the Municipality of Gothenburg. Of course it is a shared responsibility, but it is also a local and regional responsibility. As I have pointed out in previous interpellation debates, I think it is important for a local and regional discussion to be held on what standards and level of service you want on ferry services, and not least on freight ferry services, which are important, as I would like to emphasise. Freight traffic in the archipelago is important to maintain business and service, but also to create some hope and confidence in the future that you can continue to develop and perhaps create new business opportunities. I believe that with the new decision that has been taken, there are conditions for continuing to develop ferry services in the region that Henrik Edin is talking about.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-272	Madam President, I would like This is very true. The reformulation made by the Finnish Transport Administration is very pleasing, because the ferry route is financed to a very large extent, to almost 70%, by this particular operating aid. I asked the parliamentary investigation service whether it was even possible to investigate how much, for example, a litre of milk would cost after such operating aid would be removed. Unfortunately, we do not currently have financial calculation tools available to make such a calculation. People act in so many different ways, and goods have different price elasticitys. There are simply dynamic effects in the economy that are completely impossible to calculate. However, if 70% of the financing of freight traffic were to disappear, it is not difficult to assume that the price of goods in the archipelago would go up and not down. As I said, we cannot know exactly what the future will be, but what would happen if, for example, the price of one litre of milk increased by 70 percent? More and more islanders would start shopping in town and would be forced to put food bags and other things on the tram and boat on their way home. This would of course result in even worse conditions to live and operate companies out in the archipelago. Here the dynamic effects kick in. Prices would increase further, and perhaps shops would be forced to close. Then you also have to ask yourself: What happens to those who cannot get into town to shop? Of course, a policy, or at least a plan, is needed to deal with or avoid such a situation. That's a little what I'm looking for in my interpellation. The Government also highlights the responsibility of the municipality. The city of Gothenburg has had decades of mismanagement, which has created a difficult economic situation and is now doing its best to sort it out. However, it is quite clear that there is no further scope for efforts to cover any withdrawal of operating aid. Mr President, I would like to It is not difficult to imagine that the Finnish Transport Administration's decision could induce a local recession in the archipelago. I myself refuse to believe that it is the will of the Government or the Government that politics should result in this. I am well aware of the meritorious efforts that Tomas Eneroth has made to deal with important issues in the Gothenburg area. But when I sit on the boat to the archipelago this weekend and meet worried islanders who ask me how to handle freight traffic in Gothenburg's southern archipelago, what should I answer them then, Tomas Eneroth?
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-278	Mr President, I would like to I thank Henrik Edin. To answer the question, I think Henrik Edin can say: How good that we have a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament about the importance of protecting the archipelago! The Government spends SEK 700 billion on strengthening the infrastructure. This is something that Henrik Edin will certainly be up to. The last is a small point, because it is important that we have broad parliamentary support for the massive investments we are going to make in infrastructure in the future: in new ferry routes, in fairway depths, but also, of course, in new infrastructure. It is also important that we safeguard the state's efforts to obtain operating aid for individual roads or individual ferry routes. I'll say that for a reason. The state budget, like the budget for the city of Gothenburg or the municipality, is something that must stick together in pluses and minuses. If we are too ambitious, whether we are talking about tax cuts, defence expenditure or anything else, there is the risk that there is no room for maintaining good service levels and quality throughout the country. For me, this is important. That is one of the reasons why, in our budget, which both the Liberals and the Government support, we could announce extra efforts on individual roads to improve quality where the market will not be able to compensate for the shortcomings. The same applies to the archipelago. The fact that the Finnish Transport Administration's decision now eliminates a great deal of the concern is, in my view, an important signal, without my being able to go into an individual matter of authority. I'm from Kosta myself. It is a town of about 800 inhabitants. There were no high-speed trains or airports. Well, there's a military airport, but it's not very convenient for me to leave. Maybe the buses left sometime. I know very well what it means not to have the best means of communication. Then it is important that society is there, with public transport or other solutions, so that you can stay in a small community and feel that it matters and that new jobs can be developed. I look at this in exactly the same way whether we are in Gothenburg's beautiful archipelago or in Västerbotten's inland. For me and for the government, it is important to continue to have a high share of operating aid, but also a dialogue with regions on what is the responsibility of the regions in this. As Henrik Edin well knows, there is, of course, a constant discussion about what is the state responsibility for state roads and leads and what is then the responsibility of municipalities and regions. In that dialogue, we will certainly continue to look at the possibilities for a good and balanced distribution of costs. But for the government, it's important to keep this country together. If we do not, we will eventually create even greater regional divides, and I refuse to do so. The whole country should stick together. The archipelago is an important part of Sweden, as much as Västerbotten's inland or the forests of Småland, and it will also be crucial for my continued view of how the archipelago will develop.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-285	Mr President, I would like to I thank Tomas Eneroth for his answer and for his passionate commitment to these questions. I have had a real scare-hit of this issue, as the Government understands. I think it is extremely important that freight transport to the southern archipelago works as it should. I think it is important, not least, that there is a long-term perspective and predictability in the decisions taken by the Swedish Transport Administration. There must be some form of fundamental equivalence in how our smaller communities around the country can function. Perhaps the question is perceived as small, but for the people who live or work out in the archipelago, it is of course crucial to whether you can continue as you do today on the islands. Furthermore, I note that this is the second time this issue has been debated in this House. It may say something about how anxious it is. I hope that the Government and the Government will take the matter further in their continued work to get the whole of Sweden to live and also to grow. As I said, I am also convinced that there is a broad political consensus in Parliament to create more equal conditions throughout the country.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-288	Mr President, I would like to I thank Henrik Edin. As I said, I appreciate that there is broad agreement. There must also be provision for real resources for this type of operating aid. Nevertheless, I would like to repeat what I said at the outset. In March this year, the Finnish Transport Agency made a new decision concerning grants for 2019. It is not as obedient to the decision that existed in 2018, and it means that it is now providing operating aid to the individual ferry route. Otherwise, as a minister, I cannot comment on the decision taken by the authority, but in general, no one should doubt my commitment or the commitment of the government and the will to ensure that we stick together in this country. This applies to the archipelago, Västerbotten's inland, Småland forests and for that matter our cities. In order to feel that it is worth taking part in paying taxes and contributing, it is absolutely crucial to see that cohesion policy is important for the country. I appreciate Henrik Edin's commitment and willingness to have an interpellation debate in Parliament on this. Good luck in the future, and maybe we'll see you in the Gothenburg region sometime!
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-292	Mr President, I would like to Helena Lindahl has asked me a number of questions about Arlanda's future and regional airports. In January 2017, the Government presented A Swedish Aviation Strategy – for the role of aviation in the transport system of the future. The Aviation Strategy states, among other things, that a Arlanda Council, in dialogue and collaboration, will develop proposals for a flight plan for Arlanda. The purpose of the Roadmap is to develop the airport from a holistic perspective including the airport, airspace, connecting transport and infrastructure on the ground, but also access to other airports in the Stockholm region. Furthermore, the aviation strategy states that aviation's environmental and climate impact will be reduced and that aviation, like other modes of transport, will contribute to the goal of Sweden as one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. Arlandarådet has worked on a road map for Arlanda. The government's handling of the issue is not yet clear. The Government Office is currently also working on an airport review which concerns, inter alia, the development of regional airports. This is another initiative announced by the government in the Aviation Strategy. The review is carried out to clarify the State's responsibility and role as an aid provider for non-State airports and for routes with public service obligations.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-295	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I will be honest and say that I do not feel that I have received so many straight answers to the questions I asked the Government in the interpellation. This actually reinforces a little the suspicion that I and many others have: that there is a huge difference in the government parties' view of Arlanda and the future of aviation. This disagreement risks slowing down Sweden's development rather than emissions. The flight will go regardless of whether we are expanding Arlanda or not, but it is the government that must decide whether Swedes should fly from Arlanda or via Oslo, Copenhagen and Helsinki. Mr President, I would like to To not expand Arlanda would be to hinder continued growth, not only in the Stockholm region but in large parts of the country. The ability to travel efficiently to the rest of the world is important for companies in Sweden, even for those who start their journey at a regional airport. Over the past ten years, air travel has increased sharply — from 18 to 27 million passengers annually. Although there has recently been a decrease, forecasts suggest that there will be a far greater increase in the future, even if high-speed trains would be expanded in Sweden. Furthermore, if Bromma airport were to close, the pressure on Arlanda would increase. The Minister has also pointed this out in the media. Everyone should agree that aviation should be carbon neutral in the future, which is possible through new technologies, biofuels in the tank and flights powered by electricity. Then we cannot allow an old view of aviation to guide developments, which unfortunately seems to be the view of some parties. Sustainability and growth can go hand in hand, and if we do not have that perspective, Sweden will fall behind. Mr President, I would like to I mentioned at the outset that I do not really think I have received answers to the questions I asked in the interpellation, and so I am now taking the opportunity to ask them again and hope that the Minister will take the time to answer them. Is the government even agreed that Arlanda will be the leading major airport in the Nordic region? Do you agree on the final report of the Arlanda Council? And finally, can the Minister guarantee that the Arlanda Council's report will be presented this year?
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-301	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Lindahl! I appreciate the commitment. The aviation strategy was very much discussed when it was presented. This was the first time we in Sweden gathered around a strategy for aviation. That is where we pointed out in the previous government the need for change in aviation. Air travel is important for connecting the country, but it is also important that aircraft are able to adapt to the climate challenges we have. This is one of the reasons why we are now working intensively on this – the Biofuels investigation is a good example. It is about how we can achieve a reduction obligation also on the air side, electrification of aviation and other ways of achieving climate targets. There lies the work of the whole government: to act now and do what previous governments may not have chosen to do. Then it is particularly gratifying that the Social Democrats and the Green Party, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, agreed on a January agreement and now agree to work with the aviation tax being in place as a clear instrument. We are talking about compensation for regional airports where no other alternative actually exists. We are also looking at differentiated take-off and landing fees and climate declaration, so that you and I, as consumers, can find out what the climate footprint of the different modes of transport means. In this way, we are now taking joint responsibility for both the transformation of the transport system – it is important – and, of course, to ensure that we inform everyone who is going to make individual choices about their importance. There, the regional airport review will be important. I was the responsible minister when Nexchet went bankrupt. Helena Lindahl is well aware of the importance of Nexjet and regional aviation in some parts of the country. Two days after the bankruptcy, I stood with the Director-General of the Finnish Transport Administration and said that the flights would get into the air as soon as possible. The market did not meet its responsibilities here, but society had to ensure a public service by common means. We managed relatively shortly thereafter to get flights up at at least three of the airports. On the other two, Arvidsjaur and Gällivare, where there was commercial air traffic, other rules applied. There, EU rules put obstacles in Sweden's way to be able to act quickly and to ensure that they got air transport. We had to wait for a procurement model in which all European airlines would have the opportunity to tender. Of course, we followed the EU acquis. But I was clear then, and I am still clear: this is not sustainable. We cannot have a system whereby airlines' right to operate comes before the citizens' ability to get back and forth. For an entrepreneur in Gällivare it was extremely painful to not have good communications out, as well as for the tourism industry and citizens. My starting point when we are working on the regional airport strategy is therefore to ensure that we provide better and clearer conditions for when we can have a public service obligation, but also in terms of the economic conditions for regional aviation. This is important in order to keep the country together. The moment we say this, we need to be clear that aviation is going to be able to cope with climate change. That is why we are acting and ensuring that we can now introduce biofuels with the Biofuels investigation. That is also why we are spending extra research money on the ability of aviation to convert electric flights and very clearly ensure that citizens' opportunities to choose other climate-smart alternatives are facilitated, for example through the greatest rail investment in modern times. So we are making a great effort to meet the challenge. However, the Arlanda Council's report continues to be prepared in the Government Office.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-312	Mr President, I would like to I know that the Minister has been committed to the problem of Nexchet, and we are very happy about that in the north. But I still do not feel that the Minister is so interested in answering the questions I asked directly. According to an article in Dagens Nyheter, the Government has rejected the fact that there is a conflict between the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party on the issue of expanding Arlanda. According to the article, the Minister must have referred to a common view. But the interesting thing is that in the same article, Minister of the Environment Isabella Lövin says that it is unthinkable for the Green Party to expand the airport. She also adds that she will not contribute to a decision that increases air traffic in Sweden. If you read that article, you clearly realize that the government is not in agreement. It is clear that the issue is now so sensitive that the Arlanda Council's report cannot be presented. Previously, the Government and former Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson have agreed that Arlanda will be the leading major airport in the Nordic region. So is this to be done only if it is allowed by the Green Party? Unfortunately, I feel that the Social Democrats were laying flat for the Green Party on the question of ownership of the forest last parliamentary term. This has contributed to great concern for Swedish forest owners and to questionable government decisions. Is it again Sweden's growth that will pay the price for allowing the Green Party to run over the Social Democrats? Nor did the Minister respond to his view of the possibility for regional operators to take part in Swedavia's profits. This is an important issue as many of these airports are having a tough time. They're bleeding financially, and I think the Minister knows that. The representatives of the regional airports consider that they provide Swedavia airports Arlanda and Bromma with domestic passengers and thus contribute to Swedavia's revenues.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-319	Then I would like to repeat the questions I have just asked. The minister tanged them a little in his last sentence, but I did not feel that I got a direct answer. Is the government even agreed that Arlanda will be the leading major airport in the Nordic region? Is there agreement on the Arlanda Council's final report, and can the Minister guarantee that the Arlanda Council's report will be presented this year?
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-320	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Lindahl! I'm a little concerned about what I could interpret as a less strong commitment to the flight being changed. Now that we have tools in place – air taxes, climate declarations and other things that we have signed up to in the January agreement – this must be the starting point for how the aircraft will be able to cope with the conversion. If you don't do this, the flight will have a pretty tough journey ahead. The latest forecast shows a reduction in air traffic. What it depends on is a little early to say, of course, but I can imagine that the recent climate discussion can play a role. I want us to be clear about the political options available, to ensure that we make major infrastructure investments, so that you can choose to travel by train instead of flying between Stockholm and Gothenburg and to make sure that on long journeys we are clear with what climate effect the journey actually has, so that when we choose a flight alternative you and I can feel and know what climate footprint our trip does. I dare to believe that the greatly increased interest in night trains in Europe and in rail travel in general is important now that we see people's travel patterns. Then there is the question of whether the regional airports will benefit from Swedavia's profits. Helena Lindahl knows as well as most in the Riksdag that there are no direct movements from a government company's earnings into other government activities. If we want to strengthen support for regional airports, it is through budgetary work. This is done through the resources that we currently spend on regional airports – it is probably about SEK 250 million in total that we provide in operating aid and in public service obligations. If the Centre Party is prepared to continue to support this, then we have budgetary cooperation where we can discuss this together. Again: Part of the aviation strategy is to continue to develop Arlanda. Not least, this will be important if you want to close Bromma, which seems to be the case in the Stockholm region. Then the domestic flight must be able to fit in. But it is Swedavia as a company that is responsible for the investments made at Arlanda. It is the Board of Directors there and its operational management that is responsible for the investments that are being made at the moment.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-324	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I mentioned earlier that everyone probably agrees that aviation should be carbon neutral in the future, and that is also possible through new technologies, biofuels, electric flights and so on. There is quite a lot of research and entrepreneurship in this area. As I said, we cannot allow an old view of aviation to control developments. I note that the Government avoids answering my questions. I understand that this has to do with the disagreement between the government parties. For this reason, it is now trying to hide the report that the Arlanda Council has been working on for almost two years, in which several ministers, representatives of the business community and the relevant government authorities have been present. I can only regret that the Social Democrats allow the Green Party to dictate the terms and conditions and do not see the possibility of combining climate-smart technologies and reducing emissions while at the same time promoting the growth that Sweden needs for future competitiveness.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-327	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Lindahl! I will be clear and say that I have been chairman of the Arlanda Council during the time it worked. There is a strong commitment, and this work has been very valuable for Arlanda's further development. There have been representatives of the Stockholm region, industry and authorities, and it is clear that this work has incredible significance for the continued work on the roadmap. It will be important for which land connections or other connections to Arlanda you make. It will be important for the challenge to make Arlanda a fossil-free airport when it comes to its own operations, or for that matter to ensure that we can establish biofuels there, so that the flight is able to make the transition journey you need to make. The work is currently being prepared in the Government Office. We are working on the basis on which the Arlanda Council has worked. That's how the work usually works in the government, so it's not news. I'm glad Helena Lindahl is involved. That's a lot. The flight needs to be there. It needs to reset. It needs to be available. It needs to be able to meet the climate challenges. We need to take political responsibility if we're to save this planet. It is both a matter of meeting people's needs for communications and of being clear that the existing modes of transport must meet the climate requirements. This flight has a lesson to do. The flight did not meet the climate requirements earlier, and it still does not. It is still the case that the long trips that many people make as pleasure trips out of the world have a huge climate effect. It's not sustainable. We must use existing instruments here. One of the most important is to offer alternatives, to invest in the largest railway effort in modern times, to ensure that you can find other alternatives and also to work with aviation itself to manage to become sustainable. There Sweden is the world leader. We will be ahead in that transition, and I am proud of that.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-333	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg has asked me questions about the development of the rail link between Gothenburg and Oslo, about the charges on the Svinesund Bridge and whether the government is prepared to initiate the development of a method for the modelling of cross-border rail transport. The Government decided on 31 May 2018 on a national traffic cross-border plan for transport infrastructure for the period 2018 – 2029. For the government, it is important that the whole of Sweden is given good opportunities to grow and develop. The national plan therefore includes major investments in both new construction and renovation and modernisation of existing infrastructure and includes the largest rail investment in modern times. The decision states that the Government has indicated that Trafikverket will perform a deficiency analysis for the bow Gothenburg – Oslo due to its capacity problems and long journey times. This means that Trafikverket will investigate the bow with the aim that it is so well established that it can be considered in a future plan revision. The Swedish Transport Agency is already tasked with developing and managing methods and models for socio-economic analyses in the transport area. The Government's determination shows that the Swedish and Norwegian governments agree that the development of the cross-border transport infrastructure will take place in dialogue between the departments of the two countries and between the authorities responsible for the transport system in each country. The Government has an ongoing dialogue with the Norwegian Government around the cross-border strings, including Gothenburg- Oslo, as the Government sees a particular need for the countries to jointly investigate how rail connections in, among other things, the said strings can be strengthened. In this context, various funding issues are also discussed.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-337	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation! This is a very important issue for me personally, as a representative from Fyrbodal. It is also an extremely important issue for the whole of Sweden and Norway. Norway, along with Germany, is Sweden's most important trading partner. Only goods exports amount to well over 130 billion each year and make up about 10 per cent of Sweden's total goods exports. In addition, our service production or our service exports amount to EUR 90 billion. In addition, as everyone knows, there is a large and growing border trade, which amounts to about 20 billion. But the potential, Mr President, is much greater. There are good opportunities to increase trade and, not least, work spending. Work time is already extensive. It is actually the largest that we have in the Nordic region – the one between Sweden and Norway. Today it amounts to some 60 000 commuters. Norway is a good and important neighbour to us. But, as I said, the potential is much greater. We can get much closer together through a better infrastructure that provides completely different conditions and opportunities than today. But then there is a need for a double-track railway between Gothenburg and Oslo and in the long term, of course, on the entire bow from Oslo down to Hamburg, which is also being worked on further down. Today we see that traffic across Svinesund is large. It's growing. But you just go over the Svinesund Bridge. The traffic is therefore mainly located on the E6 and you travel mostly on rubber wheels. There are about 2,500 trucks crossing the bridge every day. Overall, about 1 million trucks cross the Svinesund Bridge every year. So twice as many people cross the Öresund Bridge, for example. It also passes more passenger cars over the Svinesund Bridge than over the Öresund Bridge. There are about 7 million passenger cars. I believe that these figures make it clear that the need for transport is very great. There is indeed a need to try to make investments that allow for an increased shift from road to rail. Today, 97% of journeys between Gothenburg and Oslo take place by car, on the road. Only 1% is by train. I and the Minister for Infrastructure agree that it is not sustainable – neither environmentally nor in terms of capacity. Travel times need to be shortened. This calls for investment in double-track rail. There are now emerging opportunities that the Västra Götaland region and our friends on the other side of the Norwegian border point to. It is a question of financing large parts of the expansion alongside the funding route and alongside the usual planning strategies. One possibility is to actually use the charges currently levied on the Svinesund Bridge to finance investments in rail. Today, the agreement between Sweden and Norway is that the charges should only be used to finance the road bridge and that the charges should be removed when paid. The forecast is that it will be around 2021. My question that I put in this interpellation – and this is urgent – is whether the Minister is prepared to seriously discuss with his Norwegian colleagues whether this solution would be possible. It is simply a matter of Sweden and Norway making a new handshake and, if necessary, changing the legislation so that it is possible to use Svinesundsbron's fees to co-finance this extremely important new infrastructure.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-346	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg! I share the view that it is important to get more rail investments in place. It's a climate-smart way to travel. That is also a good thing, because it means that we reduce the pressure on both existing rail systems and our roads. That is one of the reasons why we are making the greatest railway effort in modern times. That's 700 billion dollars in national planes. A very large part of it goes to rail. In fact, that is 100 billion more than the previous government was able to lay down. This means that we can now not least start the route between Gothenburg and Borås – it is a sufficiently prioritised route in the Gothenburg region. We can rearrange the Western Main Line and make sure that we get a south-east link or for that matter the Norrbotnia Line. The whole of Sweden is now being strengthened. It is now that we are investing and making the investments that should have been made 10, 15 and 20 years ago. When the Swedish people have wanted to travel more trains and when the companies have wanted to send more goods on the trains, they have previously chosen not to invest. Let's do it. It will have a climate effect, but it will, of course, also mean that we increase the opportunities for better transport. Johan Hultberg himself points out very correctly to the Västra Götaland region and the incredible importance of the connections that exist with Oslo. That is why we have been deeply involved in this. In the national plan, the government does exactly what the Västra Götaland region asks for – prepares a basis for the next revision so that there are ready plans for potential initiatives if we choose to prioritise them. Then there is cooperation or cooperation and dialogue with Norway. It's been intense. We are, of course, having discussions with Norway on the joint commitments we have with regard to the Svinesund Bridge, but also on other initiatives. The access to Kongsvingerbanan has been important here. But we also have important rail investments in other parts of the country. I was recently up and opened the bridge at Great Hell. It sounds fun, but I can tell those who don't know about it that Great Hell is a bit from Åre. You pass Storlien and head for Norway. That's where we electrified the entire midway. The ambition was to continue on the Norwegian side with an electrification of Meråkersbanan. In the long term, you could go from Trondheim to Sundsvall, electrified and efficient. Unfortunately, the Norwegian Government has not chosen to make that priority now. The government or parliament there postponed that investment. This is the case when we have a dialogue with our neighbour Norway. We must respect their decisions and their priorities. But we have an intensive dialogue on how to improve relations between our countries. Finally, it is clear that all funding conditions should be looked at. But I want to be careful to say: there are no free lunches. We can look at options with fees, green bonds, AP funds or surplus from bridge fees. However, one must be aware that the bulk will still be a state financial commitment. This means that it is not funding alongside the budget, but funding that we must jointly take responsibility for in the long-term plans that we make in the national plan. It remains to be seen what basis for decisions we get. The dialogue with the Norwegian Government continues, of course. I once again appreciate the commitment, because I think it is important that we continue to strengthen rail transport but also climate-smart ways of getting, not least, across the border with Norway.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-354	Mr President, I would like to As a moderate, of course, I am pleased to hear a Socialist Minister say that there are no free lunches. It is important that we save taxpayers' money and that we pursue a responsible economic policy. But we know that investment in infrastructure is very important in order to create greater opportunities for entrepreneurship and to broaden our labour market regions, thereby contributing to greater tax revenues and our prosperity. We also know, as the Minister said in his speech, that the infrastructure needs are very large. I am not, Mr President, the only Member who intervenes with the Minister on urgent infrastructure investments. They are all over our country – they are also in our neighbours. It is difficult to accommodate all the priority and important projects within the limited economic plans that we have, even though they have been gradually revised over quite a number of years and even though rail investments have increased with the alliance government as well as with this government, which is a good thing. I think that, given the great need, we need to look at other possible ways of getting past investments. When we do not invest in infrastructure, growth is hampered. It is potential and opportunities that are not being exploited. That is what I fear we will see in western Sweden unless this important investment is made. Copenhagen – Oslo is home to 8 of the 26 million people in the Nordic region. There are 29 universities and 260 000 university students, for example. In the bow Gothenburg – Oslo we have 4 million inhabitants and a huge potential. Then I think we need to be open to discussing whether the bridge charge that is in place can be a possible tool to get that investment in a little shorter time than would otherwise be possible. We also know from experience that, for example, the investment in the Öresund Bridge has been very, very profitable in economic terms. In twelve years, it has, I remember, delivered a value of SEK 75 billion. That's about twice what that investment cost. I therefore believe that there are good socio-economic reasons and arguments, and I am sure that the investigation carried out by Trafikverket will show this. There is therefore a need for increased and deeper cooperation between Sweden and Norway also at a political level. I hear the Minister say that there are good, constructive dialogues, but I hope that these dialogues will also lead to declarations of intent and concrete agreements on how to proceed. On this particular issue, what I said was urgent. Unless new policy decisions are taken, the possibility of using the bridge fee to co-finance will disappear. It is also the case that there is now a window of possible funding to a large extent with the help of EU funds. For this project it would be possible to get substantial support from EU funds, but it is important that Sweden and Norway show that this could be achieved. In Norway, much is already being built when it comes to getting these double tracks, so the responsibility is actually quite much on the Swedish side. Then I think one way for Tomas Eneroth to take that responsibility would have been to take the initiative to change the agreement between Sweden and Norway so that we can use the bridge fee to invest in a new, climate-smart railway infrastructure.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-364	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we are taking the initiative. We have a dialogue, but it takes two to get along. It is also the case that we from the Swedish side were clear that we are now making the biggest investments ever. Although I note that Johan Hultberg spoke about the importance of taking public financial responsibility, we should remember that it is under moderate government management that large budget deficits and high unemployment have ended. It was only now that we were laying national plans that we could spend 100 billion more, not least on rail. Since the needs are so incredibly much greater, not least after a time when a former moderate Minister of Finance talked about railway spending being unprofitable and unnecessary, we see the need to make major investments in the railways throughout the country so that we do not have signal errors and faults. We see the need for proper renovation of a worn-down railway system and new investments. That has been my starting point, and it is being done right now. Actually, this is where it's happening. It is clear then that priorities must also be set, and I have been careful to listen to the priorities that the region has made. The Västra Götaland region was very clear in its priorities: It's Gothenburg – Borås, it's Gothenburg harbour, it's the Western Tribal Line. What was requested from the Västra Götaland region was, among other things, to develop a basis for the next revision of the Gothenburg – Oslo section. That work is ongoing. There, then, we listen to what has been the region's main priorities. From the Swedish side, it is of course important that we strengthen the Swedish-Norwegian connections, whether we speak up in Narvik, about Meråkers- and Mittbanan, the string between Gothenburg and Oslo or for that matter Oslo- Örebro and the other plans for well-functioning railway connections. As far as funding is concerned, I appreciate the ingenuity of looking at various possible funding options. Ever since I took office, I myself have been very careful to say that I am prepared to turn over all the stones to look at different funding options, because the need for investment in infrastructure is so great. One thing I have learned, however, is that there are no free lunches. Even if we find fees, AP fund solutions, green bonds or even entirely private initiatives, Eurostat's rules are so clear: if it is not an activity that immediately goes with proper surpluses or where the funding covers the bulk of the costs, then it is counting as a state financial risk. This means that we will have to take it into account anyway. However constructive the financing models are, we must increase the volume of investment in public finances. We are talking about new main roads, the Gothenburg Oslo railway, the Norrbotnia railway, all the infrastructure investments and a lot of other investments we are talking about. We will never have any rules on accountability. On the other hand, we are looking at all the possibilities to increase the conditions for making infrastructure investments, because this is needed. I would like to say once again that I appreciate the commitment. I am careful to follow the priorities of the region as well. We have a good and effective dialogue with the Norwegian Government and, of course, we also look at all the different options available. However, it is also necessary to agree in order to be able to reach a goal.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-374	Mr President, I would like to It is hardly surprising that in the short term the Västra Götaland region has prioritised the railway between Gothenburg and Borås, as it is closest to the museum. In fact, the journey time is longer today than when the railway was inaugurated, and it is indeed an example of the need for major investments. This investment is also extremely urgent, and I am just raising the possibility here of actually looking at whether it would not be possible to get investments going alongside the funding-funded solution, which is standard. We see that the traffic volumes across the Swedish-Norwegian border are larger than across the Öresund Bridge. This investment has proved to be very profitable and has brought great socio-economic benefits, and the solution that has been created precisely with regard to the Öresund Bridge makes it possible for investments in infrastructure other than just the bridge itself. There we are now looking at the possibility that, in the next step, when Öresundsbron's investments are paid for and it is more about operation and maintenance, can also be involved in contributing to the financing of the metro in the Öresund region. In a similar way, I think we should be able to reason on the Swedish-Norwegian border. This is our most important border when it comes to trade between Sweden and the rest of the Nordic countries and Europe, and it is also a way to actually get more out of already invested SEK. It is gratifying that the government is providing funds to make a fairway in the port of Gothenburg. The port of Gothenburg is Sweden's most important and largest port, but it is also Norway's. 70 per cent of their goods exports are via Gothenburg, so we will have more impact from the investments now made in Gothenburg, the railway investment Gothenburg– Oslo is also extremely central and important.
i-5e5eb8bf19f9522f-379	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Hultberg! I am pleased that more and more people are now looking at and highlighting various investments in infrastructure that need to be made. After all, it is because something is also happening: now we have a government that is actually implementing infrastructure investments. We put more resources in place than ever before, making it possible to hope and actually try to find new solutions to improve communications. It is important for Sweden as a small, export-dependent industrial country to have good communications out into the world. It is important for Sweden to also have good relations with our neighbour Norway and close the connections that exist, not least from the labour market point of view. I think Johan Hultberg and I share that objective. Let us find better opportunities to strengthen the infrastructure. But then we need to give it a financial priority. This calls for investment instead of tax cuts. This requires investments in rail and climate-smart ways to travel instead of other investments. These are clear priorities. We choose to do this. We do so in national plans, we do so in the transport policy we are pursuing and we do so in the plans we have for future revisions. There the Swedish Transport Administration is now working according to the region's wishes to look at the conditions also when it comes to improving the route between Gothenburg and Oslo. It remains to be seen if Johan Hultberg and I will travel on that route in the future. It's not impossible, like old Kronoberg colleagues. But if we do not, we must hope that we will still move the issue a little further forward through our commitment here.
