i-95098c125e506365-14	Mr President, I would like to Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me what I am going to do to persuade the country's teachers and school authorities to increase their skills through the development of skills in order to strengthen vigilance in the school system so that the risk of child abduction and disappearance can be prevented. Amineh Kakabaverh has also asked me what I intend to do to ensure that children and young people are safe and secure in the run-up to school holidays and that some of them must not disappear in the wake of the culture of honour, and what I intend to do to encourage schools and social authorities to cooperate more effectively in dealing with the victims of honour in the case of minors before children are taken out of the country. Finally, Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me whether I and the government intend to integrate knowledge of honorary oppression into teaching so that all teachers and all school staff become familiar with the problem so that they can identify and prevent oppression. Let me begin by emphasising that there should be no place whatsoever for honour-related violence and oppression in our society, least of all in school. Honour-related violence and oppression are one of the most abominable forms of oppression. The fact that children and young people are being taken out of the country and are at risk of being married away or sexually stymied is totally unacceptable and should not happen. Honour-related violence and repression are an issue that should be given more attention. It is therefore important that it is clear at all times that such things are never accepted. Human rights apply to everyone, regardless of age. Among other things, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child states that children must be protected against all forms of violence and be able to enjoy social security. For me, as Minister of Education, this becomes not least a question of the equal opportunities of all children and pupils to learn and develop in school. The school is an important player in combating honour-related violence and oppression. It has a democratic mission to give children and students knowledge of their rights. Everyone who works in school should promote children's and pupils' respect and affirmation of fundamental values, such as equality and the equal value of all people. The National School Administration offers the school system tools for development work, such as support material et Honour-related violence and oppression – the school's responsibility and opportunities, which was revised in 2018. The problem of school absences linked to, among other things, honorary oppression is also addressed in the Bill Collection for the School (prop. 2017/ 18:182 p. 59). In accordance with the bill, the vice-chancellor's responsibility has been clarified when it comes to the fact that absences are investigated and reported to the principal as soon as possible. Strengthening the work against honour-related violence and repression is a priority for the government. The January agreement, the political agreement reached between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, shows that the school's work against honour-related violence and oppression will increase. A national security and study plan shall be implemented. In addition, the Swedish National Agency for Education has recently presented proposals for changes in curricula for the field of sex and cohabitation. This commission includes, among other things, links to honor-related violence and repression. The proposals are now being prepared within the Government Office. The January agreement also states that sex and cohabitation education should be a compulsory part of teacher education at universities and higher education institutions. Mr President, I would like to While the school can and must do more, the school cannot do everything. Cooperation with other authorities and stakeholders is of central importance. The student health and school's work with reports of concern to the social welfare committee is an important development area. A survey shows that 70 per cent of the students report that they would receive support from staff in pupil health or any other adult at the school ( Örebro University 2018). The Government has commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education and Social Welfare to carry out early and coordinated development work for children and young people (U2017/ 01236/ GV). The assignment shall be reported by 31 January 2021 at the latest. The report "Enhanced protection against honor-related crime" (SOU 2018:69) points out that further measures may need to be taken to strengthen cooperation to prevent pupils, care seekers and others from being taken abroad for marriage or genital mutilation. The report is currently being prepared within the Government Office. Since 2005, the County Administrative Board of Östergötland has the national mission of the Government to combat honour-related violence and oppression. The government also has a special initiative in the area of family conflict, which means an increased capacity for the foreign administration to deal, among other things, with cases where people are taken out of the country and subjected to honour-related violence and repression. In this context, it is often the case that people who are distressed by their loved ones may, among other things, be exposed to forced marriages, genital mutilation, threats, coercion or violence on the part of the family. In addition, the Government has decided on a cross-sectoral national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women including honour-related violence and repression 2017 – 2026. The strategy also applies to children. Through a series of decisions and ongoing work, we take several important steps forward in the fight against honour-related violence and repression. That struggle will continue until every man has the power to decide his own life.
i-95098c125e506365-22	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for a detailed answer and a series of important statements on what the government should do! There is no doubt about the government's will and ambitions to invest and do things in this area, but as long as laws and regulations are not implemented and followed up, children, especially young girls and teenage boys, will unfortunately be victims of the government's carelessness and lack of cooperation and cooperation. I, for my part, am interested in the children's conditions and want to know how they are doing. I am, of course, also interested in what our authorities and agencies are doing to prevent children from getting hurt in democracy. The school, just as the minister was inside, should be a free arena where children can feel safe. Unfortunately, this is not the first time we have received reports from the media about children being taken out of the country. It's been about 30 just after summer vacation. Before the summer, I myself came in contact with some girls who, during the summer vacation, would be promised away in their parents' old homelands. The parents have left these countries but prefer to keep the children there. Some teenage boys are abducted because their parents have completely failed in their upbringing, because of gang crime or because their parents do not want Swedish democracy to apply to their children. They do not want children to claim the same rights. There are a few different aspects to this issue, but in the case of girls it is forced and child marriage. You want to marry them before they're 18 years old, but we have a law that forbids this. Unfortunately, the social services, where my colleagues work, often have stressful and difficult, and there are shortcomings in their preventive work. I myself have been a social worker and municipal politician and have often raised the issue of children who disappear out of the country, but the measures of social services end as soon as the child is abroad. There's the school all hands-on. I think that there should be periodic penalty payments and that the school should take the children back, but as long as the children are not present in the social services or social services, they will suffer in other parts of the world. This is serious. Since 2008, I have highlighted in various ways in this House the fact that children disappear every year. We do not know much about many children in religious or private schools, but it is mostly municipal schools that are transparent. It is important to emphasise this. The only initiative that the government has made and that I myself have been involved in through Neither whore nor hived was the initiative that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs was commissioned to make in Amman and Nairobi, where they had staff to help children already taken out of the country. In order to prevent and support, cooperation and cooperation must be stepped up. Children's signals must be taken seriously by the school, which must report to the social services, which must also take them seriously. I hope that the government will make an effort there as soon as possible.
i-95098c125e506365-30	Mr President, I would like to I want to start by apologizing for my long interpellation response. I think they should be kept a little shorter than I did this time. The reason is that an account of all the efforts that have been made and all the efforts that are under way take a long time. I can agree with Amineh Kakabaveh on a number of points raised in the honourable Member's speech. First of all, the efforts made by authorities and agencies and initiated by the government are only worth just as much as the impact on the children who are out there. There Amineh Kakabaveh is quite right. These efforts must be looked at from below, from the children's perspective. At the same time, the efforts made by the government to ensure that efforts can reach children must take the form of missions, various forms of legislative or regulatory changes or grants. This may sound bureaucratic, but it is in this way that we help social workers, school curators, student health staff, the enthusiasts who work at the County Administrative Board Östergötland and all staff at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who during the summer have worked extra to ensure that children are not taken away and that the children at risk of being taken away should have somewhere to turn if they do not get help elsewhere. These efforts must therefore be examined from a bottom-up point of view. I, who have been following this issue for many years, can say that society's efforts have increased. Society's understanding that the problem of honour is great and that the enormous oppression it can bring, not only for individuals but for whole groups, is being taken much more seriously today. I am proud to have experienced this development but also rather sad when I think of how many of us in Sweden have historically taken these issues too lightly. The efforts that have been made are numerous. This is about more stringent school absenteeism law, and I would like to point out that the legislation applies to both municipal schools and independent schools, including schools with a secular focus. The coordinated efforts of the Swedish National Agency for Education and Social Security are important in order to provide knowledge and tools for those working in schools and social services. The mission that has gone to the Swedish National Board of Education to counteract honor has resulted in a new and revised edition of the important book that was produced a few years ago at the Swedish National Board of Education and that I know from personal experience has become very important for many in the school world. We're working on banning child marriage. It is legislation that took its time but is now in place. We also work with various forms of law enforcement in respect of crimes with honorary motives and children's marriages as well as children carried out for the purposes mentioned by Amineh Kakabaveh. I would like to say that a great deal is being done, but I fully agree that even more needs to be done. And I fully agree with Amineh Kakabaveh that the stakes are only worth as much as they matter to the girls and boys out there.
i-J41x6TFdQgasHFU1b55FyT	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I agree that many things have been done and will be done, but I still think there are shortcomings in many schools. For example, it is hard work, a lot of trouble, and sometimes you don't even have a curator. A lot of school staff are on sick leave, and when others come in, the children do not feel safe. If they have problems with honor, they can't tell anyone. This concerns the safety of many children and young people. I move a lot in schools, but the schools where efforts against honour repression and society's information on democratic freedoms and rights are to be found never allow such debates to take place. I mean the schools that even the S's Congress has decided will be banned. They're honor's greenhouse. In many of these religious and private schools, girls' sexuality and behavior are controlled, and boys are to control their sisters and other female relatives. There we must prevent, and official work is important. Our voice, our laws and our values protect children, women and young people and are important, but we must signal that it is not possible to open such schools and other activities with tax funds. It'll be totally counterproductive. On the one hand, we are doing everything we can to prevent, but on the other hand, we do not even know what is going on in these schools. This applies to both large cities and smaller towns. I myself have been contacted by several curators in the country, who employ native language teachers and school staff who control the girls. As soon as a girl laughs aloud, it's reported home, and the same if she talks to a guy. These parents are warned that their children do not behave as they should in the footsteps of honor. They're being controlled and taken out of the country. This is what I think we need to pay close attention to. It does not matter that we have all the laws in place if they are not implemented. What I tell you is there; it reports teachers and curators in the country. I received eight pages of letters after the interpellation I woke up. Some schools warned and said: Amineh, this is much bigger than that – how lucky it is to be highlighted! This must go out as a signal to all schools. Many authorities do not get into the schools either. Many schools do not even know that we have a strong authority in Östergötland that works with this. In many schools where this is needed, nonprofit forces do a lot of the work that the school and the authorities are actually supposed to do. The cooperation between social services and the school is very crucial for us to be able to protect these children. When a child is taken care of according to LVU or current in the social services, it should not be able to be removed. We must somehow find a solution to this – threatening parents that they must bring their children back and never take them out of the country.
i-95098c125e506365-43	Mr President, I would like to I believe that it is a privilege to run a school in Sweden. The principal of a school, whether it is a municipality or an independent principal, has gained society's great confidence to be responsible not only for knowledge and education but also for safety and security – as well as to comply with the laws and regulations that exist for Swedish school activities. As far as the questions put by Amineh Kakabaveh are concerned, these laws apply exactly as much in municipal schools as in independent schools. They apply to independent and non-confessional schools. Of course, the laws should be followed. I am very proud of the January agreement that the government – or government parties – have concluded together with the Center Party and the Liberals to be truly formal. In the January agreement, we are committed to strengthening student health. We are committed to ensuring that there are resources available for our public activities, such as the school, and we have said that those resources will increase. They will increase at a steady pace during their term of office. It is precisely as Amineh Kakabaveh says: this work is costly and difficult, and it requires school staff to have the necessary resources. There also needs to be access to pupil health, such as curators, in schools. In the budget that was put on Parliament's table just a few weeks ago, we also proposed an equivalence grant, which we reinforce so that next year it will be 4.9 billion and the year thereafter 6.2 billion kronor. This equivalence grant is to go to school, and it is designed in such a way that the schools where the needs are greatest – and this is precisely the schools that Amineh Kakabaveh is talking about here – will have the greatest resources. In the January agreement, we have also decided that we want to ban the establishment of independent, secular schools. It is a decision I am very happy about, and I will work hard to make it a reality. Amineh Kakabaveh reminded of the Congress of the Social Democrats' decision to say no to all religious free schools. In the January agreement, in my view and my social democratic glasses, we are taking a good step on the road by working to ban the establishment of religious free schools. Last but not least, Mr President, it is included in the January agreement that we should draw up stricter, more rigorous and tighter rules on how religious practice can take place within the framework of the education of free schools which today are secular free schools. There is a need for tightening up here. However, regardless of all this, laws and regulations already apply. I would strongly urge everyone who listens to this debate to take this issue very seriously, as Amineh Kakabaveh does. Is it that there are misconceptions and that someone in the name of so-called honour oppresses children in Swedish school – report! Write to the school inspectorate and the principal! Get in touch with the police! Be involved in contributing to the disappearance of this discord not only from Swedish society but, from my point of view, from the Swedish school!
i-95098c125e506365-49	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the commitment shown here, Minister! These are very good exhortations, but I think like this: if the principal or the school itself has these attitudes and values, that is to say that the attitudes exist in already established schools, should we allow children to be moved there from municipal schools because of the parents' fear that the children will live like all other children? The school should be a free zone where girls should be able to play, laugh and actually even talk to guys on the same terms as others. The public room should apply to all children. Unfortunately, I come into daily contact with girls who have either attended secular schools or go there, and there is this in the school itself. There are staff there who have a kind of contract with the children's parents to report how the children behave. So this already exists in the schools that you still do not want to remove, the Council of State. The damage has already been done. We already have about thirty children who have disappeared. I was in Uppsala last week, and there they talked about a number. The same applies to Östergötland, and it occurs in the Gothenburg region and in the Malmö region. This is everywhere – with the good memory of ours, the schools and the authorities. These children's parents, who have fled war and poverty for children to grow up in a democracy and get an education, stay here and send their children to relatives they don't even know. I hope that we will get to grips with this as soon as possible. These kids are coming back.
i-95098c125e506365-53	Mr President, I would like to Gender equality is something that should not only benefit a few, but should benefit everyone. In the Swedish school, where gender equality is one of the key elements of the values that apply to all schools and all teaching, gender equality should not be a privilege for just some. Gender equality should not be reserved for children who are raised in certain schools or in certain families, but should be guaranteed to all girls and all boys in our Swedish school. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the heroes of everyday life who work in our social services and not least in our schools and who are the adults to whom children today actually turn. We should remember that the children we talk about often have confidence in adults in their schools and that they often turn to these adults. Great work is being done out there, but those who do this work need resources. They need good legislation and a skills base. They need knowledge and good practices. Not least, they need the support of the whole community in their important work to ensure that Swedish school is there for all children, not just for some, when they really need it. Last, Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Amineh Kakabaveh for the great work she has not only done but continues to do. I look forward to Amineh Kakabaveh continuing to act as a blowtorch on this issue. It's very important, and we all have to do our part. Thank you, Amineh Kakabaveh, for the work you have done and will do!
i-95098c125e506365-56	Mr President, I would like to Hans Rothenberg and Jens Holm have asked a number of questions regarding electric scooters. The Government has today decided to commission the Swedish Transport Agency to investigate the need for simplified rules for electric single-person vehicles in order to create a safer traffic environment. I look forward to documentation from the Swedish Transport Agency and a good dialogue with the municipalities. If regulation is needed, I am prepared to act.
i-95098c125e506365-59	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. If this had been the radio programme In the minute, the minister would have made it by a very good margin. The interpellation that I have made about electric scooters in urban environments I wrote at the beginning of the summer. Summer came between, and there were some delays in the answer. Here we are, four months later. During this time, as the Minister pointed out, the government has also acted. I think it is important that we take this discussion in the Swedish Parliament, because this is a phenomenon that has arisen in a short time and that involves most people who are in some form of urban environment in Sweden. The many electric scooters that have been placed in Swedish cities in a short time have met mixed reactions. This is partly due to their speed, often at high speed, walking and cycling paths, and partly due to the fact that they stand parked or are thrown away about noise on sidewalks and free spaces where they are in the way. The concept of the electric scooters is that they can easily be used via an app function on the phone. After use, just set off the electric scooter anywhere, without caring more about it. Well, that's good, that's good. However, the lack of responsibility and management of these vehicles by both manufacturers and owners and users does not seem to be of a transitory nature. This very lack of responsibility, Mr President, for the electric scooters and their use is at the heart of the issue. This way they are presented, but not least how they are left behind, creates general irritation and also obstacles and dangers to traffic. They create confusion on walking surfaces as well as in lanes. Recently, or this summer – when I wrote this it was recently – was the first death in Sweden where an electric scooter was involved a fact. Having now taken in the magnitude of the minister's response to my interpellation, I am pleased that the government is taking up the issue. But I would like to ask one more question. The Minister replies that the Government has commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to investigate the need for simplified rules. Is it simplified rules that are what we need best in terms of electric scooters? I would like to say that we need more stringent rules. Hans Cassepierre, investigator of the Swedish Transport Agency, said in connection with the death accident in Helsingborg this summer: This is a vehicle that should not be in traffic. Now the Swedish Transport Agency has been commissioned by the Government to review this carefully. Personally, I would like to say that there is much that needs to be done. There needs to be a separate rating for these vehicles. There is a need to review speed limits that will also be possible to follow up. There must be protection for users, a helmet or the like. There's a need for an age limit. This is a vehicle, not a toy. Mopeds are allowed to drive when you are 15 years old. The electric scooters we see ten-year-olds driving around with. There must also be clear ownership responsibility. Who is responsible before, during and after travel? There also needs to be orderly parking conditions. Maybe there's a need for a registration of the vehicles. We don't know, but maybe the investigation will come up with that. Municipalities should be given increased opportunities to restrict and prohibit the unauthorised deployment of vehicles. I would like to hear the Minister's comments on this.
i-95098c125e506365-70	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. But I think it was a very scarce answer, just as Hans Rothenberg of the Moderates said in his comment. I hope for more detailed information on what measures the government intends to take. I would also like to thank Mr Rothenberg and the Moderates for the fact that you also want to take action on this issue so that we can get our paths straight. Not least here in Stockholm, during the summer, we have seen practically a chaos created by these electric scooters, electric scooters or whatever you want to call them. Here in Stockholm we have eight different commercial companies that compete with each other. There are thousands of bicycles on display, and just as Mr Rothenberg said earlier, they can be displayed anywhere and also left anywhere. It means a great freedom for these companies to be able to offer their services in a limited urban environment, where a lot of other things will fit. That is why it will be a restriction for all of us, not least for those who are disabled, when we are going to move forward in the urban environment. Sometimes it is said that the electric forwarders are environmentally friendly. They could possibly be if they were somehow included in the public transport network. Then you could go the last mile on the electric scooter instead of waiting for a bus with bad slots or the like. It is a major problem today that we do not have our own classification of these vehicles. As has been said, they are classed today as bicycles, so they can be taken without an age limit, without a helmet, on bicycle paths and even on sidewalks where pedestrians should be, given that you keep what is called walking speed. That is why I think that it would be very helpful to have these vehicles classified separately so that we can get things right. I would like to ask the Minister directly whether it is in the Road Definitions Act or in the Traffic Regulation that the classification is different. Do we need to change the law to get our own classification, or could the government go directly with the Traffic Regulation? I would also like to ask the Minister what the municipalities can actually do to get a better order on this. We have the Order Act, and the municipalities issue local regulations. Can our municipalities, for example, with the support of the Order Act, take sufficient measures to ensure that things are orderly? Can we, for example, ensure that this is subject to authorisation? If you have a food truck and sell food, you must have permission from the municipality and have to pay a certain amount for it. It could be the same with the electric scooters. But they're only on display anyway.
i-95098c125e506365-78	I would also like to ask a question about the Minister saying that simplified rules are needed and that a mandate has been given to the Transport Agency. Aren't there stricter rules we need? As far as I understand it, the Swedish Transport Agency is already conducting an investigation. Is this some extra investigative work? And when will the Swedish Transport Agency be completed with its investigation into this?
i-95098c125e506365-80	Mr President, I would like to Thanks to both Hans Rothenberg and Jens Holm for the commitment! I really appreciate it. The massive expansion we have seen of electric kick bikes or e-scooters has been the big issue in many of Europe's countries and also in other parts of the world. Although it was not like In the Minute, I think everyone understands that the reason why it was a brief answer is that it was today that we decided on the mission to the Swedish Transport Agency. So it is only now that we can make it public. Let me tell you a little more about the mission. It is a broad task of the Swedish Transport Agency to describe both the regulations that exist today and the challenges that exist for electric scooters. But this also applies in general to single-person electric vehicles. There are several different categories that are now emerging on the market. It is, of course, about identifying and examining the need for regulatory changes, and it is not just simplified rules. I look forward to proposals for tightening up or other types of regulation that are not on the table today. These are, of course, rules on the movement of vehicles, the consequences for urban planning and, not least, the introduction of new requirements for hirers in terms of both information and authorisation requirements for the rental of electric scooters. It is a broad mission, and it is done for the intended reason. We have seen how a rather large expansion of the number of electric scooters, not least in Stockholm, has led to a disorder and disorder on the streets and roads. It has created uncertainty among other road users and has led to an increase in the number of accidents. The latest statistics say that there are 363 accidents, of which 1 fatal accident and 14 serious accidents, so it is clear that we must act. The main responsibility lies with the municipalities. I am concerned that not all municipalities are using the tools at their disposal. It is an answer to Jens Holm : It is clear that you can use the law of order to also make local regulations. This has not been done to the extent possible. Not least in Stockholm you could have had a better order if you used the funds at your disposal. Of course, it is also a responsibility of the rental companies. In Stockholm, I think there are eight companies that market their services. If you do this aggressively and in a way that does not mean that it is done properly but creates uncertainty and disorder, it leads to the risk of populist demands to ban electric scooters. It doesn't do the industry any good. The industry therefore has a responsibility to ensure that the establishment of electric scooters works well. That said, the electric scooter is both loved and hated. Many people get annoyed by it and feel that it causes trouble in the urban environment. But it is also a welcome addition for more people to be able to make their way forward and to increase mobility, not least in urban centres. Let us therefore ensure that we have clear rules for the use of electric scooters and proper dialogue with the industry. We must also ensure that municipalities assume their responsibilities and have clarification of the rules at their disposal. It is also a need for changes, not least in terms of classification. Here Jens Holm is right; in that case, you should use the law on road definitions. The government's ambition is to create order, not to ban electric scooters. We want to ensure that the municipalities and the industry assume their responsibilities, and we will investigate and create the best basis for regulating their use. Therefore, I look forward to the Transport Agency's first interim report coming in March 2020.
i-95098c125e506365-91	Mr President, I would like to Let me pick a little in the headline flora of these vehicles: This is a little bit of what it's all about. During my life as an inveterate cyclist, I have never experienced that kind of headlines about displeasing driving of non-electrified bicycle vehicles. I'll get back to ownership. When there is no such thing as reckless behaviour and getting rid of these vehicles in a very imaginative way in many contexts. They can also be driven everywhere – towards the direction of travel, on sidewalks, in bicycle tracks, and on ordinary streets. Speed is also a factor in this context. Another dimension is the daily collection of electric scooters. It is done with trucks that use GPS irradiated and try to pick up the vehicles for service and charging. These load vehicles create exhaust gases and emissions. The environmental benefit is therefore more limited than if there had been orderly parking places for the scooters. The mass produced electric scooters are cheap and have a short life span. There is therefore a limited incentive to care for the same, as it is initially in the calculation that they are quickly replaced by new appliances. For disabled people, especially the visually impaired, these discarded vehicles are a real obstacle to mobility and cause damage. This has now been going on for so long that they have been able to collect a fairly solid photo register of creative handling of electric scooters, in the middle of walkways and more. But I won't give more inspiration to those who want to park wrong. From a public health perspective, it is also a direct buy-out to roll forward instead of walking or cycling. Now I sound like that whiny old man I once said I'd never be. But sometimes you can take a little freedom, and it is worth pointing out these flaws. There are many people who do not live in places where these vehicles are deployed, and then this debate may seem superfluous. But sooner or later they will come, and I would like future deployments to have a completely different order. There are some plus factors. In Gothenburg, bicycle thefts have decreased t. On the other hand, the number of robberies with electric scooters has increased. So there is a zero-sum game. An owner of a car is held responsible even if it is used by another person who, for example, drives drinkers. Owners of electric scooters cannot be held without responsibility when their vehicles are used by others in traffic. We should not restrict the ownership of or ban electric scooters. I am pleased that the government has taken an initiative, and I think we could help each other. I have written a motion that now goes into Parliament's archives, and the government is happy to draw further inspiration from it in its further work.
i-95098c125e506365-104	Mr President, I would like to Now we got a little more meat on our feet from the minister, which was good. I would like to say to Mr Rothenberg that there is also a motion by the Left Party in this area. It is amazing if we can agree relatively from right to left that we need more order in terms of the electric scooters on our streets. I welcome the fact that the Minister is so clear about how our municipalities can, under the Order Act, issue local regulations in order to get better order on the electric scooters on our streets. I very much hope that representatives of the City of Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and others will listen to this debate and not wait until we have acted in government and parliament. They must understand that they themselves, at municipal level, can largely steer this activity. The chaos, the accidents and the limitation of accessibility occur in municipalities' land and in their street networks. I therefore hope that they will start to act now. This activity is governed by certain laws and, of course, when the Road Definitions Act was passed, it could not be known that 20 years later we would have electric kicking vehicles on our streets. I therefore look forward to an investigation proposal on the separate classification of these vehicles. Let me also emphasise that an investigation has already been carried out. It was financed by Trafikverket, and it is located on Trafikverket's website and is called Electric Single Person Vehicles. The summary already states that a separate classification would be desirable. I think it is a good thing that the inquiry that the Minister has now commissioned has such a broad mandate that virtually all aspects of the electric scooters are covered. That's very good. I think, for example, that the requirement of renters and the requirement of authorisation are extremely important. In this way, it will also be possible to set up and return points for these electric scooters and hopefully ensure that they complement the public transport system in order to obtain the environmental benefits that these vehicles could bring. I also think it was a good thing that the Minister raised the issue of moving vehicles. Today we have an old law that I believe is called the Act on the Transfer of Vehicles. It means that a separate government decision must be taken for each disposal of these electric scooters. It is extremely difficult, so I hope that this too will be corrected. Mr President, I would like to What I have in mind is the timetable. The Minister said there will be partial reporting in March 2020. I think it is extremely important that we have new rules in place before summer 2020. Can the Minister promise us that we will? The chaos and the risks to safety and accessibility that we have seen this summer, I never want to experience again.
i-95098c125e506365-111	Mr President, I would like to I thank both Jens Holm and Mr Rothenberg. We can see that we agree both on the challenges that exist and on the opportunities that exist. I will meet with the industry to talk to them both about their perspective and about their responsibility not to end up in a situation where aggressive establishment and lack of responsibility lead to demands to ban electric scooters. I think that would be unfortunate. We have seen that trend in other cities around the world. Even in Manhattan, electric scooters were banned, but that will change in the future. Of course, I'm also going to read the exercise. This is something we should work on broadly together. However, I would like to warn against spontaneous legislative proposals on DN Debate based on a personal perception of what is reported in the media. This is legislation. These are rules that can be applied technology-neutrally to what comes after electric scooters and to other types of vehicles. That is why we need a solid basis for the legislative proposals or regulatory changes we are going to make. I see, of course, that a great deal of regulation is urgent, but I also share the view expressed by Jens Holm and – I believe – Mr Rothenberg that there are already tools to be used today. Municipalities can use the Order Act to a greater extent. There can be clearer dialogue with rental companies. One can also be clear about the rules that apply today. For any listeners following this debate, it may also be useful to know that the rules currently in force are the same as for cycling. This means that minors should wear helmets, that it is not okay to drive these vehicles severely drunk and that you should not ride two on a single-person vehicle. It's pretty basic, simple rules about where to drive and where not to drive. It is also possible for the municipality to make additional implementing rules. So there is already a tool for doing things today. Let us ensure that this is done in an orderly manner and in a way that means that we take the opportunity to create what is commonly referred to in the debate as mobility as a service, that is, that we increase mobility in cities so that the last 300 metres to the meeting do not have to go by car but may go by an electric scooter. At the same time, let us be clear about the risks that may exist, such as environmental or littering aspects, and ensure that municipalities have knowledge and know-how and apply the tools available. The mission of the Swedish Transport Agency means that several aspects will be widely highlighted. The first reporting is due by March 2020. Then it will be possible to report on various other parts continuously over the years to come. I hope for a good dialogue to continue. I hope we all realise that this vehicle, which is both loved and hated, has come to stop. Let us ensure that we now create an order and order in the traffic situation in cities that will allow people with disabilities to feel safe, that we reduce the number of accidents involving vulnerable road users, that we find a coordination where bicycles, electric scooters and other types of vehicles can actually co-operate in traffic and – above all – that we realise that this can create more opportunities for people to meet. But this requires responsibility from companies and clear rules on what applies. This requires the responsibility of the municipalities and the effective application of the rules on collection and order. Of course, we also need to look at all the possibilities. Perhaps a different definition is required or we will find other ways of regulating what will be future vehicles. Then we are talking about technology-neutral legislation – I would like to say that anyway. Now it is electric scooters, but in a few years there may be something quite different we are talking about. Let us therefore hold the debate in such a way that we create a regulatory framework that can also work in three or five years' time.
i-95098c125e506365-123	Mr President, I would like to I think we are quite in agreement on this issue. But it is also important that we highlight this issue in the Swedish Parliament. Many of the problems that have existed around everyday cycling have been tried for years to deal with, and this has led to increased road safety. Let us now ensure that this work is not undone as far as electric scooters are concerned. However, the major problem with electric scooters as vehicles is not precisely this, but the problem – and I want to get back to this – is responsibility. The responsibility lies in several places. It lies with the producers of these vehicles, with the owners, who place them, and with the users. It is also largely up to the state and the municipality to create sensible rules for this. Today, anarchy prevails as to use, causing great irritation. It needs to be taken a long time. What I would like to send along as one of the most important points in this context is that this is a vehicle that needs its own rating. To its construction, it does not resemble a bicycle much more than having two wheels and a handlebar. There also needs to be some form of age limitation that is possible to follow up. It should be impossible to abuse the whole thing. There is a need to create conditions for parking and docking stations. Solving that problem will have dealt with quite a large part of these strange, imaginative parking spaces. But, as I said, ownership is needed. With this, I would like to give the Minister support in the forthcoming work and a kick on the road – rather than a power park in the back! Thank you for the debate.
i-95098c125e506365-128	Mr President, I would like to The Minister says he doesn't want a ban, he wants a better order. But I would like to emphasise that there are places where electric scooters have been banned. The minister mentioned Manhattan, and there are also other places in the United States. In Switzerland and Germany, these vehicles were for a long time banned. I do not think that we can compromise in any way whatsoever with the safety and accessibility of our cities; that is the case. I do not want us to land in a ban either, but that requires a better order. It is also quite urgent that we get a better order. A separate vehicle classification, an age limit, that this should be subject to authorisation and that it should be easy for our municipalities to remove fault-parked vehicles are some, I think, relatively simple measures that I hope will be in place before summer 2020. That is when this will start again in full seriousness. That is why I would like to send the Minister something about the timetable. Don't let this be a mega-investigator that goes on for years! Then the risk is that we will be standing here again next summer with similar problems. There are concrete things that the government can do here and now, and I hope that will be done. I also welcome the Minister's clear communication to our municipal politicians and officials: you too can act. Perhaps most of the responsibility for controlling this operation lies with you out there. There are few things that prevent you from acting here and now. I would like to thank you for this debate – I think it has been very interesting.
i-95098c125e506365-133	Mr President, I would like to I think it has been an interesting and certainly popular discussion for those who have followed it. I think the conclusion is that it is a clear municipal responsibility to avoid what we could see this summer, the disorder and uncertainty that existed and the accidents that actually happened. Here, municipalities have greater opportunities to act by using the existing regulations already in place. But it is also about the responsibility of the industry, taking responsibility for how the establishment takes place and realizing the risks of an aggressive establishment strategy. This will lead to a requirement to limit the use of electric scooters to a very large extent. There is a need for national rules, but there should be national rules based on science and facts, not just simple draft ideas on how regulation should be. There should also be rules based on international experience. I think I can tell you an anecdote during my speaking time. I was at an ITF forum in Leipzig. There, the world's transport politicians meet. There are different perspectives when we meet from all over the world and discuss what challenges you have as transport minister. So a minister happened to say: With us right after this summer we happen to have trouble with electric scooters. Then everyone laughed at recognition. All of a sudden, it wasn't about countries' different conditions – everyone had about the same challenge. There we see that different strategies are being used, from bans – which are then often lifted – over fairly strong regulation in the area of security to rather liberal regulations. In Sweden, safety comes first. In Sweden, the need for order comes first. This will guide the mission of the Swedish Transport Agency, while at the same time we must see the possibility of being able to use the electric scooters in the future. Together we will make sure that there will be both order and order and also a good opportunity for mobility in the cities in the future.
i-G6WdVAhyhYaz2VALRfmoJx	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for the Environment and Climate Change Isabella Lövin, Minister for Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister of State Peter Eriksson and Minister for Education Anna Ekström. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for the Environment and Climate Policy Isabella Lövin answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility.
i-95098c125e506365-138	Madam President, I would like I would like to put my question to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. Education is an important issue for the Moderates. We are concerned that grades in grade 9 are falling and that a decreasing proportion of students are eligible for upper secondary school. Therefore, the Moderates are now investing 2 billion in more teaching hours. We're spending $350 million on holiday school. We're investing in more career teacher services. We want to provide more resources for vulnerable schools and pupils who need special support. We invest 100 million in language preschool for children who come here early as new arrivals and need to learn the language. My question to the Minister for Education is what school initiatives she intends to make. We see you're making a bet of about $100 million. This is about price and salary compensation. We do not see any major investment, but most redeployment between different items. We also see that you do not spend any money on the municipalities, where the schools actually exist. We see this with great concern because there is a risk that municipalities will have to save a lot of money.
i-95098c125e506365-143	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Marie-Louise Sandström, for an important question. However, it is a bit ironic that on the same day as the Moderates present a draft budget summarising a lower sum than the government stands for in the area of marriage 16, Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström asks what the government intends to do. One important thing is about the resources for school. There the government, together with the Centers and Liberals, shoots at 5 billion in a strengthening of the municipal economy. Next year we will be spending 4.9 billion and the year after that 6.2 billion on a completely new equivalence grant that will give more money to those who need it most. Unlike the Moderates, our efforts represent a significant reinforcement. I would like to put the question back to Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström: in what way does less money for the school mean greater opportunities to strengthen knowledge outcomes?
i-95098c125e506365-146	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Education is talking about the money spent on equivalence. We see that the same amount is drawn from the money to the number of employees in primary school. I'm afraid it'll be plus minus zero. The Moderates invest 10.5 billion directly on municipalities because municipalities and schools say they want a long-term perspective. They want to know that they have funding so that they don't worry about the school. You can then also invest more locally in the needs you have. So I think we are making a pretty big effort – 10.5 billion is quite a lot of money.
i-95098c125e506365-148	Madam President, I would like What Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström refers to is an important initiative by the government. For years, municipalities and county councils have been complaining that they are receiving too many small and plotty state subsidies. We bring them together and give the opportunity to use the money. They should not come back to the Treasury, but should be used in school. Therefore, this major investment in broad state grants to the school will be of great importance. The fact that state subsidies are also socio-economically distributed is only good.
i-95098c125e506365-152	Madam President, I would like My question is to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. Swedish preschool is on her knees. The staff goes into the wall and is on sick leave. There are stoppages in several places in the country, and more and more time needs to be spent on peripheral tasks rather than on the core mission itself: spending time with the children. The group size is still larger than the Swedish National Agency for Education's recommendations. The number of children per teacher is also above the recommendation. In this desperate situation, in its draft budget, the government chooses to reduce the amount of aid to pre-schools by as much as SEK 700 million. This represents a 15% reduction compared to the previous year. The Swedish Democrats are moving in exactly the opposite direction compared to the government's budget and are investing 1.3 billion in preschool. So my question is: does the Minister of Education not hear the desperate cry for help from the pre-school, and does the Minister of Education not see what the situation is today in preschool?
i-95098c125e506365-157	Madam President, I would like The situation is strained in many preschools. Much thanks to the great financial effort made by the government, the situation is still manageable in most places. It is also thanks to those we have seen declining groups of children in the statistics for several years in a row. The billion that the Swedish Democrats spend on preschool in their draft budget is more than equal to the 3 billion that the Swedish Democrats want to cut off from the large equivalence contribution. It also contrasts with the reduction in teachers' salaries and what you call an increase in ambition with more hours of teaching, which will draw considerable resources at the local level. How this can help the situation in preschool is for me a mystery, as the municipalities with your proposal would have to save so much on the school. You're proposing 1 billion for preschool, but a reduction of many more billion for the entire school system.
i-95098c125e506365-160	Madam President, I would like In fact, I had prepared an answer in which I gave all credit to the Minister for Education and the Government for realizing their mistake and choosing to back away from the proposal to reduce aid to preschool. But I can see that I can simply put that answer aside. However, it is clear that the Minister for Education still believes that improvements are needed in preschool. I want to know in plain terms how reduced funding of 700 million leads to improvements in our preschool.
i-95098c125e506365-162	Madam President, I would like There are no reductions in the current budget proposal for appropriations which are specifically earmarked for preschool. In addition, there are increases in general funding for municipalities, which will be of great importance. According to the Swedish Democrats, the billion that the Swedish Democrats want to spend on preschool should go to the children's groups as equal to 5 children per employee. Today the size is 5.1 children per employee. How would that make the difference in the incredibly negative description that Michael Rubbestad gives of preschool?
i-95098c125e506365-164	Madam President, I would like Sweden's long-term climate target is net zero emissions of greenhouse gases in 2045 and then negative emissions. Emission reduction, removal of carbon dioxide in forests and soils and carbon capture and storage are different ways of achieving this. The rest of the EU is heading towards net zero, at least part of the Member States. We have brought 24 out of the 28 with a view to 2050. Some countries are still there. Poland is an example. It is also the EU's most coal-dependent country. It is said that it is neither possible nor feasible to reach net zero by 2050. Right now, new mines are being opened. We can only say that there is a long way to go to net zero by 2050. An article in the DN today quotes representatives of Poland. It is said, as at EU meetings, that it depends on how much the European Commission can help us if we are to manage to do this. How are we going to get Poland, Minister for the Environment and Climate Policy Isabella Lövin?
i-95098c125e506365-169	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Qarlsson, for the extremely important question! We are all seeing global developments with large, important countries such as the United States and also Brazil expressing their reluctance to comply with the Paris Agreement. We need the European Union as a leader who can take the lead and really show an increase in ambition ahead of the Chile climate summit in December. As I said, we already have 24 countries that have agreed to increase their ambitions. Today we have an intense debate within the European Union on, for example, Mrs von der Leyen's proposal for a very transitory fund for the countries that are the last and have a low profile. Sweden is willing to see how to give lubricants but without increasing the EU budget overall.
i-95098c125e506365-172	Madam President, I would like What is so exciting about the balancing process is how we can use the EU as pressure, support and help for Poland to change and, at the same time, ensure that we do not take over those countries that do not have the same level of ambition. It is indeed a balancing process, both to ensure that they are on the track and to make the demands that we can make. Are there any discussions related to how to balance these two parts so that you don't fall into one ditch?
i-95098c125e506365-174	Madam President, I would like Sweden certainly does not want to see a reduction in the ambitions of these countries, but what we want is to support the social dimension of a transition. We know that many of these countries have a very high level of employment in the coal industry in particular, and that this may require efforts to switch to other jobs. Then there are funds dealing with the technological leaps themselves and how to support modernisation. But it is not that we should watch while others continue in the same style as before.
i-95098c125e506365-176	Madam President, I would like Swedish school and preschool face enormous challenges. Last week we received reports from the Swedish National Agency for Education that clearly show how equivalence is falling and that students whose parents are academics and have a financially good situation are getting easier in school. At the same time, we see how many children do not feel safe at school. We know that the results are very different from area to area. At the same time we have a government, led by Anna Ekström, which does not add any additional resources to the Swedish school. On the contrary, nearly SEK 2 billion is removed from the children who attend primary school and preschool. I wonder: what responsibility does Anna Ekström take for this, and what are the reasons for doing so?
i-95098c125e506365-179	Madam President, I would like The budget on Parliament's table means reinforcements to the school. This means that we are introducing a new equivalence premium, which we are extending from 4.9 billion next year to 6.2 billion the following year. In order to finance this, we have partly used the EUR 2 billion that Daniel Riazat is talking about and which have been part of the so-called 'bottom-up' initiative. But that money won't go away, Daniel Riazat. They'll still be in school. They will also – I suppose to Daniel Riazats's delight – be more likely to end up in the schools where the needs are greatest. With the new equivalence grant, the Swedish school will have more opportunities to plan long-term, and it will be more opportunities for the authorities to take their responsibility to strengthen equivalence. It simply becomes more predictable. The talk about 2 billion being lost doesn't make sense. The 2 billion remain, and they will be distributed even more fairly in the future.
i-95098c125e506365-183	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is rather strange, I have to say, that our Minister for Education believes that the Left Party, the teachers' unions and virtually everyone else who has looked at the budget are wrong. It is also rather strange to hold press conferences presenting initiatives that actually lead to reductions in other parts of the school or, as the Chair of the Teachers' Association said, taking from the younger children and giving it to the free school groups. That is exactly what these government initiatives will lead to.
i-95098c125e506365-185	Madam President, I would like I can only say that when you combine what is happening in the Swedish school budget, it ends in plus, not minus. I would like to see the calculation that claims to show that it ends with something other than plus. In addition, the government adds 5 billion in reinforcements to the municipal economy. I share Daniel Riazats's concern about the local economy. We need reinforcements, but we can do that without saying absolutely wrong about what reinforcements we are doing.
i-95098c125e506365-187	Madam President, I would like When the M-KD budget was voted through in December 2018, Minister of the Environment Isabella Lövin claimed that it ran the climate summit in Katowice off the track. She pointed out how it was then clear to the outside world that the Swedish Parliament voted through a budget that made it cheaper to release carbon dioxide, including by removing the over-indexation of fuel tax during the climate summit. To quote the Minister for the Environment, it was received with dismay. With the budget presented to Parliament on 18 September this year, the Minister for the Environment and her party are now doing the same, although twice as much as we did. We paused for six months. You're paused for a whole year. A few days after the budget was presented, the Minister for the Environment was at the UN climate summit in New York. I wonder: how was the reaction there to the government's and hence the Green Party's proposal that makes it cheaper to emit carbon dioxide? Was it the same dismay and doomsday atmosphere as in Poland?
i-95098c125e506365-190	Madam President, I would like What Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson is referring to is the adjustment of energy and carbon dioxide taxes that the government is doing with regard to the increased involvement of biofuels that will take place from the end of the year. The important thing is to reduce emissions. The reduction obligation imposed by the government, which means that we have constantly increased involvement in petrol and diesel according to a certain curve, is something that really reduces emissions, unlike when M and KD only remove a petrol tax indexation. Then it's all about making it cheaper to let out. What the government does is to pursue an active policy to promote biofuels and to actually reduce emissions.
i-95098c125e506365-193	Madam President, I would like I will quote from the Ministry of Finance's memo on what is now being implemented in the budget. The memorandum proposes a reduction in the CO2 and energy tax on petrol and diesel. The proposal leads to amendments to the Energy Tax Act. The amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2020. ..................................................... It is about energy taxes, exactly what I asked you about. Is it so that it's okay when we do it, isn't it?
i-95098c125e506365-196	Madam President, I would like I will be proud to go to the climate summit in Chile. There I will tell you about the reduction obligation that we have introduced, which actually reduces emissions in real terms and is the most powerful instrument we have. At the same time, I note that there are other parties here in the Swedish Parliament that are fully committed to only making it cheaper to release. Now it is not Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson's party, but the Moderates are moving forward with a very sharp decline right now. It will not reduce emissions.
i-95098c125e506365-198	Madam President, I would like 27 per cent of Sweden's stores have had thefts and shoplifting only the last week. Sixty-five percent of them chose not to press charges. 8 percent have experienced threats or violence associated with theft. Only 53 percent of them chose to press charges. 2 percent have had a break-in in the last week. Thankfully, these have been reported to the police. These are figures according to the Swedish Trade Security Barometer. We can see that many traders have lost faith in the judicial system and stopped reporting to the police.
i-95098c125e506365-201	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that we have a good dialogue with the Swedish Trade Union and the Association of Trade Employees on this problem. I met representatives of the ICA negotiators just a few months ago to review the measures we are now taking. These are a number of different measures. Perhaps the most important is the big investment we are now making at the Police Authority. The investments we are making now are larger than in 50 years. As we expand the police force and employ another 10,000 by 2024, that is an increase of 30%. Since we made this promise a few years ago, we have increased the workforce by over 3 000 employees. It is clear that it is extremely important to know not only that there is a strong police presence but also that the reports received are properly investigated. There, the great effort is extremely important for the food industry.
i-95098c125e506365-203	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Police efforts are great – we are in complete agreement – but let me quote a trader: The police rarely come, and then everything is closed down. Business should be based on belief in the future, commitment and trust, and on making money, not on pessimism, indifference and mistrust, or on emptying one's own wallet when others empty one's store. I do not think we can wait for more police officers, the Government, but the traders need action today.
i-95098c125e506365-207	Madam President, I would like The situation is that the police officers we started training during the last term of office are going out now. This is a bet that actually takes effect in the near future. For every six months, another hundred police officers will now complete the new training that we have started. We are training three times as many police officers as we did when we took office five years ago. In addition, we need to look at some legislation, such as a ban on access to shops. We are also actively working on this issue in the government.
i-95098c125e506365-210	Madam President, I would like Last Monday I attended an open meeting in Uppsala about security. Although the rain completely poured down, over 40 people came to Tunabergsskolan to discuss crime. It was a really good meeting. Parents, night hikers, students, and even a retired police officer took part in the discussion, and it was a completely different discussion from the one we see on television or in social media. That kind of discussion is often black and white and has simple answers, but here it was a reasoning conversation. Most of the posts were about how to keep young people away from crime from the beginning. This was the focus of those at the meeting. What can the school do? What can social services do? What can we all do to counteract it? My question to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson will be an echo from the meeting: How does the government work to prevent crime?
i-95098c125e506365-213	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank you for my last visit to Uppsala just a few weeks ago. I got a review from the police about how they work against gang crime and also participated in one of the security walks that I think are carried out in an extremely exemplary way in Uppsala. This is a concrete way of preventing crime in the cityscape. The government presented last week the major 34-point programme, which in various ways is a massive programme against gang crime. There we are tightening up some penalties, and we are moving forward with increased possibilities in terms of tools for the police. There are also strong social efforts in the programme, such as investing more in school and social services in vulnerable areas and ensuring that social services are present in the vulnerable areas at night and weekends so that we are able to break the new recruitment to the criminal gangs. If we are going to do this in the long term, it is also a matter of being proactive.
i-95098c125e506365-216	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the answer, Morgan Johansson! It is reassuring that the government is thinking along these lines and that it is not just a discussion about strengthening the police, which is of course necessary. This was also quickly reached at the meeting. We have a lot of points from the meeting that I will explain on another occasion. I think it is important that not only the government but also we in general have this kind of discussion. There is a craving for it, and we must have it because we have to deal with crime.
i-95098c125e506365-219	Madam President, I would like That is precisely why we need to work broadly. For some years now we have a national crime prevention programme and also new mandates for the Crime Prevention Council to look at this. I believe that these are fundamental issues such as how social services and schools work in the areas we are talking about, but also that there is an opportunity for confidence in the future for the young people we are talking about. The fact that we have much lower unemployment among young people now than four five years ago is extremely important from a preventive point of view.
i-95098c125e506365-221	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Peter Eriksson, Minister for International Development Cooperation. Antibiotic resistance is a serious and growing problem. The World Health Organization estimates that by 2050 we may be in such an emergency that 10 million people a year die from resistant bacteria. We are talking here about a global crisis. All parts of the world are affected, with the most tangible consequences for low-income countries. Sweden has a tradition of working preventively both in health care and in animal husbandry to combat antibiotic resistance. It is important that Sweden takes a global responsibility to counteract resistance.
i-95098c125e506365-225	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Amanda Palmstierna! As Amanda Palmstierna says, we have the right to be quite proud in Sweden of the work we have done. We have worked extensively in agriculture, animal health and health care for people together with a number of different authorities to get a good job to limit the risks of antibiotic resistance in Sweden, but we have realised that it is not enough. This is a global issue, and the lack of new antibiotics is something that affects all of us. If antibiotics continue to be used incorrectly in many other countries, this will cause problems for us too. That is why we have started extensive work at international level, on the one hand with regard to the UN and on the other hand with regard to the new fund where we are now investing 20 million and which has been set up internationally and globally to limit risks.
i-95098c125e506365-228	Madam President, I would like Can you tell us more about what will be included in the fund, Peter Eriksson, and what it is expected to contribute to? I also wonder how you see other countries now following? So far, Sweden and the Netherlands have made money. How do you view the future there? ( THIRD VICE PALMANN: I would like to remind you that we always speak through the President. )
i-95098c125e506365-230	Madam President, I would like This is a completely new fund that the Netherlands was the first to put into money, and now Sweden also comes. We believe and hope that many other countries will follow, because this is an incredibly important issue. As the questioner said, there is a risk that in a few decades we will have 10 million deaths every year because of the lack of antibiotics and that antibiotic resistance creates major problems. Otherwise, we will have huge costs for society.
i-J8GsvUgiEK2N9pjpCTZium	Madam President, I would like Climate change is an investment aid for local and regional measures to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases that affect the climate. Examples of measures granted are bicycle garages and vehicle simulators in teaching. Climate change is irresponsible policies that have proven to lead to small but very expensive emission reductions. The fact that the government then doubles this billion-dollar cost makes no sense. Last year, emissions in Sweden increased by 2 per cent. It is an obvious understatement to the government's climate policy. The priority means that the cities are excluded from the climate, which is difficult to explain because it is precisely in the cities that particles and emissions do the most damage. Four million die of air pollution. Madam President, I would like Why is urban traffic excluded in the Climate Tree?
i-95098c125e506365-234	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Westergren of the Moderates, for this question! It comes the same day that the Moderates present their shadow budget, where you completely cut off the Climate Tree. It is not true, as Sofia Westergren says, that the climate life is ineffective and does not really make a difference. Our agency The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency analyses this and sees that it is perhaps the most important instrument for conversion around the country. This applies to municipalities and regions as well as companies, which can then invest in climate-smart technology leaps and investments in, for example, charging infrastructure throughout the country and biogas plants. I could mention a number of companies that have got this to change, but I do not have time for that. At the same time, the Moderates today present a 7 billion tax cut on petrol and diesel – exactly the instrument that all experts say is the most effective way to reduce emissions.
i-95098c125e506365-237	Madam President, I would like It is very good that we are all protecting the climate and the environment. However, given that emissions increased by 2% last year, it is tricky that the Government is standing here saying that this is so effective. It is also the case that the industry now feels that it is strange that the cities are excluded from the Climate Centre.
i-95098c125e506365-238	Madam President, I would like A distinction must be made between long-term and short-term emission reductions. For short-term emissions reduction, we have the CO2 tax as the most important instrument. Raise the gas tax, and I'll show you emission reductions! However, the social consequences are quite wide-ranging. Instead, the long-term transition requires a climate leap. Then we need an industrial leap and a technological leap, and that is what we are doing with Climate Change. We also have support for green cities – which the Moderates remove.
i-95098c125e506365-240	Madam President, I would like To get some perspective: Only trafficking in human beings in Europe had a turnover of between EUR 3 billion and EUR 6 billion in 2015, according to Europol. It is money that really strengthens organised crime across Europe. News yesterday revealed both that the Nigerian mafia has now established itself in Sweden with human trafficking and drug trafficking and that even a Social Democratic politician earns a lot of money from human trafficking to Sweden. If you want to avoid a discussion about your own responsibility for a failed migration and criminal policy, you can definitely focus on blaming individuals' addiction problems in Danderyd, and you can always argue that you take human trafficking and human exploitation seriously. I think, however, that yesterday's news feed shows how much workshop really is behind those words. Madam President, I would like What does Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson intend to do to really counteract domestic actors – colleagues or not – and international leagues engaged in human trafficking and human exploitation?
i-95098c125e506365-243	Madam President, I would like First of all, one can well note that asylum immigration in Sweden is now generally at very low levels. We have the lowest level in 13 years. In addition, we have put in order not only on that page but also that people who are refused their asylum applications also leave Sweden; over the last five years, more than 70 000 have left Sweden after they have been rejected or because they are no longer asylum seekers. This means that we are now through the migration crisis, and I can say that I was not involved in taking Sweden out of that crisis and then leading the country back into it. We will ensure that we never end up in the situation that 2015 is repeated. Human smuggling is a serious crime, for it uses — exploits and exploits — weak people to make money. When you do that, you should know that the police and the judiciary are very strict about it. It doesn't matter who does it, it's about investigating those crimes and prosecuting the individuals.
i-95098c125e506365-245	Madam President, I would like I believe that the political opposition in this House – at least parts of it – and the world's criminals agree that Sweden is an attractive country to operate in if you want to engage in human trafficking and human exploitation. This also applies, of course, to drug trafficking and any other criminal activity that follows in its wake. I would like to ask how many of the 70 000 who have left Sweden have done so because the police have carried out internal checks on foreigners. I think the figure is closer to zero. With the policy being pursued now, with a more generous migration policy, this will also increase.
i-95098c125e506365-247	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely wrong that it would be zero who left Sweden as a result of internal foreigner controls. We are now carrying out more checks than we have done in a very long time, both internal foreign controls and – above all – workplace controls. Only last week, 100 construction sites in Sweden were checked to see if there was illegal labour on them. Of those construction sites, 25 had to shut down for health and safety reasons, because the condition was so bad. So the picture that Adam Marttinen is trying to paint is completely wrong.
i-95098c125e506365-248	Madam President, I would like The countryside is hard hit by theft leagues. Farmers are being robbed of tractors, plant protection products and GPS equipment. Forest contractors get rid of diesel and expensive machine parts. In the horse stables, saddles and other possessions disappear. In addition to the financial damage, these violations of houses, homes and businesses are extremely psychologically stressful. They are an attack on civil society and deserve action accordingly. In some places it has gone so far that rural businesses are considering closing down because of this. The Swedish Customs Service describes a situation where there are no tools to deal with the outflow of stolen goods, and the police describe a lack of resources to deal with thefts and burglaries in rural areas. My question to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson is therefore: what measures has the Minister and the Government taken – and what measures will the Minister and the Government take – to curb rural crime?
i-95098c125e506365-250	Madam President, I would like We are in the midst of a major police effort, as I have described before, where we are now increasing the number of employees by 30% by 2024. We are careful to point out that this is about strengthening not only in big cities but also in rural areas, and it is extremely important that we now ensure that resources are managed in this way. In addition to this, I would like to highlight the special mission we have given to the Coast Guard, Customs and the Police Authority to specifically target their efforts precisely on international theft leagues. We know which countries this is basically about – it is Lithuania, Poland, Romania and Georgia – and we are working bilaterally with them. We are working to expand police cooperation, to ensure that the criminals we prisoners here in Sweden will serve the sentences in their home countries and not in Sweden and to ensure that the methods of access to the theft leagues are developed. Customs has, of course, an important role to play there.
i-95098c125e506365-252	Madam President, I would like This is an issue that has been on the table for many years. Looking back, we see that this issue has been discussed back and forth for at least ten years. I am, of course, pleased that the issue has been looked at and taken a package around it, but what concerns me is the following: although there is a lot of talk about this, what is it that makes rural areas not feel that the measures are already in place?
i-95098c125e506365-253	Madam President, I would like I believe that in some respects there is a very clear result. For example, housing break-ins in southern Sweden decreased very sharply after we introduced border controls against Germany and Denmark. Then the risk of international thefts simply increased, and the effect was very evident from one year to another. In the 34-point programme we have, which focuses on organised crime, there is also an extension of border controls, which I see will be very effective in the future.
i-95098c125e506365-254	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has always fought for every victim to have the right to a plaintiff to receive the support and assistance that is so important during a trial. Last year, the government presented a bill that removed the right to legal counsel in the Court of Appeal. It has now proved to be a mistake. Prosecutors also demand the support of plaintiffs in the Court of Appeal, and the number of plaintiffs appointed has become too few. I visited the prosecutor's office in Norrköping on Monday, and this was their great contribution. I now ask the government to correct the legislation so that victims of crime are given much more legal representation in the Court of Appeal as well.
i-95098c125e506365-257	Madam President, I would like Generally speaking, we have expanded the use of plaintiffs. So did we last year. We are now connecting plaintiffs at a much earlier stage, especially when it comes to sexual offences – from the time they report the crime. As far as the Court of Appeal is concerned, we should remember that the whole trial, as it did 15 to 20 years ago, is not being reopened. Now the negotiations are going to simply sit and watch pictures from the court proceedings. This means that witnesses and plaintiffs are very rarely brought into the interrogation situation. And if this were to be done, the new rule of law would also provide an opportunity to connect with a plaintiff in this perspective. Of course, we will have to evaluate the legislation and see how it works, but I would say that there has not been a major deterioration in the quality of the victims in this regard.
i-95098c125e506365-260	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Justice, for your answer. I had completely the same experience as the Minister of Justice when I read the bill. I believe that all parties in the Swedish Parliament had, because no one has exercised on the proposal. When you talk to the prosecutors, it's a completely different picture they show. They feel that the victim of crime is much greater than you and I think is in the courtroom of the Court of Appeal and that the assistants who are being asked for are being conveyed far too little. It needs to be addressed.
i-95098c125e506365-262	Madam President, I would like It is also possible, within the framework of the current rules, to appoint plaintiffs in cases such as these. Of course, I will be happy to ask myself for more after hearing this question to see if this is to be filled up. But the picture I have is that this has so far been used on very few occasions. And when you do, you can hook up the plaintiffs.
i-95098c125e506365-265	Madam President, I would like Democracy, Arkimedes principle, Pythagoras Pythagoras, Merkurius, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, castor and Pollux, Pleiades, the seven sisters and veni, Vidi, Vici. Even you, my Brutus, do not upset my circles, the Acropolis, the Colosseum, the Spartan, the Platonic, the Oedipus complex and the Trojan horse – all of this is incomprehensible without a hint of knowledge of antiquity. Our entire Western culture is based on the legacy of ancient times. We understand the present through history. But then one must have knowledge of history, and not only of the last decades, but also of the major features of world history. The Swedish National Agency for Education's proposal for new hourly plans has asked the question at its head. Madam President, I would like My question to the Minister for Education is what she is prepared to do to prevent the next generation from losing the roots of our civilization.
i-95098c125e506365-268	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by correcting a slight misunderstanding in Gudrun Brunegård's question. The school board's proposal hasn't arrived yet. The Swedish National Agency for Education has produced a draft that has been sent out for a referral. This referral has been addressed to the public, but above all to Sweden's teachers and Sweden's history teacher. This does not mean new hourly plans, but the hourly plan previously laid down still applies. It is about the Swedish National Agency for Education having made a different distribution in terms of which subjects should be included in the so-called central content. I have the greatest respect for Sweden's teachers. The respect is so great that I want to wait until I hear what the teachers themselves say when the Swedish National Agency for Education makes a proposal about their work tools. The teachers' opinions will weigh heavily with me, and when the Swedish National Board of Education's proposals eventually come to the Ministry, it is the government that will make decisions on this.
i-95098c125e506365-271	Madam President, I would like Does the Minister of Education not share the view expressed by so many over the past week? It is believed that knowledge of historical events helps us to understand what is happening today. Can the government establish a syllabus, when it's time, according to which it seems to have been a vacuum towards our world right up to the 16th century? How, then, can you understand the references to antiquity found in, for example, art, literature and drama?
i-95098c125e506365-273	Madam President, I would like As I tried to explain, there is still no proposal from the National Board of Education. When the Swedish National Agency for Education's proposal comes, it should be based on the comments that have been received from Sweden's teachers. The Swedish National Board of Education then sends its proposal to the government, and I can assure Gudrun Brunegård and everyone else who listens that I will take a great responsibility for ensuring that the curricula that will eventually be established by the government will meet the requirements that we have the right to set at Swedish school. I say this both as Minister of Education, as a historical nerd and as a great admirer of Sweden's teachers.
i-95098c125e506365-277	Madam President, I would like I was going to lift the climate aid and the aid. Aid was an issue that made me politically involved, and I think it is very important to many people. It is a question of right and wrong and of justice. When it comes to the climate, the West, not least Europe, has a historic debt. We have built up our wealth by using fossil fuels since the mid 1800s. This is an important issue which is also clearly discussed in the Paris Agreement. There are also, fortunately, agreements that we should get to this historic unequal divide. This is to be done through climate aid, where we in Sweden are already a role model, and it is also about the UN's green climate fund. I would like to hear from the Minister for Development about Sweden's work at the moment with the Climate Fund and climate aid and how we can develop it in the future.
i-95098c125e506365-280	Madam President, I would like I come directly from the UN and New York and from the high-level meetings that have been held there on, among other things, the climate issue. I attended meetings with the world's island nations, where this issue is simply a matter of life and death. For many others, it is a question of perhaps having to move large parts of the population if the development becomes as we fear. International climate action is extremely important. We can't manage the changes just through efforts in Sweden, and therefore the Swedish government is investing a lot today in climate work internationally. We have increased the share each year in recent years so that in 2018 we were up to over 6 billion of aid going to the international climate funds and bilaterally. We are continuing to increase, and we have also recently shown that we have increased the effort of the Green Climate Fund from 4 billion to 8 billion over the next three years. Sweden is making great efforts and will do even more in the coming years.
i-95098c125e506365-284	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I think it is incredibly important that we raise this issue; it is one of the most important issues we have in our near future and also in the long term. I would also like answers on how we can change this further in the future. Can a larger part of the aid budget go precisely to climate aid? We are now seeing how we have record temperatures around the world, and we may need to accelerate even more than we have done so far.
i-95098c125e506365-286	Madam President, I would like My position is that we must continue to increase this in the coming years. That is why I am concerned that there are parties in Parliament that signal strong cuts in aid and climate action both internationally and nationally. Then there is the risk that we completely lose the opportunity to be a leader where others feel they have to follow. We must try to keep our eyes up, to follow the important changes in the world and to work for a better world. Then the climate issue is a crucial issue.
i-95098c125e506365-289	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin. Last week the news reached us that wolves were born in Östergötland for the first time in over a hundred years. Many rejoice, but others scratch their heads and wonder how it will go. I have received signals that there have already been three attacks on domestic animals from this group of wolves, and in such a situation protection hunting on the wolf is usually granted. The problem is that farmers currently do not dare to apply for protection hunting because they are afraid of activists. Does the Minister still think that hunting for protection is the best way to deal with wolves? After all, we no longer grant a hunting license to wolf in Sweden.
i-95098c125e506365-293	Madam President, I would like I thank John Widegren for the question. First of all, Sweden, like other EU countries, has an obligation to comply with the EU's directive on species and habitats. There the wolf is one of the species we need to preserve, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has concluded that a population of at least 300 wolves is a favourable conservation status. The latest inventory concluded that the population is 300 wolves, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has therefore decided not to allow the hunting of wolves next year. However, this does not affect the possibility for county administrative boards to decide on a protection hunt to prevent, for example, serious damage to domestic animals.
i-95098c125e506365-296	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Yes, protective hunting is what should be used in this situation if there are too many problems with the wolves. However, it becomes problematic when people do not dare to apply for protection hunts because of activists who are threatening – activists whom one of the Minister's fellow parties unfortunately demonstrated along with in Sergel's square a couple of weeks ago. This concerns me because when we no longer have a licence hunt, the protection hunt is what we can use. Then it becomes a huge worry when people do not even dare to apply for protection hunting.
i-95098c125e506365-299	Madam President, I would like When there are proper and formal reasons for deciding on a protection hunt, it is of course the county boards' opportunity and responsibility to do so. In addition, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Government and Parliament are responsible for ensuring that we have a favourable conservation status. Of course, threats of violence or other obstacles to the judicial system are in no way acceptable.
i-95098c125e506365-302	Madam President, I would like From our youth federation there have been numerous reports that students feel implicitly compelled to participate in climate demonstrations and thus be deprived of teaching. This has been done with the implicit or explicit consent of the school management. In my opinion, any absence should be null and void if you take part in demonstrations like this. Moreover, these demonstrations have been clearly politically coloured. For example, there have been tables of Communist literature at these demonstrations. I believe that this is contrary to what is in the form of government about the impartiality of the institutions.
i-95098c125e506365-305	It is also contrary to schooling to be deprived of teaching, no matter how urgent matters are attracted to the city. I want to know what Minister Ekström thinks about this.
i-95098c125e506365-306	Madam President, I would like Together with young people all over the world, Sweden's young people have shown a fantastic commitment to the climate issue. What makes these manifestations, to which Robert Stenkvist alludes, so wonderful is that it is a bottom movement. Young people and children go out into streets and squares and tell us adults that we should listen to scientists. I have the greatest confidence in Sweden's teachers and principals, and to me it is quite clear that it is teachers and principals who decide how the school day should take place. It is the principal and teacher who decides if a student can participate in this type of manifestation. If this is done within the framework of school work, it must of course have a connection to the curriculum and curriculum. The student who is deprived without permission is of course wrong and is allowed to take the cons e kvenser that it entails. This may include, for example, the cancellation of study grants.
i-95098c125e506365-309	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. Recently, we have been able to follow reports in the media that prison sentences for drug offences have been considerably reduced in recent years. The reduction came after the Supreme Court reduced the penalty in a number of judgments. The signals from those in the police working in this area are that the change in practice has led to an increase in both the trade and consumption of drugs. Drugs are a major part of gang crime, and combating gang crime is one of the most important security-building tasks that the rule of law has to deal with. In yesterday's news broadcasts, we heard that the Minister of Justice said that he had commissioned officials to look into the matter more closely. We Christian Democrats see a need to change the law urgently so that we return to a situation where drug offences lead to severe penalties.
i-95098c125e506365-314	Madam President, I would like It is true that the reductions took place. They were quite in the middle of the Alliance's time. In 2011, the first judgments in the Supreme Court were passed, which turned down the assessments of drug offences. Or rather, in the future we would not only look at the amount of drugs, but broaden the perspective of the role of the perpetrator in, for example, trade and thus see it in a larger whole. The Christian Democrats were not running a major campaign to restore practice during the time they were in government. A little later, however, an investigation was set up that looked at the drug penalty and made progress with tightening up the most serious crimes in particular. We did so early in our term of office. We are prepared to review further tightening up, particularly as regards the transfer of drugs. I have asked my officials to look at this in an investigation directive. And that will of course happen as soon as possible.
i-95098c125e506365-317	Madam President, I would like The news of the last few days is that the explosion charge was detonated – severe injuries.Six people robbed three young men. What's so special about this? Actually nothing, because this is more or less everyday crime in Sweden that happens day after day. The government has completely failed to fight serious crime, and the development is appalling. Despite this, the government wants to continue to give senior citizens a penalty discount. We want to make a marginal adjustment for repeated serious crime, which means that an adult can rob after robbery and still get a penalty discount. We Moderates are on the side of the victims, but the government doesn't seem to. Why do you want to give a penalty discount to a robber after a robbery?
i-95098c125e506365-321	Madam President, I would like Actually, we don't want that. Unfortunately, the Moderates dropped out of the negotiations—you didn't want to negotiate on this, Ellen Juntti. It would have been good if you'd done it, but you wouldn't. After you dropped out of the negotiations, we went forward and presented a 34-point programme. This programme addresses, among other things, the issue of penalty reduction in the case of multiple crime. We say that the penalty should be removed in the case of serious and repeated crimes, and we will stand for that. I have just set our officials in motion to draw up such a directive so that we can get on with it. But, as I said, it was a pity, Madam President, that we could not get that broad consensus on the great programme that we are now taking forward. After this, when I have visited the police and prosecutors around the country, all these proposals have been welcomed, but at the same time it has been regretted that the Moderates dropped out and that we did not get the broad support that we should have had.
i-95098c125e506365-326	Madam President, I would like Is grade A an A regardless of which school the student attends? Can we trust that the grades are linked to what the students have actually learned? No, we cannot, says the Swedish National Agency for Education and states in a new report that the deviation in many schools is unreasonable and that it is obvious that the final grades do not match what the students can. There are also research reports that claim that free schools as a group are more generous in their rating. This is not good. When the student is seen as a customer, there is always the suspicion that schools as a competitive means are driven to put higher ratings than what the knowledge corresponds to. Students from free schools also fare worse at the university, according to the Swedish National Agency for Education's surveys.
i-95098c125e506365-330	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Nilsson, for raising a problem that is really big here. Grades should be fair. Grades should show what knowledge a student has with him or her, not which school the student has attended or which parents he or she is born with. Unfortunately, it does not look like that today. Pia Nilsson mentioned a number of examples – perhaps the most striking is the report that shows that the independent schools give better grades than the municipal schools but that the pupils from the municipal schools do better when they then come to the university, despite lower grades. This is unfair to students who get circumcised in the queue, but it's also pretty unsyst for those students who come into later educations with a grade that shows more knowledge than they actually have. This is also bad for Sweden's competitiveness. The Government has now, within the framework of the January Agreement, given instructions for the Grading Investigation to come up with measures to put an end to the grading inflation. It is a very good directive, which I am grateful that we have been able to produce together with the Centre Party and the Liberals. Grades should be fair.
i-95098c125e506365-335	Madam President, I would like Last year, greenhouse gas emissions increased by 2 per cent in Sweden. This is the first time emissions have increased since 2010. We Moderates invest 3 million more than the government in the climate. We prioritise effective measures, such as charging infrastructure, where we invest six times more than the government. The government prioritises measures that do not provide very large reductions in emissions. They invest 2 billion in the climate life with, among other things, vehicle simulators and bicycle garages. The government's big investment is therefore on the Climate Klimatklivet and on a doubling of this, despite the fact that the Institute of Economics and the Swedish National Audit Office have criticised it for being inefficient. What effective measures does the Minister intend to take to reduce greenhouse gases?
i-95098c125e506365-339	Madam President, I would like I thank Marléne Lund Kopparklint for giving me the opportunity to say a few words about the shadow budget of the Moderates, which they have just presented. You in the Moderates lower the tax on petrol and diesel by 7 billion. This tax is the single most effective instrument that the Economic Institute and others point to in order to reduce emissions. Here you make it cheaper. You're subsidising the fossil industry. You are also taking EUR 5 billion from aid and moving over EUR 2 billion to the environment and climate budget. This is very unserious policy. As the Minister for Development has already said, we have EUR 6 billion for climate aid under Category 7. You take 2 billion and move them to the area of environmental and climate spending, and then you call it an effort while cutting back on aid to the poorest. It is not an effective climate policy.
i-95098c125e506365-343	Madam President, I would like I would like to put an urgent question to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. The issue concerns those immigrants who do not have Swedish citizenship and who have been sentenced to prison for crimes in Sweden. If these conditions are met, there are conditions for prosecutors to bring an expulsion order to the Court of Justice for a shorter or longer period of time or even for lifelong expulsion. But when you go in and look at what this looks like in reality, you see that it is practiced very differently. At least there is a difference between courts and prosecutors in how they apply this in practice. In my opinion, it should be clear that you are not welcome in Sweden if you come here and commit crimes. Then you have to go home, and there is a very important signal value in this. My question to the Government is therefore: Does the Government intend to tighten up the wording on how this is to be applied so that more criminals can be expelled and so that a more similar assessment is obtained throughout Sweden?
i-95098c125e506365-348	Madam President, I would like The short answer to the question is yes. In the January agreement, negotiated by the government parties, the Centre Party and the Liberals, there is a point about reviewing the expulsion rules. This concerns, among other things, the question of connection, i.e. where the threshold should be for connection to Sweden. I share the view that the main rule must be that anyone who commits serious crimes in Sweden and who is not a Swedish citizen should be expelled. We will review both the issue of connection and a couple of other legislative issues in this regard. Then it is another thing to make sure that it really works, that is, to ensure that we have agreements with the countries concerned so that we can carry out the expulsions. In this respect, we work bilaterally with each country.
i-95098c125e506365-352	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin, about income, about extreme weather costs and capital flows. The climate threat is now becoming clear to all of us. My experience is that we are still very abstract when we talk about percentages, dates and degrees Celsius. I think we need to be even more concrete. Then I think of the capitalist system as a problem and part of the solution. My question is: what is the Minister's view of climate action and the concrete state of play in relation to the potential of green and sustainable financial markets in the EU? And what is the potential for the Greater Stockholm region as the Nordic financial centre and job creators?
i-95098c125e506365-355	Madam President, I would like I thank Markus Selin for raising an important issue. It is clear that capital flows, insurance companies and investors are very important factors in making a green transition faster and more favourable. In New York, where I was just at the climate summit, was presented an alliance of very large capital owners, investors and insurance companies, which now commits to divest by 2050 and to work with the companies in which they invest. This will be a very powerful engine. Sweden has, of course, put on a leadership shirt on the sustainable financial market and, together with France, for example, pushed the EU to develop sustainability rules for the financial market. This will definitely benefit both Sweden and the Stockholm region, as we are already well ahead. We have already developed sustainability criteria for the financial market, and this drives business.
i-95098c125e506365-360	Madam President, I would like Beach erosion is an escalating problem for Sweden's beaches, especially in Skåne. With rising sea levels and capricious weather, the beaches erode and risk taking with them great values in the case. Development must be halted, and a number of measures are needed. The Moderates are therefore investing SEK 30 million in counteracting the beach erosion, compared with the government's 2.4 million. At present, SGI has a coordinating responsibility for the work of nine different authorities against erosion. The Moderates want to see an authority assume overall responsibility but also financial responsibility. Costs between property owners, municipalities and states must be balanced, the long processes shortened and the number of bodies involved reduced. Given that the Moderates invest ten times more than the government to counteract the beach erosion, my question to Isabella Lövin is: What does the government, in fact, do to counteract the erosion of Skåne's beaches in particular?
i-95098c125e506365-363	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Louise Meijer, for an issue that is once again linked to our generation's absolute greatest challenge, namely the climate crisis. In addition to making historically large investments in the budget to reduce emissions, both here in Sweden and globally, this government has for the first time implemented a climate adaptation strategy. We have also for the first time allocated money to direct efforts for example for safety at Göta River, which is related to higher levels in Göta River. When it comes to beach erosion, we have increased funding for climate adaptation within several grants, but also for the State Geotechnical Institute, which has a coordinating responsibility for this. This is a hugely important issue that the government takes very seriously. A New Humanitarian Protection Basis
i-95098c125e506365-367	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Justice and Migration. The issue of migration, Madam President, is not just a matter of Sweden, but of the whole world. In our neighbourhood, armed conflicts are still ongoing, forcing millions of people to leave their homes. 2015 was the year when Europe and Sweden witnessed people crossing seas and mountains to get to safety. The outside world must make concerted efforts to resolve these conflicts so that people are not forced to leave their homes. Madam President, I would like Paragraph 67 of the January Agreement states that the parties agree to pursue a new humanitarian protection base, which could help alleviate the suffering of some people, such as seriously ill people. My question to Minister for Migration Morgan Johansson is: how is the work on developing a new humanitarian protection base, and what regulations does the Minister think will apply?
i-95098c125e506365-371	Madam President, I would like To start with the background, it is that Sweden has taken a very large responsibility for the refugee situation. Only since 2011 when the war in Syria broke out have we provided protection for 175 000 Syrians – men, women and children who would otherwise have risked dying, simply, in the war. I am basically very proud that Sweden could take such a great responsibility. Then we were in 2015 and 2016 in a situation where we had to make sure that more countries took responsibility. We had to turn the politics around. Now we have significantly lower numbers. We are on the lowest reception in 13 years, and it continues to be very low. However, now that this temporary law is due to expire in two years' time, we must ensure that we have long-term sustainable legislation that is broadly based. That is what this committee should look at. Among other things, we are looking at the issue of humanitarian protection. I cannot say exactly what those rules should look like today, but I think there are strong reasons to ensure that there is a system in which, for example, seriously ill people should exceptionally be able to stay on that basis too.
i-95098c125e506365-374	Madam President, I would like Around 220 000 cubic metres of litter end up in the North Sea every year. Of this, approximately 8 000 cubic metres land on the Swedish west coast. The majority of the litter does not come from Sweden but from our neighbouring countries around the North Sea, but the currents mean that the debris is directed towards Sweden. The Bohuslän archipelago works in practice as a filter to capture the debris. It is a global environmental problem with local consequences. One country that has received criticism is the United Kingdom, among other things for open landfills and stormwater systems that do not efficiently capture the debris. Much of the work to reduce litter in the North Sea has taken place within the EU framework. My question to Minister for the Environment and Climate Change Isabella Lövin is what the government's strategy is for continued cooperation with the UK on these issues after a British withdrawal from the Union.
i-95098c125e506365-377	Madam President, I would like I thank David Josefsson for highlighting a very important fact, namely that much of the debris that lands on the Swedish west coast does not come from Sweden, either from land or from ships in Swedish waters, but comes with the ocean currents. This is why Sweden is so focused on global issues, including maritime issues, plastic litter and plastic pollution. In the European Union, we have produced a directive on the reduction of plastic use, the single-use plastic directive, in record time. We are working very focused both on reducing the actual use of plastics and on ensuring that we get a circular economy and get the plastic back in the cycle. When – or if – we should say – Britain leaves the Union, we must of course take an initiative to work with the UK on this.
i-95098c125e506365-380	Madam President, I would like Many municipalities are having a tough financial situation, and it looks like they are going to get even tougher. The school is the largest expenditure item in all municipalities. In June, the Swedish National Agency for Education decided that several municipalities should pay back the so-called equivalence grant because they have not met the criteria. Among other things, SKL has made extensive criticism of the conditions, the twitchiness they cause the municipalities and the uncertainty about budgeting that is the consequence. In addition, the Swedish National Agency for Education points out that the conditions do not even allow municipalities with the greatest need to apply for the grant. The Minister for Education has announced that the conditions should be reviewed, but given the situation in the municipalities and the needs of the school, this seems urgent. My question is: when will the government change the regulatory framework for the equivalence grant?
i-95098c125e506365-382	Madam President, I would like The Government has in this year's budget proposal a proposal for an increased equivalence grant. We are increasing to 4.9 billion next year and 6.2 billion years thereafter. The beauty of the crow song is that this equivalence premium is exactly the same. We are giving more money to those schools where the needs are greatest. In addition, we are making the equivalence grant a great deal. We gather a number of state grants and provide more opportunities for municipalities to gather energy. The point of the equivalence grant is that it should go to the schools where the needs are greatest. We have taken note of reports from both the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish Agency for Health and Safety at Work, which voice concern that the money will actually come out in the classrooms, partly for the reasons stated by Maria Stockhaus. During the autumn, the Government will review the cost condition of the equivalence grant with the aim of making the money go to the classrooms where it is most needed.
i-95098c125e506365-385	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. My question is about government control of the construction industry and also the Swedish labour market. There have been reports in the media of widespread cheating in, for example, the construction industry. It is about deficiencies in human resources, about a large number of people working illegally in Sweden and about shortcomings in the working environment, which have also led to a large number of fatal accidents. This is reprehensible.
i-95098c125e506365-388	Madam President, I would like The short answer is that we are increasing controls. We've done it pretty well just in the last few years. Our foundation is that there must be order and order in the Swedish labour market. We cannot accept that we have rogue companies that cheat and fiddle and have illegal labor that they exploit and let work for 30 kronor an hour and live in a basement. They have a completely poor working situation which, for example, can lead to very serious accidents, as we have seen. Now we have a special measure in place for a few years: a joint agency control. The police, the Finnish Immigration Service, the Swedish Work Environment Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency carry out checks at the workplace. They did so only last week when they controlled 100 construction companies, and immediately 25 of the workplaces were shut down because they did not meet the health and safety requirements. We will continue to do this, and we will continue to increase the number of such workplace controls to clean up this industry.
