i-1e73222b791d9e44-2	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me how long I think it will take before the regulations for investments are brought into line with the Paris Agreement of 2015, what I intend to do in order for Sweden to be a model and take the lead in this matter, for example by changing the regulatory framework already now, what pressure has been put on us to prioritise the changes in the regulatory framework within the OECD and whether I intend to work towards an investigation of a loan guarantee, as it has been shown that the evidence has been insufficient. The State Export Credit Scheme is governed by an OECD agreement often referred to as the Consensus Agreement. This agreement is incorporated into EU law and thus binding on Sweden and other EU countries. The agreement includes a number of sectoral agreements, one of which contains limitations for OECD countries to issue export credits to coal power plants. The OECD has also adopted recommendations on common approaches to assess social and environmental risks associated with export credits for projects in sensitive sectors such as power generation. In Sweden, the Export Credit Board and AB Svensk Exportkredit are required to comply with this agreement and this recommendation in their export credit business. The Export Credit Board has clarified its position by introducing more far-reaching restrictions on export credits to coal-fired power plants than required by the OECD Sector Agreements. Sweden has supported the development of both of these regulations. Sweden is regarded by many as a leading environmental country, and we are working to ensure that international regulations take greater account of environmental and climate aspects. We see added value in the fact that all OECD countries follow the same rules, partly because the climate benefits will be greater and partly because competition neutrality between business conditions in different OECD countries will then be maintained. Sweden is therefore pushing ahead in international fora for greater sustainability in trade contexts. It would be unfortunate if we allowed other countries that are less advanced in the climate to gain competitive advantages at the expense of our Swedish companies. It would be desirable for countries outside the OECD to join these restrictions too, but unfortunately we do not see such signs. Financing has become an increasingly important competitive factor in international trade, especially in the case of deliveries to major projects such as energy and infrastructure. China is today the largest export nation in the world and supports its exports with financial solutions that are completely outside the OECD regulatory framework. J ag underlines that the Export Credit Board is an independent authority that makes its own decisions on export credits for individual transactions. As a minister, therefore, I have neither the right nor the opportunity to influence their position on business. The government's entry is that the Export Credit Scheme will contribute to meeting the objectives of the Paris Agreement. We want to pursue a policy that means that Sweden as an international player strategically and purposefully contributes actively to real global transformation. The upcoming updated new export and investment strategy will be an important tool to continue promoting Swedish exports and sustainable development in this regard.
i-1e73222b791d9e44-10	Madam President, I would like I would have liked us to have received some more concrete answers from Minister Hallberg. We have, from the Left Party's side, repeatedly highlighted how several activities under government responsibility miss climate targets, not because the opportunity does not exist, but because the government is not willing to take the leadership shirt fully in what we need: a green transition. If we are to be able to meet Sweden's climate targets, the governance of this must be strengthened, that is, the government must be clearer with requirements and priorities. This has been pointed out several times by organisations, researchers and even authorities. While it is positive that Sweden is pushing more countries to take responsibility, which of course is a work that needs to be done continuously, I see that the drive for this is to protect our companies from competition from companies that do not have the same environmental and climate requirements. But, Madam Minister, why can't our companies' competitive advantages actually be environmental and climate aspects? Let the others follow it instead! This is the future, after all. Time and again, we see that Sweden does not really impose the requirements needed for climate, environment and human rights when it comes to investments or activities outside our borders. But what we invest outside our borders will affect us too. It is for this reason that the objectives are global. Having binding agreements is a good thing, but it does not lock us up when it comes to being able to raise us more on this issue. The Government mentions limitations on export credits to coal power plants, and that is a good thing. But last year EKN guaranteed coal mining operations for SEK 347 million, and if you look at the next few years you can see that the guarantees have increased. This rhymes badly with the desire to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country.
i-1e73222b791d9e44-14	Madam President, I would like That's it. The government has adopted the goal of Sweden being a fossil-free society in 2045. With regard specifically to the authority we have now discussed, the Export Credit Board, the government's view is that through the granting of guarantees and through dialogue and cooperation with export companies, banks and other authorities, we can contribute to the realisation of the UN's global sustainable development goals and the Paris Agreement. It is a platform for dialogue that we get by getting companies in and making demands on them. Today, EKN has completely discontinued export credit guarantees for coal power plants or new industrial projects involving coal power plants. There are some exceptions, and they are the least developed and poorest countries. There is an exception, but EKN has a much stricter regulatory framework today than before, for precisely the reason we are now discussing. The Swedish Export Credit Scheme is governed by the OECD agreement mentioned. It has been transposed into EU law and is thus binding on all EU countries. The aim of the agreement is to promote the sound use of government export financing. And that is exactly the case: we want to create a level playing field for exporters and financiers, based on the quality of exports. But quality is also, of course, a matter of environmental concern. This is extremely important and central, and I fully support it. The OECD has adopted sectoral agreements and has taken steps to reduce export credit to investments with a negative climate effect. We in Sweden are at the forefront of our business sector, and we have technological solutions that are at the forefront of sustainability. I see that Swedish exports can certainly contribute to the global transformation and to the implementation of the Paris Agreement. We are a leader in Sweden in environmental technology, and we are an international player. We are known for and have a reputation for working purposefully on this global transition. I, Sweden and the government want to be a strong voice within the OECD to promote change within the OECD. It's extremely important. As a single country alone, we do not have much influence. We can do some things. We can definitely take the extra steps that we have now taken. We have our business community that has a conversion potential. But it is above all by influencing within the EU and within the OECD that we can make major changes. There we will be a strong voice, and I want to be a strong voice there. In Sweden, we also go ahead by having one of the least fossil-dependent energy mixes in the world. This is very important. This means that our industry has a smaller carbon footprint than many of its competitors. It would therefore be unfortunate if other countries, which are less advanced in the field of climate change, were to gain competitive advantages at the expense of our Swedish companies. We can really make a difference with our services, products and companies on the global stage, especially in the environmental field.
i-1e73222b791d9e44-22	Madam President, I would like I was surprised when the Government said in its reply that the Export Credit Board made its own decisions on export credits in individual transactions. For me, it was obvious that no one believes that any guarantee or export credit should be sanctioned by the state. It will be an untenable situation. However, it must be so clear in the directives that the government still gives to EKN, including through the regulation letter, that the climate targets are prioritised and that export credits as a minimum should not go to fossil activities. I also interpret that the Government's lack of the right to influence positions in EKN's affairs is an answer to the question of investigation. At the same time, however, the government has a responsibility to actually investigate when reports on an area such as the Jamal Peninsula show that these projects have an enormous climate and environmental impact and that they restrict indigenous peoples' rights on the ground. This is not news. The development in Siberia has been going on for a long time. There are many reports on the consequences of this. Something is obviously wrong when reports clearly show this. But the answer from EKN is still to provide guarantees. By not investigating or questioning, the government is doing companies a disservice. Instead of encouraging and leading to transition, companies are locked into continuing their fossil activities or investing in fossil activities abroad. Therefore, no export credits should be allocated to investments in fossil fuel activities. It is the only way to achieve the climate goals. Dialogue and cooperation are often mentioned when it comes to business work abroad and its relations with them. But I believe that the climate issue requires much more action. It calls for certain binding decisions to be taken on common issues. There I think we would strengthen our companies by doing so. That's the road we're going to. We as a country are very far ahead, as the Government mentioned, but we are not primarily on these issues. I would like to see us focus on these issues.
i-1e73222b791d9e44-27	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that as a minister, I cannot influence individual affairs. It's obvious to both of us and to everyone. Of course, I think it is important to have a dialogue with our authorities in these areas. Of course I do. I also see that EKN as an authority has taken a step forward. They have developed a new environmental policy just recently. That is exactly how we can regulate and have a dialogue with our authorities. I also see, of course, that this is an ongoing work. I would like to return to the fact that export credits are important for our Swedish companies to win business in increasingly fierce international competition. When most of a company's production is exported, a Swedish export credit system will be crucial in order to be able to compete on the same terms in other countries. If such a company decides instead to move its production beyond Sweden's borders, both Swedish innovation and Swedish jobs will be lost. Smaller municipalities outside the metropolitan regions, where production takes place, are at risk of being particularly affected. This does not mean that we should give up our environmental requirements. This must be balanced; there are no other ways to go. I will come back to the fact that this is a long-term process. It is not just a question of making the OECD acquis clearer in this area. We must try to get non-OECD countries to adhere to the limitations that we place on our export credits. Unfortunately, it is slow, and we do not see such signs. But we cannot give up there, either on the part of the OECD or on the part of Sweden. We also know that funding is becoming an increasingly important part of competition in international trade, especially in the case of deliveries to major projects such as energy and infrastructure. An increasing share of government trade funding in the world is currently outside the OECD rules, which is very unfortunate not least because countries that do not belong to the OECD account for a large part of these flows. This makes Swedish companies' sustainable solutions increasingly competitive. So this is a difficult situation, and we are doing everything we can to influence it. Of course, we should set an example. I'm totally behind that. But we have the problem that projects that are not supported by Swedish export credits can still be implemented with suppliers from other countries, with the risk that the result will be worse and that the Paris Agreement will be more difficult to reach. This is therefore always a balancing process, as we are both aware. We must highlight this every time we talk about it, without sacrificing our demands in terms of environmental considerations. EKN follows very closely the OECD guidelines. The OECD countries are working together on common guidelines for the environment and social considerations. There we shall be a very strong voice. We're going to push forward. I personally will do everything I can to influence the OECD into even stricter guidelines. There we negotiate through the EU to achieve this objective. We would have liked greater consideration to be given to environmental and climate aspects through the EU and the OECD. But we see added value in the fact that all OECD countries follow the same rules.
i-1e73222b791d9e44-37	Madam President, I would like In the end, we can sum up that Sweden has contributed to China and Russia being able to extract gas from a huge gas plant in the Arctic. Emissions are estimated at 5.3 million tonnes of CO2 each year. In addition, the extraction takes place on the tundra, where methane gas is likely to be released when the tundra melts. It is something that will affect us all. The indigenous peoples are allowed to shrink grazing areas and the reindeer industry must be reduced. Furthermore, the activities of oil and gas companies pose a threat to their lives and health. If we consider that world production and activities should nevertheless move towards sustainable production, we should perhaps support those companies that actually carry out production and make investments that lead to sustainable solutions and help those companies that in this case create gas turbines for gas extraction in Siberia to look for other areas where they can operate and influence. Although the government in writing believes that export credit schemes should meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement, today we see that this will not happen. We do not have much time and I do not see the government confirming the urgency of this by not being clear enough. As I said, clarity is something that permeates the demands of organisations, researchers and authorities.
i-1e73222b791d9e44-41	Madam President, I would like I want to be very clear in this area: It is extremely important that we are a role model and a strong voice when it comes to sustainability in combination with business. When it comes to sustainability assessment, EKN, if we talk about it as an important tool for international business, especially taking into account sustainability risks at global level and in the buyer country. In balancing business decisions, positive aspects for Swedish exports should absolutely be taken into account, but sustainable development must be taken into account. The ability to do business can never compensate for an unacceptable impact on climate, environment and people in buyer countries. I fully support this, and I want to be that voice both in the EU and in the OECD and, of course, as the responsible Minister of State. I really want to confirm that. Until stricter regulations come in place, we look at how Sweden and Swedish companies should handle this. This is done in dialogue with civil society in particular, which is a very important partner of ours in this and which has deep knowledge in this area, and I want to see how we in that dialogue can take on a mantle to be even clearer in this area. Then it is of course crucial that we can continue to do business globally where we contribute technology for a transition – a sustainablely attractive technology and energy efficiency, because it is very important to combine the two – and also that we can enable countries that are behind us in terms of environmental considerations to build public transport, for example, in order to bring in Swedish sustainable, energy-efficient solutions. That is therefore my aim, and as I said, I want to be a very strong voice in favour of it.
