i-f07c96955e512bd4-4	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked Minister Anders Ygeman if he believes that the government as owner can extend the lifetime and stop the early decommissioning of Ringhals reactors and how he sees planning for new and efficient nuclear power in Ringhals. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Riksdag has decided that Vattenfall AB, which owns Ringhals, will conduct commercial energy operations so that the company is one of the companies that leads the development towards environmentally sustainable energy production. The companies with state ownership are subject to the Swedish Companies Act, and it is the Board of Directors who is responsible for how the company is organized and managed according to the company's best interests. The Board of Directors of Vattenfall AB has decided that Ringhals Reactors 1 and 2 will be decommissioned based on a commercial assessment. This assessment is still valid, even after a shorter period of higher electricity prices.
i-f07c96955e512bd4-7	Madam President, I would like A secure and secure energy supply is an important engine in our economy and crucial to our future well-being. Swedish companies and consumers should be able to rely on a stable and reliable electricity supply. Long-term rules of the game and stable conditions in the electricity market are of great importance for Swedish jobs and competitiveness. Having said that, the goal should be clear to the Swedish parliament and government: a stable and secure system of nuclear, hydro and solar energy, which at the same time minimises the import of energy. In this situation and with this target, the Swedish electricity market faces a minor shock in 2019 and 2020. Then Ringhals Reactors 1 and 2 are planned to cease generating electricity. It should be borne in mind that these two reactions last year produced about 8 per cent of Swedish electricity consumption. Ringhals also had a production record in 2018, for which we as Swedish consumers should be extremely grateful. This was at a time when, as a nation, we imported relatively much energy from Russia at the same time. Imports from Russia represented approximately two smaller nuclear reactors. This cannot be a desirable situation for Sweden. This demonstrates the problem that exists, and it will increase in scope when we close two reactors in Ringhals prematurely. The lack of energy will increase dramatically, increasing imports from other countries. It is now ten years since the ban on the construction of new nuclear power plants was abolished. Nevertheless, today we are closing down fully functioning reactors without a plan for the supply of energy. The Christian Democrats want to protect the nuclear power plants that exist. Nuclear power is an emission-free, delivery-proof and productive energy source. Sweden should not become dependent on importing dirty coal power. What we lose by closing two reactors at Ringhals is competence that we could well need in a longer perspective in Sweden. We lose a large part of today's workforce, which is about 1,300 people. We also lose the opportunity to deliver a stable and secure electricity that we are in great need of now and in the future. I believe that these reactors should be operated as long as possible and economically justifiable, and at the same time planning, projecting and replacing these two older reactors with new generation reactors. To do this, skills are needed that are in place, long-term and understanding of an alternative, because the ability to meet future energy needs is not between nuclear power and wind and sun, but between nuclear power and imported energy produced from fossil fuel. I note that, in its reply, the Government refers to the Companies Act and says that it is the Board of Directors that makes decisions on the companies' internal strategic decisions, which is certainly true. But as a big owner of a company, it is probably extremely rare to take the opportunity to influence the decisions. I would like to go as far as to say that it is unique if that is the case. I do not believe that Vattenfall's board is without the influence of its big owner in terms of the direction the company will work. I understand if the Government finds the issue uncomfortable and therefore refers to the Companies Act. But I can ask the question a little differently: how does the government intend to manage to deliver the electricity that Swedish households and companies need in the future, if the decommissioning of nuclear power continues blindly? How does the Swedish government intend to cope with the security of supply, given that the possibility of maintaining the robustness of the system disappears in connection with the decommissioning of nuclear power?
i-f07c96955e512bd4-17	Madam President, I would like A recent report from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, released a week ago, has compiled the roadmaps for fossil freedom and climate neutrality that a number of industries presented last year. The aim of the summary is to see how much electricity and bioenergy is needed further if the objectives of these roadmaps are to be achieved. The result of the report and the assessment for a fossil-free 2045 is that more electricity is needed, from current 140 up to 200 terawatt hours, and more biofuels, from today's 87 to 162 terawatt hours. Having a common planning framework for electricity is a prerequisite for the economy, society, electricity producers, electricity grids and others to be able to plan their activities effectively. Does the Government consider that a planning framework of 200 terawatt hours of electricity generation to 2045 is reasonable? The debate on nuclear energy almost always hears that it is too expensive and that it has no future. According to recent figures from Vattenfall, electricity from Forsmark last year cost 22.6 øre per kilowatt hour and electricity from Ringhals 22 öre. The price of electricity in the SE3, where the core price is, was last year 44 öre. Ringhals thus made a crown in profit for each crown electricity cost to produce. If the cost of allowances continues to be above EUR 20 per tonne, Ringhals and Forsmark will be very profitable in the future. If we add to this the lifetime of nuclear power, the experience of, among other things, the United States, which has nuclear reactors similar to those we have in Sweden, is that nuclear reactors have a life span of 80 years, perhaps even longer. If Sweden retains nuclear reactors by the 2060s instead of the 2040s, all new renewable energy can be used to eliminate fossil energy. Then waiting until the 2050s to build new reactors also gives us time to develop newer and cheaper reactors than the market currently offers. Today we have no idea how the impact challenge will be met without nuclear power. There are ideas, but none are tried. An additional advantage of extending the operating time is that the cost of the disposal becomes cheaper per kilowatt hour of electricity produced. Does the Minister agree that it is reasonable, as in the United States, to drive today's reactors to the 2060s instead of the 2040s that are planned today? Ringnecks 1 and 2 will now be scrapped after not even 40 years. These should run until at least the 2030s after which assessment can be made if they can be run for another 10 or 20 years. Can the Minister answer if Vattenfall has made an assessment to drive Ringhals 1 and 2 to the 2030s?
i-f07c96955e512bd4-28	Madam President, I would like This discussion becomes completely incomprehensible if you do not put it in a context, in a context. When I was appointed Minister for Energy during the last parliamentary term, I was asked to look at how we can create long-term conditions for the Swedish electricity supply. One way to do this was to approach Parliament's parties to see if we could agree on energy policy that lasts over time. I took on that task, and we set up an Energy Commission that included all the parties in Parliament. This happened during a troubled time with low energy prices in both Sweden and Europe, and it became particularly important when both Eon and Vattenfall, i.e. the owners of all Swedish nuclear reactors, announced in winter 2015/ 16 that if there were no changes in the conditions for nuclear power, they did not see that they could invest in the independent core cooling, which is an absolute requirement to be able to operate any nuclear power in Sweden after December 2020. This was true of all ten reactors that were then running in Sweden. We took the issue together, and the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Center Party reached a settlement, which in the summer of 2016 became the Energy Agreement. It covers production, transmission and market issues, yes, all that is our electricity system. It is of great benefit to our country. One of the many measures we took to ensure that sustainable electricity at competitive prices was always to make the situation for nuclear power much better than it was before. One measure, which not least the Christian Democrats pushed for, was to remove the so-called impact tax or the nuclear tax. Another measure was to redeploy the waste management framework so that it became more even over the years and to redo the investment framework so that it did not have to increase so much as if it had just invested in safe sovereign debt in a situation where there were no interest rates to be collected from sovereign debt. As a result, both Vattenfall and Uniper, who became owners of Oskarshamn after the division of Eon, decided to invest in independent core colds for the six reactors they thought could be profitable, namely Oskarshamn 3, Ringhals 3 and 4 and Forsmark 1 – 3. This was done on a purely market-based basis, because an important part of the deal was that nuclear power should operate on exactly the same terms as everything else. Removing the political struggle that has existed for 40 years is a good thing and a strength for our country. Can you run nuclear power in Sweden? Yes, it determines the owners entirely on the basis of market conditions, which we jointly improved during the last term of office. What can the government do at this point? The reason why I am referring to Vattenfall is that the Members know very well that the Riksdag has decided that Vattenfall should be conducted commercially and make business judgements. Larry Söder comes with a number of facts that don't add up. Since 2013, Sweden has been a structural electricity exporter; we export every year. Even after the closure of R 1 and 2, Sweden will continue to be an electric exporter. It's important to remember.
i-f07c96955e512bd4-38	Madam President, I would like I naturally agree with the Government that safety is extremely important, and the investments that need to be made in the reactors should be made. But maybe the decision was made before we changed the impact tax. The Government says in its reply that the assessment remains, but, as Camilla Brodin said in her speech, it actually works today to run nuclear power with profit. So I think you might have a slightly different picture today and be able to make other decisions. The government says the owners decide on a commercial basis. Yes, and the owners are, in this case, the state and the government, who wisely govern this. Therefore, it is important to know how the government sees the future. Reality will catch up with us whether we want it or not. Already today, we are missing business start-ups because we cannot guarantee energy supply, and the need will increase significantly in the future. Our focus should therefore be on managing this both now and in the future. Sun and wind are great, and we will build more and make sure to have much more of that kind of energy. But we will need energy also on a rainy, cold, cloudy or dark day. We also need energy to ensure that all the answers to the climate seem to be to use more energy in the form of electric cars, electric bicycles, electric aircraft, etc. So we will not use less energy in the future, but much more. The big question should therefore be how we manage to deliver this energy environmentally friendly and safe. I believe that nuclear power has a role to play in Sweden in the future as well, and I think that we should try to extend the time that Ringh als 1 and 2 can be operated and then replace them with other reactors. More and more reports indicate energy shortages and delivery problems. How we are going to solve this is something that should also make the government worried about the future. If we are to achieve security of supply, we have only two options: a secure and up-to-date nuclear energy or imports from other countries, which actually pollutes our environment. The Government refers to the commercial assessment made by the Board of Directors and that it still stands. Does this also apply if subsidies for other energy sources are removed? In terms of net cost, nuclear power is unbeatablely cost-effective. Can the government, in the form of large-scale owners, explain the new situation for Vattenfall, that is to say that nuclear power is needed today, tomorrow and in the future to cope with secure and environmentally friendly electricity? Is there a possibility that the government will show its desire for Ringhals to produce more energy in the future than it can do today, thereby stopping decommissioning and planning a future increase? I was pleased to see that Vattenfall seems to be working on a future picture where nuclear power is still needed in the future. This is how I interpret the collaboration and the initiative with Uppsala University to secure highly qualified competence well into the 2040s. In my opinion, the government, which is a major shareholder in Vattenfall, has tried to phase out nuclear power in all its ways in Sweden to date. As a Member of Parliament, should I interpret this as a reversal of the government and that it now supports the continuation of nuclear power and possible extension after 2040?
i-f07c96955e512bd4-49	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for some answers to the questions I asked earlier. The Minister talked about the energy agreement, of which we are both part, and I am pleased that we will continue to do so. It contains some scope for interpretation of the extension of nuclear power, but in the implementation group we agree that we should have 100% renewable energy plus nuclear energy. We haven't discussed that much more. We can compare the different types of energy, and I'll add a little bit to the picture, because we talk about nuclear energy most of all. V indkraft in Sweden, including everything, currently costs 40 – 50 öre. S olen ergi costs about double, but now we have the electricity certificates that make us have come quite far in the work. A tt close Ringhals 1 and 2 gives an increased cost of 18 – 28 öre, or from 22 öre up to 40 öre, if we count so. For 12 terawatts, which Ringhals 1 and 2 produce, it will be about 2 – 3 billion per year. You can also add the cost of reducing the power balance, d reducing the balance mass and more, plus the cost of installing independent hearth cooling, as the Minister mentioned earlier, which is a little less than 500 million per reactor. If we are to compare costs, I think it is good if we have this with us. With a total of nuclear power produced and produced, Sweden has had a record year. Many thanks to all those who have worked with this question at the nuclear power stations, at SKB and at the authorities! Does the Minister agree that the closure of Ringhals 1 and 2 will entail a cost search for electricity generation of 2 – 3 billion? Who should pay for this, if not the electricity customers?
i-f07c96955e512bd4-55	Madam President, I would like We are trying to get a political discussion here on an issue on which we basically agree. This Parliament has unanimously decided that Vattenfall will be industrious in business terms. The Government cannot depart from the parliamentary decision. It is not voluntary, but we follow them, of course. This means that Vattenfall makes its economic assessments. If a nuclear reactor in Sweden does not have independent core cooling after next year, then a nuclear reactor must not be operated further. This has been fully agreed between the industry and us in politics, because we want as safe nuclear power stations as possible. I understand that we agree on this. Something else that I find very strange is that you compare apples and pears. It is clear that in recent years new production and investment in old, already established production, which may even have been depreciated for a long time, are completely different things. If we look at new investments in nuclear energy, as countries such as Finland, France, the United Kingdom, the United States and others do, we can see that almost all projects have gone – over SEK 1 per kilowatt hour. The fine example began with a forecast cost of EUR 3.2 billion and is now in the order of EUR 9 billion. In France it is something similar. In the UK, Hitachi withdrew from a project and took costs of nearly 25 billion some time ago. In the United States, Westinghouse has gone bankrupt because they did not really manage to keep the costs of new projects down. With this, I would like to say nothing but that it is up to the market itself to decide. If someone wants to build new nuclear power in Sweden, it is possible according to the energy agreement we have made. At the end of 2020, nuclear power will continue to exist as part of the energy agreement. That's why we made the improvements if we did. There is a rather unsubstantial debate here, I think. What happens when Ringhals 1 and 2 closes? It is clear that Sweden will continue to be a net exporter of electricity. The Energy Agency expects us to continue exporting around 14–20 terawatt hours. The big challenge for us is the limitations on transmission that exist within the country and also between Sweden and other countries. Although this is part of the energy deal: that we step by step make improvements and solve problems one. One creates power problems the coldest winter days or winter weeks because of the fact that there is a lot of demand for electricity for heating purposes, especially in southern Sweden, where electric heating is common. Is it possible to solve this? Absolutely! How are we gonna do that? I think we should work exactly as we did in the last parliamentary term: together. We sit down ne d and continue to work with the tools we have to ensure that Swedish electricity customers, whether it is industry, households or for that matter the transport sector, is this becoming increasingly electrified, always have access to the electricity they need at competitive prices. Is it possible to do this? A Bsolutely! We have the best conditions. Is it done? Yes, in part, but certainly not all the way. It is therefore important that we continue to work together and solve the problems. Madam President, I would like The owner has decided on financial grounds that it is not possible to invest in Ringhals 1 and 2. It would have been necessary to do so considerably earlier. And no, Larry Söder, it's not true that the decision was made before the energy deal. B the end was for everyone when one knew what the conditions for nuclear power were. The decision thus came after knowing that the impact tax would be removed.
i-f07c96955e512bd4-64	Madam President, I would like What I've been trying to find out here is that nuclear power can deliver e l every day, which other forms of energy can't do. And we need e every day. It is cost-effective with nuclear energy, as Camilla Brodin pointed out in her speech. The lack of electricity means that we should see nuclear power as self-evident in the future. V i needs Ringhals 1 and 2 even for a while after 2019 – 2020 in order to expand nuclear power. I noted that the Government said that if anyone wants to build nuclear power in the future it is up to them and that it is the market that decides whether there are opportunities. K an Minister say a tt Vattenfall, although the government and the state are big owners, have the opportunity to plan and build new nuclear power in Sweden with the good memory of the government, and that it is only economic conditions that apply to Vattenfall's board, as the Government has pointed out a number of times here? Does this mean that Vattenfall, if they want to build new nuclear power in Sweden, has the opportunity to do so with the government's good memory? It would be interesting to know if that is the case. I thank the Minister for a good debate. J ag thinks these issues are important, also for Swedish companies. It was interesting having the Minister for Enterprise here to discuss them.
i-CGrk9KfhD6d6fsQSsTQWrP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Larry Söder! It is clear that it is important and important issues, and I am glad that we are working together. I think it will be much easier to redeploy the companies in question, not only during this and the next term of office, but for a long time to come. The cost of investment is so high that one or two terms of office are not satisfied. The most important thing for all of us is that we always see the electricity supply. It is true and good that more and more in our society will be electrified. We are well placed to be able to do this. We have a large electricity surplus today. We will continue to have that. V i has challenges when it comes to the power of the system, i.e. when it comes to the effect. These are possible to solve. It can't happen by itself, but it's possible. As far as the issue of Vattenfall is concerned, the answer is j a. In accordance with the decision of the Riksdag, the European Parliament must act in exactly the same way as others. If Parliament amends the decision, it is clear that the conditions change. Here I would like to point out that Vattenfall's management has repeatedly pointed out that the cost picture of new nuclear power is such that it is out of the question. This is based on the fact that almost all the projects in our neighbourhood in the world have run away with costs of hundreds of billions. It won't be justifiable. If there were to be a technical change, which can never be ruled out, would change in car d en again, but this is justified by the conditions we know about today. Then I would like to point something out. It sounds like it would be easy just to say that Ringhals 1 and 2 should continue, but fakum is that in that case you would need to t u mm on the safety requirements. I don't think any of us really want to do that. It would not be good for nuclear power, and that would not be good for Sweden.
