i-80023eee2165b2ed-0	Mr President, I would like to Last Saturday I met the EU finance ministers in Helsinki. What unites us, regardless of country or party, is that we are all working to secure jobs, growth and economic development for our citizens. As Europeans, we are all facing a slowdown in the world economy, the risk of Britain leaving the EU without agreements and the danger of trade conflicts. But at home we have finance ministers very different conditions. In the euro area, there are countries with large deficits and high indebtedness. Some see their room for manoeuvre limited by political instability. But here in Sweden we go into the slowdown with completely different conditions. The government has equipped Sweden. Government debt is at its lowest level since 1977, 300 000 more people are working compared to 2014, and during the last term of office the resources for welfare increased by SEK 35 billion. And in a complicated parliamentary situation, we have broad and constructive cooperation here in the Swedish Parliament that gives the ability to deal with the social problems in the long term. There is no shortage of problems to deal with. We will never accept that people are being pushed on the street, that pensioners who have worked a full working life and paid taxes still do not get enough money or that young people who feel bad do not get support and help on time. These social problems can only be solved by being a stronger society. With the budget bill that I am putting on Parliament's table today, we build society stronger by fighting crime, taking care of our elderly and employing more people in welfare. Mr President, I would like to Everyone who can work is going to work. It is the foundation of a strong society. Security of supply through own work gives both self-determination and the ability to control one's own life. Labour market and education policy must therefore be developed so that people acquire the knowledge required in the Swedish labour market. The knowledge boost is being expanded, the start-up support is being extended and more university places are being created for engineers, teachers and doctors. In the context of economic slowdown, it is particularly important to support those who are weakly linked to the labour market. Funds are therefore provided for additional services, introductory jobs and labour market training. In an international comparison, many foreign-born people work in Sweden, but at the same time the employment gap between foreign and domestic born is still large, especially among women. Following proposals from the social partners, start-up jobs will be introduced and the opportunity to learn the Swedish language will be improved. Swedish companies should be able to grow and create more jobs. We will be competing on the world market with export efforts throughout the country, and within the framework of the green tax shift, the deduction for research and development will be increased. One of Sweden's main advantages is our skilled and competent workforce. More people must therefore be given the opportunity to change and acquire new skills that are needed in the labour market. Let me, therefore, even now anticipate the criticism that will certainly come from the opposition today about the period of development. This is one of several opportunities to equip more people with training in the shortage jobs that exist – the postman who learns to drive the bus, the nurse who reads on to the assistant nurse and the warehouse worker who can instead become an electrician. The government has chosen the path. Sweden will compete with knowledge, not with lower wages.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-9	Mr President, I would like to It is thanks to Sweden's high employment rate that we build the prosperity that finances high-quality welfare for all. Sweden has world-class healthcare, but accessibility needs to be increased. In order to reduce queues, an improved queue billions are introduced. More young people who are struggling with mental illness will have increased resources, because queues in children's and young people's psychiatry need to be shortened. The growing nursing shortage will be met with career services and increased opportunities for paid further education. The fact that more Swedes are living longer and longer is a sign of strength for Sweden, but it also places demands on us politicians. Over the next few years, tens of thousands of employees will be employed in health care. The addition of the last few years to welfare continues at a steady pace, and five new welfare billions are being pushed to next year. Care for the elderly is given a special supplement in order for people with dementia to receive better care. We have a lot of resources in our well-being, and we must use those resources as smartly and efficiently as possible. Therefore, the Government will establish a Welfare Commission to, together with municipalities, county councils and relevant trade unions, find new and better ways of working in welfare as needs grow so that users will receive better care and staff reasonable working conditions. We take joint responsibility for our children when they are young and for our parents when they grow older. In large parts of the world and also Europe, this is seen as unpaid women's work, but in Sweden we create important jobs that employ hundreds of thousands of proud employees throughout the country. High quality healthcare, school and care – that's how we reduce inequality and make it possible for everyone to work. Mr President, I would like to The foundation of the strong society we put in school. The Swedish school must give all children equal opportunities regardless of who they are, where they live or what parents they have. To this end, state aid for equality in schools will be increased in autumn 2020 to reach the level proposed by the School Commission. The attractiveness of the teaching profession will be strengthened with an extended teacher's lift, more teaching assistants, a professional programme and increased pay supplements for first teachers in schools with difficult conditions. We also want to improve school governance and reduce the hassle by reducing targeted state subsidies, which is a step in a direction long demanded by smaller municipalities and principals. Mr President, I would like to Today, the government is proposing a higher guarantee pension and a higher ceiling in the housing supplement, which can improve the conditions for the 675 000 pensioners who are now receiving a strengthened basic level of protection. We're lowering taxes for 1 million older people. With this step we could have completely abolished the unjust higher tax on pensions, but unfortunately further measures will be required because the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats introduced a new tax gap for pensioners while Sweden still had a transitional government. For me, this is a question of morality. Our pensioners should not pay higher taxes than employees. In Sweden, we will honor the elderly who have built up this country that we are so proud of.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-18	Mr President, I would like to The world in which we live is to be borrowed by future generations. We have a responsibility to build society sustainable, not only for us, but also for those who follow. The climate transition shall be carried out. But that also requires broad participation so that it is done in such a way that everyone can participate, no matter where you live and no matter what you earn. To this end, support for climate investment throughout the country should be increased. The protection of a valuable nature provides increased resources while taking into account the legal certainty of landowners. In order to compensate for longer distances and poorer service, the green tax shift is carried out, a tax reduction for people living in northern and north-west Sweden. Swedish industry is investing heavily to reduce its emissions. The government will face up to their efforts with more resources for the Industrial Cluster. It is through these investments that we build Sweden more sustainablely while securing the future's jobs by developing companies with climate-smart technology that can go out on the world market and compete. Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a country with both community and cohesion. Our whole country should not only live but also have the opportunity to grow. Swedish food production exists throughout our country. It is central to jobs and growth in rural areas and should therefore be strengthened. The proximity to commercial services in sparsely populated areas should also be ensured. Both physical and digital infrastructure should be equipped with improved maintenance of roads and railways and a faster pace in the roll-out of broadband. We will also improve government services outside the major cities with new service offices in Storuman, Torsby, Vansbro and Åsele. Smaller municipalities that have received many new arrivals in relation to their population will receive special funds in this budget. In addition, we want to strengthen the conditions for local journalism. It is important to have reviewing media throughout the country. Politicians throughout the country need to be examined by independent journalists. But having local media is also important for the cohesion of a society. This is why we are strengthening media support in rural areas. Housing construction has been at the highest levels in recent years since the million-dollar programme. But in many parts of the country, the lack of housing is common. This applies above all to housing that ordinary people can afford to rent. Investment support for the construction of rental apartments is therefore reinforced. We will then come up to 3 billion. However, in order to facilitate better use of the existing housing stock, the tax deferral ceiling for the sale of dwellings is also increased. Mr President, I would like to I know that everyone in this House is extremely angry at recent shootings. It is therefore welcome that we have broad political agreement that society should be strong enough to both combat and prevent crime. It is good that there are now wide-ranging discussions on how to fight crime. Next year, the Police Authority will receive its largest increase in funding in modern times in order to reach the target of 10,000 more police employees by 2024. This should be seen in the light of the resource supplements that have already enabled the police to employ 3,200 more employees since 2016. When we have more cops, more criminals will be caught. This increases the number of trials. The legal system therefore receives an additional 700 million in addition to previously planned increases in resources. The funds will go to the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the Swedish Criminal Service, the State Department Board, the Swedish Coast Guard, the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish National Board of Forensic Medicine. The Customs Agency receives increased resources to combat the influx of weapons and drugs in Sweden. It is also important that authorities have better opportunities to cooperate against welfare crimes, money laundering and funded organised crime and terrorism. A lot of crime is about finding resources. Taking these resources and reducing crime opportunities through our welfare systems is central to the fight against organised crime. The causes of crime can be combated long-term and persistently. It is therefore important that social services have the conditions for increasing resources for municipalities, especially that we can invest in those municipalities that have the greatest socio-economic challenges. In order to create better conditions for socially sustainable reception of refugees, the possibility for asylum seekers to organise their own accommodation in certain particularly vulnerable areas is also limited. In recent years, the security policy situation has deteriorated in our neighbourhood. The government will therefore strengthen military defence by SEK 5 billion in 2022 and another SEK 5 billion annually during the current focus period. The additional funds will be financed, inter alia, by a higher tax on the financial sector. It is high time the banks played their part. Mr President, I would like to Finally, on behalf of the government, let me thank the Center Party and the Liberals for their good cooperation on the budget proposal for 2020. In a complicated parliamentary situation, we parties have jointly chosen cooperation and compromise to tackle the social problems together. Together, we are now laying the foundations for a stronger society in which cohesion and security go hand in hand with people's freedom and opportunities. This is how we take Sweden forward.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-35	Mr President, I would like to So far this year we have had 214 shootings in Sweden. We have had 144 blasts – Sweden 2019. Mortal violence is on the increase. And the criminal gangs are becoming increasingly aggressive and violent. I believe that this challenges the rule of law and threatens the social contract. In addition, exposure to sexual offences increases. There's an increase in personal robbery. Yes, the list can be made long. In the Moderate and Christian Democrats' budget, which Magdalena Andersson now controls, we made historical investments in the judiciary, because it was needed and because we prioritised on the basis of the needs that Sweden had and has. You're surprised when you read this budget. I can only say that when the government and the two support parties are going to invest in the judiciary, they are spending more money on the year off than they do to the police. How can a government and its support parties be tone-done? This is where we have the big problems.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-39	Mr President, I would like to In this budget, 200 million will be spent on development time and 2.4 billion to the police for next year.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-40	That's ten times more to the police. In this budget, we are making the biggest financial increase in modern times on the police. And we will continue to invest in the police because we see that it needs to grow. We need 10,000 new police officers up to 2026. 563 could be hired in June. Another 1,700 have been admitted to police training. It is a great success that more people apply for police training. We need to keep strengthening the police. In addition, we are making very extensive efforts on the courts, prosecutors, prison services and other law enforcement authorities. It is a combined very powerful package. But that's not enough. We must also combat the causes of crime. It is extremely important to break the criminal gangs and to be tough on the crimes. We must also ensure that there is social effort so that there is a future for young people other than being dragged into the criminal gangs. Therefore, the efforts we make in socio-economically vulnerable areas are also an important law enforcement activity. I can only say that this was something that Elisabeth Svantesson slaughtered in her budget.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-45	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the applause that Magdalena Andersson received after the first speech! It was about the initiative that the Christian Democrats and the Moderates made and the path that we continue this year. I am glad that you are not cutting further, as you did last spring. It's obvious. The question, however, is what you are doing. I recommend Magdalena Andersson to look up p. 70 in Category 4 and read the table there. You're betting $120 million on the police. This was also the story of the Liberals when they presented this whole initiative. This is a fact. You can't hide behind anything else. In our opinion, when gang violence escalates and when more police officers and greater police presence are needed, serious efforts will be made on the police – even in 2020. The police need a higher salary. Police training needs to be paid. We need to attract more retired police officers to come back to work. Real efforts are needed. Because you know what? It is in budgets that it shows what is important, and in this budget the free year is more important than the police.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-49	Mr President, I would like to Budget decisions are one-year decisions, and this House will decide on the budget for next year. My proposal is that for next year the funding for the Police Authority will increase by SEK 2.4 billion while I propose SEK 200 million for development time. This is what the tables say.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-50	Mr President, I would like to In SVT's mission review was sent for, I believe, three weeks ago a report from Filipstad. It is a social democraticly governed municipality with tremendous worries. These are directly linked to a particularly high level of asylum immigration, with a high level of unemployment and the dependency of non-European asylum seekers. The unemployment rate for non-European immigrants is 80%. As can be seen from the above-mentioned reports, this is combined with a marked relocation of domestic children of working age. Overall, this is, to put it mildly, a bad combination. One of the last things that this government, with the support of some other parties, did before the Parliament closed before the summer was to enforce legislation aimed at further increasing family immigration to Sweden. My question to the Minister for Finance is therefore: how does the Minister of Finance think that, for example, Filipstad – there are also other municipalities – will be affected by further and even higher immigration in the near future given the problems that we know are already there today?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-52	Mr President, I would like to I am well aware of the economic challenges that exist in Filipstad. I spoke to the councillor less than a week ago. It is also against this background that we are making special efforts in the budget for those municipalities that have taken disproportionate responsibility for the reception of refugees. It is clear that they need support, and they will need continued support in the coming years. It is also important that we take greater joint responsibility for the reception of asylum. The government passed legislation to ensure that all municipalities take their share of the responsibility. Please remind me, Oscar Sjöstedt! Was it not that the Swedish Democrats did not think it was a good idea? Another thing we do in the budget is a change in EBO legislation in order to reduce the risk of certain areas being particularly vulnerable and for us to take a more even common responsibility for the reception of asylum.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-55	Mr President, I would like to I do not think it is taking responsibility if you end up in a situation such as Filipstad has done. They are not alone, but there are many other municipalities as well. There are municipalities that lead the way and really take responsibility. Sölvesborg is a good example. It is good that the government is making these special efforts on municipalities that have ended up in this situation. I think it is good because it is needed. But that's just one end of the problem. We also need to gain control of the expenditure side, not just of subsidies from the state. We all know what the expenditure side depends on. I would like to ask a genuine question, which is in no way rhetorical. Will the Social Democrats dare to pursue their own line in the Committee now appointed, which is represented by all eight parliamentary parties? Or will we allow ourselves once again to be kidnapped by their more or less extreme cooperation parties?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-58	Mr President, I would like to Oscar Sjöstedt did not answer the question whether they are in favour of or against our position that not only the whole of Europe should take responsibility for people on the run, but also all the municipalities in Sweden. I suppose it is because the Swedish Democrats were against our proposals that everyone should take responsibility, even if they are now complaining about Filipstad. Oscar Sjöstedt says that one must have control over the expenditure side. Yes, it is important to keep order in public finances. In fact, this government changed migration policy. Today I have been able to show that we have halved the costs of migration and integration. It is clearly visible in the figures that I present. At the same time, it is important to support those municipalities that have specific challenges. There are proposals for this in the budget. I hope, of course, that this will gain broad support in Parliament. But I can note that Oscar Sjöstedt pushed through a budget that slaughtered precisely the aid that goes to municipalities like Filipstad with the M-KD budget. You, Oscar Sjöstedt, voted against great support for Filipstad.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-61	Mr President, I would like to Being able to sit down and hold a wrinkled hand, having time to be a fellow human being, having time and energy for work that actually needs to be done, and simply having reasonable working conditions so that one can also be able to be with the family when one comes home may seem to be reasonable demands. But that's not the case. Nurses have tried to sound the alarm, including through Kommunal and the nurse rebellion. What they demand is as reasonable as reasonable working conditions. Of course, they can also imagine a better salary for their responsible work. I meet and hear about nurses who cry when they come home, who do not have time for toilet visits and who eat food in the car. They leave home when the children are asleep and come home when the children are in bed, but they are only paid for two thirds of their working hours. Yet the savings in care for the elderly will continue, as the Social Democrats have now decided. In Bollnäs short-term housing is closed. In Hälleforsnäs you should save 14 million in home care so that each elderly person gets less help, equivalent to 77 000 SEK per old person. In Ludvika, 12 million will be saved in care for the elderly. In Mjölby there will be a cooperation at night with responsibility for 24 residents with dementia and so on. However, it is not the crisis in care for the elderly, the under-financing of welfare or the 100,000 members of the Municipal Council who are forced to work on shared tours that are prioritised in this budget. We could read gold rain over the country's high wage earners in the newspaper headlines. There will be 6,000 million for those with the highest income, while there will be zero in new targeted contributions to care for the elderly. The financial elite won on walk-over against the elderly in home care and against the nurses. In Social Democracy Sweden, underpaid women wear themselves out into welfare, while high-paid well-off men receive large tax cuts. Why, Magdalena Andersson?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-66	Mr President, I would like to Ulla Andersson talks about the assistant nurses' working conditions, and it is very good that this is being debated in the Riksdag. These are fantastic efforts that nurses throughout the country perform every day, 24 hours a day, all year round. They are the heroes of everyday life, which makes our older people have a safe everyday life. These nurses need better working conditions, which is why we are also providing additional resources to the municipalities this year. Municipalities and county councils receive 8 billion. But we want to continue to increase resources in the coming years. This is a crucial issue for the future. The really big task in politics in the coming years is to ensure that municipalities have the opportunity to employ enough to ensure a safe everyday life for the elderly and reasonable working conditions for all those who work in home care. With the tens of thousands that will have to be employed, employers, both private and municipal, must ensure that working conditions are reasonable. Otherwise, new generations will not go to these professions. Shared tours are an example that means that young people who think about professions may not have just home help at the top of their wish list. Therefore, the increased resources for the well-being of this budget – but also those that come – are an important investment in our elderly and for the future.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-70	Mr President, I would like to I quote Magdalena Andersson :.well-being towards tax cuts is a conflict in Swedish politics. I have to say that the Social Democrats have now chosen sides in this conflict. It was the tax cuts that won against welfare. In no other way can I interpret this budget. It is an under-funding of welfare that will hit very hard on nurses and against old people. It will not be a single new crown in targeted government grants to elderly care, but 2 1⁄2 million in reduced tax to Volvo's CEO. It will be zero SEK for municipalities in targeted state grants to improve quality and working conditions in elderly care. You can commend nurses, but what they need is better working conditions, more resources and more colleagues. It doesn't give this budget. The savings will continue to roll forward. I'm sorry you fail in this way.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-72	Mr President, I would like to With this budget, resources for municipalities and county councils increase by SEK 8 billion. That's a lot of money. But there will be a need for additional resources in the future. This is also part of the January agreement. Then it is no secret that there are compromises in the budget. There are proposals in this budget that I would not have come forward with if we had had a Social Democratic majority government or a Social Democratic majority in Parliament. But Ulla Andersson knows that the alternative to the January agreement is not a Social Democratic sole government but a right-wing government led by Ulf Kristersson. Then this is a far better option. I think Ulla Andersson and I agree on that.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-74	Mr President, I would like to If you step into the budget building of the January parties in Rosenbad, it is not without feeling a bit like the TV's Arga carpenter, who comes into the construction pond of a renovation household that has fallen wrong and states: You have no plan! Angry carpenter quickly identifies the usual causes of problem building. Those who are going to renovate together have conflicting wills. The basic functions of the house are neglected in favour of various projects that seem nice at the moment. Now the money for the construction project risks ending before the most necessary thing is fixed. This is also the case here. There are 73 points. There's a budget. But there's no plan. Partial architects have forced on each other their favorite projects, to be implemented with their very tools: building subsidies, market rents, climate change, development time, entry tax and military tax. It consumes resources and takes time and energy from other sources. But while it is painted in the bedroom and the cabinet doors are changed in the kitchen, the care pipes leak. There's a stop in the care faucets, and security fences are failing. The necessary repairs are missing. When the material is almost exhausted, you try to fix the welfare holes with the small plastic padding tube that you have left. Don't blame me – I'm forced to do this, says the construction manager, who has been allowed to continue. I believe in essence that Magdalena Andersson understands the problem and perhaps wants to be different from this. Then my question is: In the situation that Sweden is facing with the challenges we have, which of all projects does the Minister for Finance think should be interrupted in favour of reforms and resources for welfare and security? Is this about input tax, development time or maybe military tax?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-77	Mr President, I would like to It was an elegant metaphor by Jakob Forssmed. All credit for this! This budget addresses the social problems we face. We who are part of this cooperation will never sit still as long as people are pushed on the open street, as long as older people who have worked a long life still do not make the economy go together, as long as children and young people who feel bad and suffer from mental illness do not receive treatment on time or as long as our elderly are not safe in their everyday lives. That is why this is a collaboration and a budget in which we take responsibility for the social challenges that we see in the long term. We make the biggest additions to the police in modern times. We make sure that over 11⁄2 million pensioners who have worked and paid taxes get more money left in their wallet. We are strengthening welfare and making special efforts on children's and young people's psychiatry. Overall, 8 billion goes to strengthening welfare. In addition, we have efforts on climate change, on the whole country to live and on growing companies. Overall, it is a well-balanced budget that addresses the societal challenges we have and builds a stronger Sweden for the future.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-81	Mr President, I would like to This is not a well-balanced budget. It does not deal with the social problems we have. It is excellent that the efforts made by the Moderates and Christian Democrats to this House on municipalities are now solid and that resources are being allocated to the municipalities. But that's not enough. More needs to be done. It does not take responsibility for the most important activities of welfare when it does not spend more money on elderly care staff and nursing homes. Solar cell support receives more than twice the school out of the 25 billion that the government is considered to have in the space of reform. Building subsidies receive ten times more than the elderly out of this 25 billion. The elderly are receiving 60 million out of 25 billion in new resources. By far the biggest effort is made to lower taxes for those who earn the most, while a nurse in Emmaboda receives zero in reduced taxes. This is not good.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-84	Mr President, I would like to That Jakob Forssmed would be satisfied with the budget, I would not have expected. Jakob Forssmed would rather have a small government led by the Moderates and Christian Democrats and sitting completely on the knees of the Swedish Democrats. It is the wishful dream of the Christian Democrats. Of course this is a slightly different policy. What Jakob Forssmed forgets when he talks about the nurses is that we have 8 billion in increased resources for welfare. It is not only targeted money that goes to care for the elderly and the school, but the general state subsidies that we have do so. The municipalities, which are responsible for the activities, feel that general state grants provide much better support than small targeted state grants that go to specific activities. In this way, we strengthen the municipalities in the long term and enable them to create a good upbringing for our children in the long term and a safe old age for our elderly.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-86	Mr President, I would like to What is most important for Sweden? I assume that the government will ask itself that question every day, but especially when it prepares and negotiates a budget. If you do, you can quickly see that there are no urgent problems or long-term challenges to be addressed. This requires action, especially now that we are entering a worse economic situation. But for five years with this government, a boom has been wasted. An irresponsible immigration policy has been pursued and the problems have not been addressed. That is why there is a great need for reform. Local government costs are running low. The care queues are winding long. Integration doesn't work. Companies are forced to refrain from expanding due to lack of electricity. Growth per person is among the lowest in the EU. But above all, Mr President, the increasingly severe violence, and especially now the gang violence, is characteristic of Swedish everyday life. It is not just a summer of sun and bath that we leave behind. We leave behind us a summer of horrendous blasts, terrible shootings and murders that are pure executions. It affects people. It worries people. Their eyes are facing us in here. They expect us to do something about it. They demand from us that we give the right priority. That's why they pay taxes. It is our job to ensure that their tax money goes to the right things, and the most necessary thing first. What is most important for Sweden. That is why I am surprised when I read the budget. What should be most important and most necessary? Where are the needs greatest? Anyone who finds it difficult to orient himself can recall high school when we talk about the need stairway. When people are forced to choose, they choose security before self-realization. That's perfectly reasonable. Before we can realize ourselves, we must first of all be and feel secure. Ensuring the security of citizens is also the most important task of the state, ours, but above all of the government. Therefore, it surprises me that the government and the two support parties seem to think that so much more is more important than that Sweden should be safe again and that the budget invests twice as much on free years as on the police. Mr President, I would like to I want to stay here for a while. It's serious in so many ways. I think we agree that integration is one of the predestined issues of our time. Almost all political parties have their favourite proposals for this. It's about jobs, education and languages. It's incredibly important. There's a lot to take care of. But the truth is that the government has not even been able to guarantee the security of the areas where many of the people live that we think should be integrated. How can you realize yourself, think about education, a job or changing jobs if you are not at first safe? It should come as no surprise that in vulnerable areas there are some people who are and feel vulnerable. It's women and men living neighbors with killers and gang members. It is people who risk getting the car burned up and the store broken down. They're kids who wake up in the middle of the night terrified that there's a big bang outside the window. Qasim who has lived on Malmvägen in Sollentuna for 20 years feels no security. He says this to Aftonbladet.It feels like bad things can happen at any time. The police should be here more often, and we should get surveillance cameras, so you can keep track of which cars are coming in. It's his need. I don't think all his neighbors and Qasim himself yearn for freedom. They long to be taken seriously. They want to be safe. It is our responsibility, everyone's responsibility in here, to provide for it. We Moderates have said that we are happy to put aside other things, to cooperate on strong legislation and more resources, in order to tackle the serious violence. It's necessary right now. It would have needed more of that in the budget. It's urgent. Mr President, I would like to There are parts of the budget that I think are good, of course. This concerns efforts to combat violence of honour, the abolition of the military tax and to continue to reduce the tax on pensioners. But the problem is that this budget has not had the best interests of Sweden for its eyes. They have not looked out over Sweden. Instead, they have looked down into their paper with the 73 points and ticked the wish list. Then it's just like this. I would like to quote one of the main figures in the hearing who said to Dagens Industri the day before yesterday: I can see that. There is no consensus on the long-term important reforms that Sweden needs to increase growth and regain full employment. That is all that is so important if Sweden is to have a chance to be stronger tomorrow than today, if we are to have more to share in the future. What is to be achieved? Is there another job? Why, then, are we being proposed to work less? Perhaps we want to achieve less economic gaps. Then why do you lower taxes for the most well-paid but not for everyone who goes to work? Maybe it's more security you want to achieve. It is doubtful, as I have said before, because there are hardly any new investments in the police. Perhaps it is a green tax shift to save the climate you want to achieve. Rather, it is a red tax on all those living in the countryside or those who are dependent on the car every day. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has great needs. But Sweden does not need family weeks, no free years and no construction subsidies that do not work. Sweden does not need all the special solutions that now arise in tax policy. We need a tax reform that ensures that more people get into jobs, more start up businesses and that leads to increased growth. We Moderates will be presenting our budget shortly. It will be based on Sweden's needs in the short and long term. I think it is time for taxpayers in Sweden to get currency for their tax money. In the short term, this is about the social contract. It is about establishing security in streets and squares, ensuring that the municipalities are able to maintain well-being. Sweden should be a country where all residents know that every hour worked, every effort, pays but that every tax crown that effort generates also goes to the right thing. Unlike the government, we know which Sweden we want to see in the future. Sweden should be a safe country where girls who now grow up and become teenagers dare to take the bus home after a party. Sweden should be a country where the work line applies to everyone and where the grant ceiling prevents passivity. Sweden should be a country where entrepreneurs dare to bet, fail, and then try again to finally succeed. Sweden should be a country where companies choose to establish themselves instead of moving from here. Sweden should be a country where integration, which today is often a problem, can instead help to solve the problems. With language requirements, adult grant ceilings and a school that focuses on knowledge, conditions are provided for everyone to make their life's journey. Sweden should be a country where everyone dares to dream of owning their own home and where not only a few have the opportunity to realize that dream. We want to see a Sweden and a world that fights climate change together instead of allowing them, as they do today, to create contradictions and injustices both between city and country and between nations. Mr President, I would like to Finally, if all this is to be possible, Sweden must first address the most urgent problems and meet the greatest needs. I'll ask the question again. What is most important for Sweden? What are Sweden's needs today, September 18, 2019? Is there an increased police presence, more surveillance cameras called for by Qasim in Sollentuna, or are there drej courses for civil engineers that the Green Party wants? You bourgeois Members in here who do not think that taxpayers' money should go to inefficient construction subsidies, who do not think that Sweden should prioritise family weeks ahead, who see what happens when the countryside gets to draw the heaviest load for the government's luxury project, are, along with everyone else, warmly welcome to vote for the Moderates' budget when it comes, because we are in opposition to that particular policy.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-110	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Svantesson says: What is the most important thing for Sweden? What have the Moderates been doing for the past few weeks? It is that it should be Sunday open at Systembolaget and that we should have advertising in public service. The news should be interrupted with advertising breaks for Online Casino, bag-in-box wine and SMS loans. I was going to ask you a completely different question. There is broad political agreement that the fight against crime needs to be intensified. It is good that we now have cross-block cooperation and talks about it. Last term of office, the government made a huge contribution to the police. The target is 10,000 new police officers. The prerequisite for that is that there is a police training. It has now been expanded. In June, 563 newly graduated police officers were recruited, and over 1,700 new police graduates were admitted to police training. Here I note that the Moderates in government had a very different view of police training. When the Moderates were in government, the number of places on police training was reduced from 1,710 all the way down to 141. Then the emergency brake was pulled and another hundred were restored. But it is only during this government that police training has been expanded considerably so that we are now training all the police we need. I'm a little curious, because even the Moderates see the need for us to have police employees. Then the question is, why? How did you think when you decided to train only a few hundred police officers each year when you were in a government position? What was the idea and the idea behind it?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-114	Mr President, I would like to It is fascinating that we have a Minister of Finance who has been in charge of Sweden for five years and who prefers to talk about the Moderate Party Assembly and about old politics rather than taking responsibility for Sweden. It's serious for real.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-115	First of all, a lot has happened in Sweden for five years. I have noted this, and I think almost everyone in this room except the Minister for Finance has noted it. The exposure to crime, violence and gang crime that we now see has emerged in recent years. I'm proud that we increased the number of police officers during the alliance years. I am also proud that we have now come up with proposals for paid police training. I think it's one of the keys. When Magdalena Andersson tries to brag with new police, I can add that only in the last three years have 2,700 police officers stopped. They have left the profession, not as pensioners, but because they are no longer able to cope. They earn too little, and they are at too high a risk. And what does Magdalena Andersson do? She does not take responsibility for Sweden and does not take responsibility for her own budget. Instead, she talks about the Moderate Party Congress and about political proposals there. I think the Swedish people expect something else.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-119	Mr President, I would like to I take responsibility every day for Sweden. We have taken a great responsibility to rebuild the police after the Moderates cut back on police training. There are now 3,600 more police employees compared to 2016, and we want to continue to expand the police. I note that Elisabeth Svantesson is not answering my question. It was honest. You want more policemen in the Moderates, and you must have wanted that earlier, too. Then why did you reduce police training by 90%? There was no shortage of money, because you reduced the tax by 140 billion. Why was it so important not to train more cops? What was the idea behind that?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-121	Mr President, I would like to This is weird. It is a strange debate, because we reached a target of 20 000 police officers over the eight years. I'm happy, happy and proud of it. But I cannot be satisfied with a situation in which the population has increased sharply and where the police density is decreasing. When I was talking to Christer, who is head of the police in Lapland, in Lycksele, he told me that there were two people covering the whole of southern Lapland during the weekend. It is an area as large as Denmark. No, the Minister of Finance is now in charge! We are making concrete proposals. We're strengthening the police with resources. We did so in our budget, and we will continue to do so. We have the proposals forward. But Magdalena Andersson never wants to take responsibility. She wants to talk about eight years during the Alliance. It suits her better, probably because reality is so brutal. The reality is terrible for many people out there. I wish the government would take responsibility.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-124	Mr President, I would like to This budget does not allow the over-indexation of fuel taxes to break through. This corresponds to a tax loss of nearly 1 billion. In addition, a targeted tax reduction is implemented to all those living in northern and western Sweden, assisted areas A and B. It is a purely rural tax reduction. In total, we are doing tax cuts on jobs, entrepreneurship and many other things with SEK 13 billion – or, as Elisabeth Svantesson describes it: a red tax stream. The question is, Elisabeth Svantesson : What does your definition of the concept of red tax punch really look like?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-126	Mr President, I would like to That is a very good question, Emil. My point with this tax policy and my point with the budget that I now see is that it strikes unfairly. I do not see that the countryside will be much better off. I can honestly say that without the Centre Party, rural areas would have had less resources; I am convinced of that. But I do not believe in a kind of postcode lottery tax where you divide Sweden into different parts and say: You who have this postal code get this tax. If you are assistant nurse in Bollnäs you will get a tax reduction, but if you are assistant nurse in Mönsterås you will not get a tax reduction even though the tax is much higher in Mönsterås. I do not believe in that kind of tax policy. Nor do I believe in a tax policy that makes it more expensive for vehicle owners. The fact is that next year everyone who has a car in Sweden, especially those who live in the countryside, will be hit pretty hard. The vehicle tax on a very large number of vehicles is increasing and the petrol tax is, by definition, more expensive with this proposal. Or have I misunderstood this? Can Emil Källström tell us that the tax or petrol price will be lower as a result of this cooperation?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-129	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much; I think it was a nice confession from Elisabeth Svantesson! As far as the price of petrol is concerned, I do not operate drones in Saudi Arabia or anything like that, and with that there is a lot that I cannot influence. On the other hand, we have ensured that fuel taxes are not increased in this budget. What is being done is an indexation to inflation. It corresponded to 17 cents in the budget that Elisabeth Svantesson presented a year ago, and now it is 15 cents. This has been the case since 1994. I am pleased that the Moderates are critical on this point, because this must mean that the moderate budget movement will present something even better for Sweden's rural population. We have chosen a path for areas A and B, because that was the way forward if we want to reduce the tax on those who pay the most quickly. Perhaps the Moderates have an even better solution. We will study your budget exercise. If the proposal is better there, we will work to implement it. I think it is good that the Moderates are offensive here, and I hope that the budget motion is as offensive as Elisabeth Svantesson's rhetoric.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-133	Mr President, I would like to Just wait, Emil Källström!
i-80023eee2165b2ed-134	I can promise you a few things right now. I can promise that we will not only lower taxes for those who earn the most, because I think that everyone who goes to work every day needs to feel that you get something out of this. So I can promise you that, and I have to say that is offensive. It also creates growth. We know that reducing taxes on income increases employment, so I can promise you this right here and now. But there will be more bets, so bench you and buy chips and drink and I'll text you when we have budget presentation!
i-80023eee2165b2ed-136	Mr President, I would like to We who can call Sweden our home are fortunate. We live in one of the richest countries in the world, which has built prosperity for generations. But in other parts of the world the situation is serious. Democratic development is going in the wrong direction, and the rights of women and girls are being attacked. Conflicts and climate crises are forcing people to flee their homes. In this situation, it is disappointing that the Moderates now want to abandon the 1% target and cut aid by more than SEK 7 billion per year. It is basically taking money from the poorest people in the world and giving to those of us who are the richest. I think that Sweden as a country can do better than that. Swedish aid goes to the fight against poverty, to development efforts, to strengthen women's rights, to international climate work, to the strengthening of international institutions and to much, much more. Elisabeth Svantesson talks about priorities. I would like to take this opportunity to tell her here and now what it is in Swedish aid that she wants to remove.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-140	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. For those of you who see this and who listen to the debate, it may be good to add that next year aid will automatically be written up by 1.4 billion. There are 50 billion this year, and next year there will be 1.4 billion more. Aid is the only policy area in this Parliament that is growing automatically. It also means that when we get to the end of a year, this often happens: we see that Bni is growing, we have a 1% target and then we hurry to pump money into more projects. This is totally untenable! And it is not the case, Mr President, that we take money from the poor. Our taxpayers here in Sweden should expect us to manage the aid properly, and I am absolutely convinced that the money would be even more useful if we do as we propose: remove the 1% target, which only Norway and Sweden have, and have a four-year aid framework. Then we can have a discussion here, just as we have about research, infrastructure and other things, about how the aid is to be used. All the things that Karolina Skog now listed are important things, but remember that 15–20 percent of the aid is just emergency aid. There are many other important initiatives. I do not think it is a serious policy to write up aid every year in the way we have done. With our proposal, Sweden will be the third largest donor in the OECD. We will be, and we will be proud of that. However, I am convinced that it would be better to abolish the 1% target.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-144	Mr President, I would like to The OECD recently gave very high marks on Swedish aid and highlighted that we are one of the few countries that ensure that aid reaches the poorest in the world. We are also very good at gender equality in aid and provide stability for several important international institutions. I and many Swedes with me are very proud of our assistance. I can assure you that the Green Party will fight for the 1% target every time we need it. However, I have still not received an answer to the question of what it is in Swedish aid that Elisabeth Svantesson and the Moderates want to remove. There's a new opportunity now.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-146	Mr President, I would like to This is still a little fascinating. I agree that we are doing a great deal of good in the world; I just want to say that. That is why I think that 43 billion, which is an enormous amount of money, should continue to apply. But if there are no problems, why do you now send quite a lot of millions to Sida to tackle corruption? So there are problems in Swedish aid. As aid grows only years from year to year, we have even less chance of controlling the money. You let it grow; we think it should be a framework. That does not mean by definition that in the years four and five you save money on it, but we have a different framework, a different level. We will still be the third largest donor in the OECD, and I think we should be proud of that. But we also have needs at home, and we also want to prioritise them.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-149	Mr President, I would like to Normally in these contexts we talk about fiscal policy, of course, but I would like to take the opportunity to talk some monetary policy too – monetary policy, to be more precise. The Swedish currency, the krona, is at historical bottom levels against other currencies – the dollar, the euro, the Swiss franc, you name it. You have to give almost $10 for a dollar today. Five years ago it was under 8 kroner and a hundred years ago, if we want to back up the band really long, about 3 kroner. You can think of this a little what you want. It's sad if you're going on holiday to the United States, for example, but it can also be good for some of our more export-oriented companies because their goods will then be cheaper in relative terms – short-term good in any case, certainly not long-term. But that's not the point. The interesting thing about this is why the market behaves in this way. You might think that the market is not rational if you want to, but it is a rather strange thing to think, to say the least. The contrasting currencies contain rather complex relationships. There are many parameters that affect. You can blame Stefan Ingves and the Riksbank, who insist on keeping such a low interest rate that no one wants to park their assets in Swedish kronor. In fact, that would be partly correct. But the Swedish central bank is not the only one in the world to surround itself with a low interest rate environment. The ECB, the European Central Bank, has a negative interest rate. Denmark has a negative interest rate, more than Sweden even. But one can also blame Stefan Löfven, who, alongside the Minister for Finance, is ultimately responsible for economic policy. The fall in the crown is similar to what you see in countries where a coup d'état has taken place. It was Nordea's chief strategist who spoke in this way, not me. I believe, Mr President, that this is an effect of external confidence in the Swedish economy, economic policy, the political system and the state of the country as a whole – an effect of the international will to invest in Sweden at all. It is about low productivity growth, low growth in GDP per capita and low confidence in the government, a government which, moreover, has shown a flagrant inability to solve immediate and urgent problems, not least with regard to crime. Internationally, they do not want to deal with Swedish crowns because they lack confidence in Swedish political governance. That's what the connection looks like. You don't have to be an economist to understand that. This responsibility lies primarily with Stefan Löfven and his Minister of Finance. Mr President, I would like to Just before this Assembly went on summer leave, the Social Democrats pushed through a new migration policy legislation aimed at further increasing family migration to Sweden. The Social Democrats, supported by their obeying parties C, L and MP as well as the Communists and unfortunately also the Christian Democrats, actively push through legislation aimed at increasing immigration to Sweden. There is nothing learned from the migration crisis we had in Sweden in the autumn of 2015 and which we still have today. Nothing has been learned about what it actually looks like around the country's municipalities. First, there is a completely irresponsible immigration policy. Then the municipalities are forced to receive a lot of people, regardless of their ability, their capacity or their willingness to pursue a successful integration policy. Then there is a crisis as a letter in the mail, and that crisis lands on the municipalities, not infrequently on social democraticly-governed municipalities. And the check for the crisis also lands on the municipalities. These are small municipalities, sparsely populated municipalities, municipalities where the price per square metre of a right-of-occupancy apartment does not amount to SEK 100 000, as in some areas of Stockholm, but perhaps SEK 1 000, if so. It is those municipalities and their inhabitants who pay the price for your irresponsible policy in the form of dismantled welfare and increased insecurity. That is what this government's priorities look like. It's scary. It's sad. In the mission review just a few weeks ago we could see a report from Filipstad, a social democraticly governed municipality that is burdened with something immense, not least economically, by a very large asylum reception and has 80 percent unemployment among overseas immigrants. The municipality's own integration manager describes the situation as that our population is changing. "There is no demand for foreign-born illiterates, says an operating coordinator at the Employment Service. As unemployed, benefit dependent new arrivals move in, native born Swedes of working age move out and put the municipality in an even bigger crisis. So this is something that the government has forced on the municipalities, against their will. Mr President, I would like to Although it may be somewhat outside the scope of this dossier, I would nevertheless like to highlight the election of the new President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen – an election that was not least the Social Democrats behind and thus made possible. It is certainly a capable and competent person in every way, but it is also a person who wants to standardise wage formation at European, federal level. It is a person who wants to move the unemployment fund to the European, federal level and who wants to implement the so-called social pillar, which in practice would mean that Sweden loses control of large parts of labour market policy while at the same time having to pay for the social rights of other states. This is totally unreasonable, as I see it. The Social Democrats have therefore actively chosen to give power to a person who wants to move control and influence over the wage formation process and unemployment insurance from the Swedish parties to the EU level – in practice a dismantling of the Swedish model, if she gets what she wants. The Swedish model is apparently not to be developed at all, but to be phased out. We voted against this proposal, and we will defend the Swedish model with beaks and claws, in this House and in the chambers of Strasbourg and Brussels. It really is beyond my comprehension, Mr President, how the majority of Swedish trade unions are still behind the Social Democracy in Sweden. I don't understand it. I am absolutely convinced that the majority of these trade unionists are acting not in the best interests of their members but in the interests of someone else. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats will take strong action to restore law and order, create security in streets and squares and strengthen municipal welfare. We are prepared to do this together with other parties. But this government is obviously incapable of taking on this great task.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-170	Before giving the floor to the Minister for Finance, I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that we have been visited in the gallery by Norway's Grand President Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen with delegation, who is here on an official visit. I think we welcome our Norwegian colleagues with a round of applause.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-171	Welcome to the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament!
i-80023eee2165b2ed-172	Mr President, I would like to A fundamental moral principle for me and the entire government is that you should not pay higher taxes on your pension than on the salary you get when you work. The next year's budget continues to close the tax gap for pensioners introduced by Moderates' job tax deductions. The fact is that we would have closed the gap for all over 65 with this budget if it had not been for the sixth job tax deduction voted through at the end of the year and created a greater tax gap than the transitional budget. This new tax gap for pensioners would not have existed if Oscar Sjöstedt and the Swedish Democrats had not voted in favour of introducing a sixth job tax deduction. And this is not the first time the Swedish democrats have failed the country's pensioners. In autumn 2014, you stopped the government's first tax cut for pensioners with the lowest income. Not at any time during the election movement did Oscar Sjöstedt, Jimmie Åkesson or any other Swedish democratic representative say that they would vote for a sixth job tax deduction and create a new tax gap for pensioners. I would like to know, Oscar Sjöstedt: why did you vote for a sixth job tax deduction without the pensioners receiving a corresponding reduction in their tax?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-175	Mr President, I would like to I'll definitely answer that. In the draft budget that we put on Parliament's table quite exactly a year ago, we had removed the whole difference in taxation between income from employment and income from pensions. After all, that proposal fell; it did not win a hand in this House. Maybe it wasn't completely unheard of, but that's what happened. The two opposing proposals in the final vote were the government's budget and the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. After our own option had fallen, we sat down and looked at these two proposals and simply noted that the M-KD budget was somewhat more appealing to us, inter alia because it went forward with greater tax cuts for pensioners than the government did in its budgetary option. There was one thing that appealed to us in the draft budget of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. Had I had to decide, there would have been no difference whatsoever. Now I'm not allowed to decide, but I can at least think. This year, too, I will put a proposal on Parliament's table, where we will remove the entire tax gap between service and pension. If this is a burning issue for the Minister for Finance, she can call on her parliamentary group to vote on my draft budget instead.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-178	Mr President, I would like to The fact remains that the Swedish Democrats have voted twice, once during the last parliamentary term and once during this term of office, in such a way that the tax gap for pensioners is greater than it would have been without the push of a button for which you are responsible, Oscar Sjöstedt. In the autumn of 2014, you stopped a tax cut for pensioners, and in December 2018, you chose to widen the gap in relation to what was on the table of the Riksdag. That's how the Swedish Democrats vote when they have the chance. They say no to tax reduction and widen the tax gap – that's how the Swedish Democrats put pressure in practice. This has been felt twice by Swedish pensioners.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-179	Mr President, I would like to What is most relevant to a pensioner, or to an employee for that matter? Are these the effects on your own wallet? Yeah, probably. The Minister of Finance is talking about gaps. I think that the gap should be removed, but it is clear that the Minister for Finance is satisfied if everyone has huge taxes and barely gets to keep anything of their income, as long as it is the same for everyone. May I decide, we will remove the gap completely, but it is also important that we can reduce the tax on pensioners, for example, which we are talking about now. If this is important, you can vote for the draft budget that I will put on Parliament's table in about two weeks' time. There will be no gulf there. But sometimes we get into the situation that our proposal falls and we have two proposals left. In this case, it was so simple that the proposal presented by the Moderates and the Christian Democrats was better, partly because it contained lower taxes for pensioners than the proposal presented by the Minister for Finance. That is why we in our parliamentary group chose to vote as we did. It's pretty simple.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-181	Mr President, I would like to The world's bravest people are currently found in Hong Kong. Some of the world's bravest young people stand up for democracy and human rights. In another part of the world, a few days ago one of the world's largest oil refineries was attacked in what was probably a drone attack. The world market price for oil is immediately affected. Minutes and hours later, when we refuel our cars, we can see what has happened through price increases at the pump. Here in our vicinity, it has become increasingly clear in recent months that Germany, which has been Europe's locomotive in recent years, is slowing down. Sweden's largest trading partner balances dangerously close to the precipice of recession. These three events can all be added to the already fairly long list of uncertainties as to how the world economy is developing in the future: Brexit, the trade war between primary China and the United States, and political and economic unrest in both southern Europe and South America. All of this affects the world economy in the short and long term, and it also affects us at home in Sweden. It affects jobs, private investment and – directly and indirectly – every aspect of how our society works. In this House, Mr President, there are 349 Members from eight parties. Our single most important common task is to equip Sweden more strongly to cope with anxiety times, both economic and others. Mr President, I would like to The budget we are debating today is a defence and security budget. This budget includes efforts to strengthen the very foundations of security. After all, the most important task of a state is always to guarantee citizens freedom and security, security, from both external and internal threats. But let us be honest: There has been a great deal of laxity in the view of Sweden's defence and justice systems in recent years and decades. This budget is taking major steps away from this. The whole legal chain is strengthened, with additions to police, prosecutors, courts, penitentiary and customs. When we need to work hard against the gangs and mark points, prosecute and lock up individuals who have sworn themselves completely free from society's norms, when we – if I am to be quite frank – must defend the good against evil, more resources and powers are absolutely necessary. We take it up in this budget. As far as the defence economy is concerned, we write with this budget bill history. The additions now announced after the defence preparation process are the largest reinforcement of the defence since the 1960s. Increases of 5 billion annually mean that we will soon reach defence efforts of 1.5% of GDP – a good step towards the Center Party's long-term ambition to reach NATO's common target of 2% of GDP. Here I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to last year's budget motion by the Moderates and Christian Democrats. It also provided proper support for defence and justice systems. The additions that are now being made exceed the increases in ambition that occurred at the time. These documents, what was done a year ago and what is being done now, mean overall a new situation and a new playing field for these a state's absolutely fundamental tasks. Mr President, I would like to The budget that has been put on the table today is a budget for the whole country. Strengthening broadband, regional railways and individual roads are all examples of investment in rural conditions in the form of fixed infrastructure. This budget also recognises the tax gap between our small rural municipalities and the country on average in terms of how much municipal tax is paid each month. Unfortunately, the link is that the smaller the population, the longer the distance you have and the worse the public service you get, not least the state, the higher the municipal tax you pay. We are now taking steps to offset this injustice by reducing taxes in assisted areas A and B, i.e. large parts of northern and western Sweden. There are those in this House who think that a tax cut of SEK 1 650 per person per year is too little. I very much welcome this criticism, because it can only mean that more parties and actors now intend to advance their positions in rural policy. I look forward to competition in this area. Until other parties go from talk to workshop and start delivering, me and the Center Party will be investing in investment, tax reduction for tax reduction and budgeting continue to create a Sweden that is in a reasonably better balance than it is right now. This is what it will look like: a tax reduction here and an effort there but overall small steps in the right direction. Mr President, I would like to This is a tax bench budget. In total, the tax burden is reduced by just over 13 billion. The major changes are the tax reduction for Sweden's rural areas that I have just described, a downward revision of the marginal tax through the removal of the military tax, a substantial tax reduction for the country's pensioners and a reduction in employers' contributions for the companies and employers who hire those who are new to the Swedish labour market. Fully expanded, the reduction in employers' contributions is about a tax reduction for Swedish entrepreneurship of nearly 7 billion annually. It's important and good in itself. However, this tax reduction also means that through the removal of employers' contributions we will significantly reduce the cost of hiring those who are new to the Swedish labour market, regardless of whether they are 19 years old and are looking for their first job or 42 years old and recently arrived from Syria and are trying to get a foothold on the Swedish labour market. These are people who today are not part of our labour market or our community, who will have a simpler way into work. It is important, and it is a problem that is greater than just tax cuts. It is about education and the policy of entrepreneurs, those who create jobs. However, we cannot ignore the fact that we need to reduce the costs of hiring those who are not entering the labour market today. I call it a tax bench budget, and I believe that there is an intrinsic value in lowering the Swedish tax burden. That is good in itself, as lower taxes mean that people and companies are allowed to retain more of their own resources and money. However, it is also a question of achieving greater economic activity in the form of more companies, more growing companies, more jobs and more hours worked through a sensible design of tax cuts. Wise tax cuts mean that the total cake grows. That's good. Mr President, I would like to Despite the status of this budget as a tax sink budget, there is also room for significant efforts. In addition to the efforts already mentioned on defence and justice, this budget includes important investments in education and strengthening for municipalities and regions, important initiatives on gender equality and care, and not least an important effort to combat children's and young people's mental ill health. We also prioritise a substantial climate and environmental budget, to the extent of the largest Sweden ever seen. Here I would like to highlight a number of initiatives that are particularly important. When we are now changing the fleet of vehicles, when more and more vehicles – both private cars and ultimately heavy traffic – will go on electricity, we must ensure that electric vehicles can be used throughout the country. Therefore, it is wise to invest in charging poles and an infrastructure for these that is being expanded throughout our country. The white spots that currently exist should be removed. This is also why we are pushing to use our forest in a better and more reasonable way. Of course, acceptance of an offensive climate policy and an offensive environmental policy increases if it is Swedish raw materials, Swedish companies and Swedish jobs that deliver that development. That is also why the so-called over-indexation is not allowed to break through in the taxation of fuels. We must strike a balance between offensive climate policy and popular acceptance of it. We carry both of these values. They are part of the DNA of our party, and I think we have landed the various interests in a good way in this budget bill. Mr President, I would like to Despite all the wise bets, most of it is undone. It is fascinating, because this budget has just been presented and will not take effect until the end of the year. Yet we are discussing what is going into the next budget. We see the need for further strengthening of the local government sector. It will need to be refilled with additional funds. We still see the need to address the basic structural needs of Sweden. We need to modernise the labour market and the housing market. We are taking a number of important steps in this budget. There are processes going on in parallel with this budget. Studies are in place on the new labour market policy and housing policy. This is simply the case with regard to the joint efforts that we 349 Members in eight parties have to deal with that the vast majority are undone, but this budget is taking important steps in the right direction.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-207	Mr President, I would like to This Parliament spends approximately SEK 75 billion each year on labour market policy. Nevertheless, we have major problems in terms of matching and labour shortages. Politics is not only expensive; it is also ineffective. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the new Minister for Employment, who is about to leave the Chamber, on his mission. But I can only say that the Employment Service does not need more money. This is not the problem with Arbetsförmedlingen, but the problem is that you need efficiency and better organisation. When looking at the cuts we made in the 2019 budget, it should be remembered that it was the second largest budget line that the Public Employment Service has ever had in terms of labour market policies and interventions. Enough about that. I'm going to quote a center party Member of Parliament. He has said that time and development have run past bureaucratic colossuses such as the Employment Service. Furthermore, he has said that a single giant colossus will solve all problems in a good way is wrong. The Arbetsförmedlingen is failing its mission. The words are Emil Källström! But the same Emil Källström now gives Arbetsförmedlingen more money and new assignments. The latest assignment is to design, launch and administer the intensive year, which the Center Party wants to make its major integration effort. If it was the wrong idea before, why is it right now, that is, that a giant colossus should get more money to be involved in solving one of the greatest social problems of our time?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-213	Mr President, I would like to I can assure Elisabeth Svantesson that the vast majority of those who work with the policy area do not think they get too much money. On the contrary, they feel that they receive far too little money. Indeed, the bulk of the cuts made by the M-KD budget remains. We have been very critical of large parts of Swedish labour market policy for a long time. We have had offensive proposals to change, streamline and also reduce the scope. The main way in which this has come about is what is now going on, that is, the complete transformation of labour market policy and the organisational structure and working methods of the Employment Service that we are in the midst of right now. We are often criticised for the fact that things are moving too fast, that they are being done far too drastically and that the reforms are too large. I do not really know what Elisabeth Svantesson really criticises us for, but what we do in the budget is to give Arbetsförmedlingen some more money. For example, we are filling in the area of support and matching so that we can cope with the enormous transformation in a reasonable way so that it does not go too far over the job seekers. I can really reassure Elisabeth Svantesson that the old Employment Service will not remain, but will be fundamentally redesigned according to what we have been fairly agreed on in the alliance context should be done and have been running in Parliament for several years. That work is in progress right now. Now a small contribution is being made so that the work will be done as well, quickly and wisely as possible. But a large part of the efficiency improvements remain. It is wise to continue to make Swedish labour market policy more effective because there are still parts of it that are too expensive and too bad.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-217	Mr President, I would like to Emil Källström spent two minutes not answering the question. My question was simple: If Emil Källström one day thinks it's a giant colossus who can't handle his mission, why is Emil Källström giving new assignments on such an important issue as integration? I didn't get an answer to that question. Now Emil Källström tells me not to worry. I'm worried. I and we Moderates believe that the Public Employment Service needs to be streamlined, redesigned and reformed. But now it's a huge stress. There is an economic downturn and a rapid introduction of the Freedom of Choice Act. As far as I know, only one party in Parliament wants it, namely the Center Party. It worries me because it will be problematic. I didn't get any answers to the question. Why is the agency given a new assignment, intensive year of integration, if the agency is as poor – as Emil Källström himself has said – to carry out this type of mission?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-220	Mr President, I would like to The answer is simple. We have to be able to do several things at once. We need to speed up the integration process. The intensive year means that some of those who come to our country will be able to benefit from validation, language skills and social introduction much faster than today. That work has to start. Until a new structure comes into place, Arbetsförmedlingen is the natural home for this, just as during the alliance period when we put large parts of the integration policy on Arbetsförmedlingen because it was the part of the government authority that could handle it best here and now. This is likely to change as the structure changes. You can't think everything at the same time, Elisabeth. One cannot think that the change is going too fast and at the same time think that the agency receives too much money but that it should not be put on new tasks on it. Criticism doesn't really add up. What we are doing now is a big deal, but at the same time integration must work.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-224	Mr President, I would like to The last term of office increased the tax on petrol each year; 28 öre, 60 öre, then 24 öre to and then another 30 öre. Of course, Mr President, this was not the fault of Mr Källström. I don't want to say that in any way. What happens, however, in this parliamentary term is Mr Källström very much responsible for. Without the support of the Center Party, the government's budget bill will not pass through Parliament's chamber. It's as simple as that. More than 60 percent – or around there – of the price of petrol today consists of tax. With this budget, further increases are being made to the tax by reintroducing the so-called over-indexation of the petrol tax, which means that the tax will increase every single year for the rest of this term of office as well. My question is simple: why is it urgent for Mr Källström to make it more expensive for all those who have long distances to get back and forth to work, not least for those who live outside urban areas?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-228	Mr President, I would like to I must have been unclear in my line against Svantesson and what I said in my speech. What is happening now is that the so-called over-indexation does not break through. This is done by taking a grip that means that the revenue of the state is reduced by 900 million compared to what would otherwise have been the case. This means that there will be no tax increase other than inflation adjustment, which has taken place in every budget since 1994, at pump. It is no secret that the Center Party has been involved in this because we do not want the automatic tax increase. What happens in future budgets, no one knows, least of all Oscar Sjöstedt. They are the subject of further negotiations, but perhaps what we have presented in this budget could be some form of management. The answer is simple. We see a small – near zero – space to discreetly raise fuel taxes as the situation is now given the crown and given the uncertainty in the outside world, because we want a rural policy that sticks together and because we want rural people with us in the climate transition. It's as simple as that. The Center Party has written in Aftonbladet, and I thought the actual policy was ready on this occasion. Let me be even clearer once more. There is no tax increase on petrol or diesel next year. This is thanks to the grips taken in the budget motion.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-233	Mr President, I would like to It was someone who described the tax manoeuvre that Member Källström is talking about as digging a pit, filling it up and then pointing to the pit and noting how good you have been at filling up the pit. Let me rephrase. Will the overindexation of the petrol tax, which we removed together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, be reintroduced? Yes or no. What is the effect of the reintroduction towards the end of the term of office? Will the effect of this particular budget proposal – we forget drones in Yemen and Saudi Arabia – be that the price of petrol increases or decreases? It was a simple question – two questions, even three simple questions! Member Källström is a wise person, so he can keep many thoughts in his head at the same time. I'm convinced of that. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I would like to say that in my world there is absolutely no law of nature anywhere that the tax should be indexed – at all, neither overindexed nor indexed.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-237	Mr President, I would like to I will try to be as clear as my colleague Sjöstedt. What happens in the budget is that petrol and diesel taxes are adjusted according to inflation. That is what happened in the M-KD budget, which Mr Sjöstedt voted for a year ago. Some measure of fog curtains, that's all. The reason why we have this discussion at all is that the legislation on so-called over-indexation remains behind the budgetary motion voted through by the Swedish Democrats. It wasn't removed, it was paused. You did last year what we do now. For you, it meant 17 cents in inflation adjustment. In our case, that means 15 cents. We can blame Ingves more than anyone. The question will come back. There are a few different wills in this House for the policy area. I am absolutely convinced that it will be a drag, and those drafts tend to be on the part of the Center Party on the part of the countryside. That's how we'll be in a year, too.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-241	Mr President, I would like to Emil Källström seems both proud and satisfied. I suppose that will work with the Social Democrats in order for the Center Party to do so. The joy of increasing economic inequality and under-financing welfare is evident. The question is whether they are equally satisfied in center-controlled Sala, Lindesberg or Nordmaling, where the savings roll forward. Since Emil Källström does not seem to have taken advantage of the savings planned, I thought I would mention some of them. In Sala, the number of pupils but not the school budget is increasing. You should save the equivalent of 50 teaching services. In Örebro, the equivalent of 140 teaching services will be saved at school. In Huddinge, the equivalent of 60 children's nurses should be saved in preschool. In Lindesberg, savings of 50 million are made in schools, childcare and social services. That is equivalent to 100 posts.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-248	In Örnsköldsvik, for example, savings are planned with proposals to close smaller schools, night ice, cultural school and recreation centres. These municipalities, and many more, are thus making huge savings, and they are governed by the Center Party. These are decisions that affect people's access to welfare. Children, young people and the elderly are affected directly. Employees are forced to stress more and have less time for each individual child and each individual elderly person. 40 municipalities are estimated to increase the tax. There are more than during the financial crisis. 100 are expected to go with deficits, but the savings will only continue to roll forward. This government could have countered the savings by significantly increasing state subsidies but chose to prioritise tax cuts for the richest, to reduce employers' contributions for McDonald's and RUT companies and to have a lot of deductions – grants – for tree pruning and private cleaning in Djursholm and Danderyd. How has Emil Källström thought that the municipalities will finance welfare – through crowdfunding or?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-252	Mr President, I would like to My municipality of Örnsköldsvik is not governed by the Center Party and has no plans to close smaller schools. If you want to slip on the truth, take an example other than my own municipality of residence, because I actually have a pretty good idea of what's going on there. The Center Party takes the challenge we have at local and regional level extremely seriously. That is where the bulk of welfare challenges in the coming years are, and that is where we need to replenish with additional funds in several ways. We need to increase tax revenues at local and regional level by giving more people a job through a wise job policy. We will need to work with digitalisation and efficiency efficiency. We need to bring up productivity developments in the public sector. But it is also a question of increased state subsidies. It's obvious. The stairway that now lies with increased general state subsidies of at least 5 billion per year is the floor, nothing else. Additional supplements will be needed. There are also additional contributions already made to this budget. In total, it is just over 8 billion. What is also being done is that we are clearing some of the Left Party's old remains with special-destined subsidies that fatten administration, i.e. that you should seek, get and report, and if you have done something wrong you become liable for repayment. Small municipalities do not use this expensive and bad socialist policy at all. That's where we clean up pretty well. No one can accuse us. We are actually the main municipal party in Swedish politics right now. We're in charge of all county councils except for two. We control 70 percent of the municipalities. I know very well what my local politicians want. They want increased general government subsidies, and we will deliver that in budget after budget. What we have now laid out is the floor, nothing more. This is extremely important. But in order to finance it in the long term, you need a work policy that stays together. The Left Party will certainly present a budget option with a little more money here and now, but when you destroy for entrepreneurship and jobs, there will be no welfare either.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-258	Mr President, I would like to Emil Källström says that reducing employers' contributions for McDonald's and RUT companies is the future to secure welfare funding. I think that is a very strange interpretation. The state grants that Emil Källström is very upset about and that the Left Party got through was for example 2 billion in targeted support for elderly care so that you could hire more. They're gone now. It was so six-year-olds could learn to swim. It's gone now. So important are such issues for the Center Party. I regret that, because these state subsidies would have been needed. The 5 billion you say you have laid as a floor is considerably less than what you are investing in reducing employers' contributions for McDonalds or in reducing taxes for the high-paid in Danderyd and Djursholm, Emil Källström. The small rural municipalities cannot increase the tax rate any more. They need massive increases in state subsidies, but what is now going to happen is huge savings. In Örnsköldsvik, the Social Democrats rule with the support of the Center Party. The savings I raised come from people living in Örnsköldsvik, so maybe Emil Källström should check out what is happening at home. It seems to be needed.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-263	Mr President, I would like to It is a wonderful confidence from Ulla Andersson that she thinks she can tell me who is in charge and on what basis in the municipal council I sit in. The Center Party is not in charge. It's as simple as that.
i-5144f4af93857610-0	I said with support. ) That's not true either. The left-wing press release money from the last parliamentary term does not solve any real problems. It feeds administration and bureaucracy. Small municipalities do not use this. It is with joy that you bake this up into larger, more general initiatives that really strengthen the municipalities and mean that the funds can be used in the way you find suitable. That's how we work with efficiency and resource supplements. We will continue to do so. It will increase the overall effort for each budget that I am involved in presenting during this term of office. It is real money, unlike the money currently distributed by the Left Party, and that is what the municipalities need.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-267	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank Emil Källström for his recognition and to say that it was a nice confession. I got off a little bit here when you're talking about press release money, Emil Källström. Then I am thinking of the flood of press releases with mini-stakes that various parties included in the January cooperation have scattered recently. That's why I got off a little bit. I was thinking of reconnecting with something we talked about last spring, namely the problem of the January parties' tenancy fixation. The parties are forcing on each other, as it were, reforms for the housing market that have three things in common: the value of them can be questioned, some other party in the January agreement dislikes them and they only concern rentals. It's market rents in rental apartments, of course. There are many billions of investments in the construction subsidies that Emil Källström, according to his own statement, has condemned as ineffective hundreds of times. So we have the law of being able to imprison people who in desperation buy a rental contract black. It also concerns rentals. At the same time, fewer and fewer people with normal, stable incomes are able to enter the owned housing market. We talked about this last spring. First-time buyers are closed out in the municipality by municipality and are driven into the more expensive rental dwellings while the construction is folding. I called for reforms then, and Emil Källström promised a high pace of reform in this area. He said: Of course we will do everything we can to get reforms in place as soon as possible! In the budget, I note two things in this area. The first is that the government will gather all actors. The second is to reintroduce the suspension ceiling, albeit at a higher level. The first measure is a political rain dance. The second is a measure which, if anything, reduces the mobility of the housing market and actually makes it difficult for the owner to live in. Then my question is: how can we understand this attempt to compensate for a low pace of reform with the wrong direction?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-275	Mr President, I would like to I first got a thank-you for the confession. I guess I'll have to thank you for that. I think it is important to emphasise when others do good things. The budget that M and KD got through contained many good bets. It was defense, justice and job tax deductions. There are things that we have left in this budget and that make Sweden on the margin a little better. That's good, no matter where it comes from. I would also like to take this opportunity to deny myself responsibility for the communication planning that has been done. It's not my fault, and I'm not gonna tell you whose fault it is. But we'll have to take this with us. There are many who point out precisely what Jakob Forssmed also points out, namely the somewhat fragmented budgetary communication. As regards the housing market and changes there, the discussion will be something of a repetition from last spring. Not that much has happened during the summer. The process in addition to the budgetary documents and the various points of the January agreement, which I place my greatest hope in the area of housing policy, is the work of tax reform. I know, Jakob Forssmed knows and most people know that that work is not operational yet. That process is not under way. This will be done during the term of office – the sooner, the better. And it is completely impossible to discuss Swedish tax policy without much of the discussion being about taxes that surround housing – ownership, purchase and sale of housing. This is where a better functioning housing market needs to be put in place. We have very many common denominators here. I hope that the joint actions will also lead to a broad agreement on tax policy, including housing policy.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-280	Mr President, I would like to Yes, here is another example of this cooperation: it is someone else's fault. Now it is budgetary communication that someone else, so to speak, has to take responsibility for. I'm not really so concerned about the fragmented communication. I am more concerned about the split budget, but that is another matter. Emil Källström is basically right. I turn to Emil Källström because I know that the Center Party is committed to the issue of own ownership and that the Center Party thinks this is important. This is an issue in which we have had a common position for a long time. Emil Källström is a wise person, who thinks it is an important issue. I am absolutely convinced of this. That's why I'm a little on here. At the same time, I find it problematic to lock everything up to this tax review. Then nothing will be done in a lot of years. It's young people, first-time buyers, here and now who don't get the chance to come in. A review of the credit restrictions can go faster. You can look at the mortgage ceiling. If you are afraid to resolve the restrictions on the whole collective, you can review the possibility, as many countries in our surrounding world do, with starting loans for first-time buyers. There's a lot to do beyond taxes. It doesn't have to wait that long.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-284	Mr President, I would like to Let us put to the record that I also think Jakob Forssmed is wise. In the Riksbank Committee, of which both I and Forssmed are part, we jointly stated that an issue must go a little faster. It was a matter of cash handling. That is where the development quickly went in the wrong direction. What we did then, all the parties together, was that we agreed on those issues first and sent off a partial report. I do not think that we should assume that all issues should be locked to an end date when we start discussing taxes. If, for example, there are common pragmatic ways forward if parts of housing policy, we must be able to act on such a momentum. We're talking a little bit about the Pope's beard, given that the process isn't up yet. I hope that the process will start as soon as possible, that responsible parties will participate pragmatically in this and that we will solve a number of Sweden's problems. That's why we're here, I guess.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-288	Mr President, I would like to Since Stefan Löfven was elected in 2012, the Social Democrats have sought this cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals, so the policy of this budget is something that the Social Democrats have chosen. I guess it's just to congratulate the financial elite. You're the winner. This budget is yours. Nitlotten drew the nurses, the financially vulnerable, the sick, the children in preschool and the elderly in home care. Unfortunately, this government is not your government. Building a cohesive society requires, of course, political reforms, political will and political priorities. The fact that the objective of this budget has not been a cohesive society is very clear. A small financial elite will get it even better while the nurse's cry on dignified terms will go unheard. The day after the protests of the ministerial uprising against unreasonable working conditions, we could read the headline: High-income people tax jubilees. The nurses want a job they can do and where the body and brain hold. They want time to do their work in the way needed to meet the elderly's needs for care and care. They want reasonable working hours so that they can have a functional leisure time. There may seem to be reasonable conditions. However, in the country's retirement homes, the number of cases of illness is almost twice as high as in the rest of the labour market. In the home care service in Luleå, the employer expects the home care staff to fix important documentation in non-existent breaks while in their schedules they have neither driving nor walking times laid down. We have a pre-school uprising, a school uprising and a sub-sister uprising because of the underfunding of welfare. And because of the underfunding, too few people are able to stay in work. They're more like running away. In Sweden of the Social Democrats, women wear themselves out in welfare while high-paid and well-off men receive large tax cuts. More than 6 billion costs the tax cuts for high-income earners. All 290 municipalities and 20 regions are allowed to share 5 billion in general state grants. More important than that are not the necessary activities in health care, school and long-term care. There the employees, usually women, low-paid and with great responsibility, can continue to carry their welfare on their shoulders. Broken bodies and brains become the price they pay for taking the responsibility that politics should take. One of the main objectives of the surplus target was to cope with demographic change. They're here now, but where's the money? Well, they went to Danderyd instead. High-paid men in Danderyd and Djursholm do not have to demonstrate to be heard. They get what they want anyway from this 73-point gang. The never ending story about the underfunded welfare puts its tone-done mumble and breaks up society and cohesion. Inequality germinates like the dandelions have sprouted at home in the garden this summer. Of course there are very good in Sweden. We top many lists, and we can often be proud of that. But we also top lists that we should never top. For example, only Switzerland and Cyprus have more super-rich per capita in Europe. We are at the top of the list in terms of the worst distribution of wealth, and for decades we have increased the economic gap most among the OECD countries. In fact, in Sweden the ownership conditions are as in England during the 1600s. One in five Swedes cannot handle an unforeseen expenditure of SEK 12 000 without borrowing. But we have more dollar millionaires than the number of inhabitants in Malmö. And the tenth of the population with the largest wealth is estimated to own three quarters of the total wealth in Sweden. But we don't have a fortune tax. We don't have an inheritance tax. We have a property tax that's the same for a mansion as for a small house. We have a company tax that is incredibly low, not to mention the tax exemption under the 3:12 rules, where venture capitalists, lawyers and Ica dealers pay much less tax than a hard-working nurse or construction worker. Sweden has become the tax haven for you with a lot of money. Congratulations to you! While the contributions – I'm sorry, I mean the deductions – hail over the richest in society, you shut down dementia homes in Nordmaling. In Vindeln there is no money corresponding to 10 per cent of the budget. In Norrköping you should save 700 million and in Hudiksvall equivalent to 120 services. Sick people are forced to live without financial compensation. The Social Democrats are probably satisfied with their new bourgeois partners because, just as the Social Democrats do not want to use the tax system as such for redistribution – unless it is from low-income to high-income earners, of course. So inequality moves toward increased injustices, growing economic inequality and hopelessness instead of hope and belief in the future. The 44,000 children living in and out of families who do not even have money for the most basic, such as food, rent, toothpaste and paper towels, find that this government is not their government. The McDonalds and RUTs, on the other hand, can state that it is their government. They are now receiving 6 billion a year to employ labour which they would have hired anyway. The Center Party may make the same mistakes as they did last time, somewhat more limited though. Last time, every job cost four jobs. Maybe this time it'll be two to three jobs. A job may cost as much as two or three jobs. At the same time, welfare screams for resources. What these young people need is education – upper secondary education, vocational training. However, we now have a number of training places for the unemployed, which are at a level as in the 1950s. Madam President, I would like I'm sure you can take a different route. The development is not a natural law. Instead, we could give young people in poor neighborhoods hope and faith in the future so that they feel that here is a place for me. Here I am welcome and needed. They're betting on me, and I'm worth it. Child poverty is not a natural law. By building social security schemes that stick together and do not leave people in the lurch in the event of illness, unemployment or an accident, parents and children can have dignified economic conditions. The need for new rubber boots or a new winter overall should not lead to a gnawing worry. A cinema visit or a small holiday trip during the summer holiday should not have to remain a dream but be able to become a reality. It is possible to give future generations a planet that is habitable by investing in railways throughout the country, in public transport, in high-speed trains and in energy conversion. It is possible to rebuild fossil Sweden and build the renewable country. It is possible to make welfare embrace more people and more areas. It is possible to make it possible for welfare employees to have reasonable working conditions and good wages. In fact, it is possible to make the tax money we pay go to what they are intended for and not to the owners of Academedia and English School. It is possible to end the pursuit of profit in welfare and tax evasion. It is also possible to distribute resources fairly for the benefit of all of us. It is possible to make the best people pay so that the most deprived can get better. It is possible to build an equal Sweden. We've once been the world's most equal country – let's be it again! Economic equality is good for the development of the whole country, both socially and economically. This is a prerequisite for sustainability. In equal societies, security is greater and economic growth is higher. Even school scores and health are better. Equality between women and men has also progressed further in equal countries. Madam President, I would like However, with a policy of economic equality, we can forget this parliamentary term. In the negotiating room where the budget is drawn up, there is no desire for equality. Unfortunately, there are only representatives of the economic elite. Once again, congratulations to you in Djursholm and Danderyd! You're the winner.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-311	Madam President, I would like Ulla Andersson is critical of the government, I think you can say. Among other things, she talks about politics breaking up society. Then my question is, is this a game for the gallery? Ulla Andersson is the one who keeps the government under her arms. She can drive the government off the track and force a new political process and a possible new political direction with greater investment in health care, for example. I do not agree with the Left Party on very many issues, even if we agree at times. We do not agree on enterprise policy and how to pursue economic growth policy and so on. But together, we could be against this government continuing. We could soon achieve this in this House. One wonders a little what it says on the paper that Jonas Sjöstedt has told us that we will never see. Does it say that the government promises to pursue a certain policy and that the Left Party will have to yell at that policy during this term of office? Or is the criticism that Ulla Andersson is making here from the speaker's chair really?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-315	Madam President, I would like The Left Party abstained in the Prime Minister's vote, just as the Moderates did in 2014. Then I thought the Moderates were very right to yell at the government that existed at the time. It was their task as an opposition. I think the Left Party has the same right to yell at this government as the Moderates had at the time. And no, the Moderates and Christian Democrats with the support of the Swedish Democrats are not a government that I would advocate. Of course, however, this government must stand for its policy – that they want to increase economic inequality, under-finance welfare and leave the country fragile when the recession is about to roll in. We are not prepared for this, among other things, as a result of the Christian Democrats' and Moderates' budget which slaughtered the Employment Service and which this government largely leaves behind. I'm sorry about that. What we need to do is gather the movements that are now around the country where you cut back on welfare – nursery uprisings, teacher uprisings and preschool uprisings – and show that it is enough now. We cannot continue to have underfunded welfare. I believe that this movement will grow so strong that in the 2022 elections we will have a left-wing majority in this country, and then we will have an economic equality that is growing and a welfare that gets more resources. Until then, it's a fight.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-320	Madam President, I would like I note, however, that I have heard the Left Party say that it is prepared to use its mistrust of the government if it were to put forward proposals on new production market rents. Much can be said about this reform, but it does not break up the country, as Ulla Andersson says, the policy that the government is now pursuing. Yet she is not prepared to force a new political process with a different political direction that we really cannot know in advance what it is. It is not that it is necessarily the alternatives that Ulla Andersson points out that would stand against each other. It is just a question and a reflection on this, and then we have an answer: the Left Party does not come against the background of the policy put forward by the government to distrust this government's policy until the next elections.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-323	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has said that we are prepared to act if the government imposes restrictions on LAS or market rents. Jakob Forssmed does not believe that market rents break this country. Jakob Forssmed may be able to cope with market rents, but I am thinking of all the nurses, construction workers and pensioners who would have rent increases of several thousand a month. Their income will not rise so that they can cope with that increase in rent. I understand that Jakob Forssmed is not so concerned that people need to leave their homes, but I am deeply concerned. Market rents would throw over the lives of a great many people. Just look at the renovations that are taking place now. Just recently, we read in the newspaper about a pensioner who said that his rent would be increased by $1,000, and he and his wife could not. They're forced to move, but where? There's no housing. I think it is a major and serious social problem, and market rents would only add to it.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-327	Madam President, I would like It's economic late summer. Autumn is approaching. The sun is still looking out, but it's getting colder. Dark clouds are pulling in: trade wars between the United States and China, Brexit, escalating conflicts in the Middle East and a Europe that does not show the necessary momentum. We also see a growing national egoism challenging international collaboration. In its wake, polarization and conflict increase. The fight against poverty and climate change is made more difficult. Democracy and human rights are being pushed back. This national egoism also affects the international economy, trade and belief in the future. Expensive economic prospects, cyclically and structurally, are hitting a small, trade-dependent country like Sweden. Madam President, I would like We are now seeing a decline in employment. The Economist notes that unemployment is now increasing rapidly in Sweden. Sweden is in 22nd place, I think, in the European unemployment rate that the government until recently had as its goal that Sweden should top. Sweden pays a high price for the policy of passivity that has been pursued for a long time. People on the labour market who have been able to stand in the telephone queue of their jobs in the boom of the economy and only hear your position in the queue are now at risk of a completely broken line. It'll be quiet on the phone. There's no room for you. ..................................................... 123 000 people have been waiting illegally for specialist care or surgery because of a healthcare system that is not working. There's no time for you. 中 Sick elderly people get worse when loneliness and isolation crawl along the walls while waiting for a retirement home. There's no room for you. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like The problems are clear. The welfare staff in Kommunsverige sound the alarm about unreasonable working conditions. Municipalities are struggling with failing economies, which will worsen if the economic cycle folds. School failure is excessive and reinforces exclusion. Simple dreams – and growth – are threatened when ordinary wage earners cannot find their own home and move to the new job. The security crisis that for a long time has grown in strength has come to an end with full force. There are innocent victims of gun violence, and the state's monopoly of violence is eroded as the darkness flows out along our streets and the shadows grow longer. Madam President, I would like Sweden is still a fantastic country with great opportunities. There are wealth, hardworking people, entrepreneurship, public authorities that provide public services and stability, bright futures for many, trust, love and the solidarity and warmth of civil society. The moderate and Christian Democratic budget provided considerable resources for health care, police and defence, as well as for municipalities. Wide groups received reduced taxes on work and pensions. There were more training places and a special salary tax for older people working, as well as more retirement homes. Reforms have begun, but that is not enough. There are fundamental social functions that do not work properly, and I have often pointed out in this House how trust and warmth can then have more difficulty spreading – and how growth and business opportunities can also be adversely affected when trust declines. It can be more, me and mine than we and ours. Don't curse the darkness, light a candle! Well, you know what I'm saying? That's right! Politicians have a responsibility not to black out and fuel fear of capitalizing on it. The power of politics is to be used so that hope can grow and light can be strengthened. Confidence in the future really brings Sweden forward, but it does not happen through long declarations of government that everything will be better. Nor should the absence of focus be confused with belief in the future. Unfortunately, the budget of the January parties is too much marked by scattered reform courses that respond a little more to the needs of the partisan and a little less to the needs of society. That is not good enough, but now politics must be able to direct the searchlight to where it obscures and places its limited resources on the most urgent. Politics must be given a different direction – yes, it must be given a direction. Where the Alliance's signature was a joint analysis of society's problems and a joint elaboration of reforms to meet them, the proposals of the January parties are products that are characterized by a kind of political pandering where parties will implement policies that they may have been fighting for decades. This leads to a lack of responsibility – it is said that someone else wanted this reform, not us. This applies to military tax, free years– sorry, development time– family week, entry deduction, labour law, rental rights fixation, yes, the list can be made long. Sometimes even those who push through the most radical proposals do not take responsibility for them when they face reality. There are, of course, things that are good in the budget; there are investments in faster integration and language skills, improvements in the finances of vulnerable elderly people as proposed by the Pensions Group, increased opportunities for nurses, investments in wetlands and pollinating insects. That's very good. The ambition to make business easier so that more jobs can grow is also there. But when all these reform flares have passed out in the night, the great reforms and resources that will sort of lighten the way for health care are lacking. Reforms are now needed that provide more resources in the short term to improve primary care, increase the number of care places and provide recruitment opportunities not least in rural areas. It also needs to be provided by the new resources. We need to unleash the power of care and begin the transition to county-free healthcare. The same is true of security. It is not good enough for the courts to receive less than half of what they have requested. Rapid reactions are needed, not least for young offenders, and an effort must be made to attract back police officers who have left the profession. It is an understatement to the state that 14 experienced police officers in these times use their expertise to solve fictional crimes in reality shows instead of being lured back to the police. Social services must be strengthened and given better tools, as the police have long been calling for. Madam President, I would like We now need to bring about social reforms to prevent ill health and exclusion in the long term too, to counter the loneliness of children and the elderly and to increase the resilience to mental and physical ill-health. We must get billions of dollars in retirement homes and in the care of elderly people, not least to safeguard their health and family life. Health care, care, safety and tax relief for low-income earners and broad groups must take precedence over the abolition of military tax. Unfortunately, however, it has already become clear in the spring, Madam President, that, on the last night of the negotiations, welfare will have to stand back. With 25 billion in new resources in reform space, the government spends 60 million on elderly care. At the same time, savings on elderly care from last spring, about 300 million, are left behind. With 25 billion in reform space, the school receives a net of 100 million more. In healthcare it is somewhat better, but it is still quite low amounts. The government has 25 billion in reform space, and it is good that the investment in the municipalities that was announced remains – but there are only 580 new million to the municipalities. I think this illustrates an inability to prioritise some of the major challenges for Sweden. I don't think that's quite good enough. We were prepared to take over the leadership of Sweden. This was not the case, but we stand ready every day to take over government power. Sweden has many challenges and problems, and these will not be easy to address, regardless of government. It will take time and be difficult, but therefore special wisdom is needed to use resources even more correctly, be more accurate and choose the right areas. It is about using the limited resources at your disposal to do what is most urgent here and now. Then we can struggle closely with the social problems we see. With wise, focused and powerful reforms, we can strengthen security, welfare, work, openness, ideality and community. We can build a better society together, where politics does its part – for old and new Swedes, in all communities such as families, associations, parishes and companies. We can do it for a society in which we leave no one behind, but no one is holding back either.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-344	Madam President, I would like I reacted to what Jakob Forssmed said about the Christian Democrats being prepared every day to take over and rule this country. That means, I understand, that you are prepared to do so with the support of the Swedish Democrats, Jakob Forssmed. I thought you were talking about twilight policy, and I would like to say that it is surely the policy of the Swedish Democrats about something. In it human dignity is not so great, and people are painted out as enemies or suspect them and spread insecurity. I do not think it should be a partner for a party that claims to stand up for human dignity, but the Christian Democrats seem to have taken that path. I'm very sorry about that. But was this what Jakob Forssmed meant when he said he was ready to take over this country tomorrow?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-346	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Ulla Andersson! We have a budget in Sweden that was adopted in this House last winter. It was negotiated between the Moderates and the Christian Democrats and was adopted here. It had not been negotiated in any way with the Swedish Democrats. I think it is the task of an opposition party to be prepared every day to take over government power and try to do what it can to solve the social problems that exist. The Christian Democrats have decided to talk to all parties in the Swedish Parliament on individual issues in the committees, but we have no organised cooperation with the Swedish Democrats. We have no budget cooperation – and no planned government cooperation either, for that matter – with the Swedish Democrats.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-348	Madam President, I would like As I understand it, the leaders of the Christian Democrats have stated that they are prepared to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats on individual issues. This has opened the door to cooperation, and Jakob Forssmed knows that support for one's policy is hardly free in the long run. Jakob Forssmed says that you are prepared to work on individual issues and try to do what you can. We can take the military tax, which is a very unfair tax reduction in which the residents of Djursholm and Danderyd are protected, while in Dorotea, Nordmaling and Örnsköldsvik they pay a high price because welfare is heavily underfunded. Could the Christian Democrats be interested in working to remove the military tax from this budget? Spending money on health care and care for the elderly could be something-- this country would need it.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-351	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats will not, in our budgetary option, give priority to abolishing the military tax. Formerly, we will give priority to efforts on care for the elderly, health care and the judiciary. The tax cuts we are making will have a different tax profile, so that more people get tax relief – more people toil and drag and get to work. On this point, this is our policy and what we will go forward with. I also defend our budget process in Parliament. There is no breaking out of individual things. I think it is a good order to take things in context. It is a good order, which has served Sweden well. I am a little surprised that Ulla Andersson would like to break up the overall budgetary process we have. I do not think that would be a good order, and that is not something I am arguing for. I have already explained this to Ulla Andersson in this House: if Ulla Andersson is prepared to say that this government has exhausted its confidence and that it should be examined in this House whether the Prime Minister enjoys confidence, we can do so.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-355	Madam President, I would like The climate crisis is here and now; it is nowhere else. It does not need to be addressed anywhere else, but now. Last autumn, unfortunately, it became black and white that there will be a slaughter on environmental and climate policy when Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats are allowed to choose. Ebba Busch Thor explained this environmental slaughter by cutting down on what was fun but not necessary. The list of what Ebba Busch Thor apparently thinks is fun but not necessary can be made long. It is about money for environmental monitoring, i.e. that authorities follow the evolution of nature and notice how toxins are spread and how different species are doing. It is about the protection of the most valuable nature and the development of wetlands. This is about the clean-up of contaminated areas. It is also about environmental inspections, which is that authorities react and act against environmental crimes – this is done primarily by our county boards. When Brå announces that there are clear links between environmental crime and organised crime, the party leader of the Christian Democrats dismisses the work of prosecuting this as a good thing. I think it is truly provocative. I would like to give Jakob Forssmed the opportunity to explain how the Christian Democrats see that we can carry out environmental work in this country without our authorities being able to carry out their most fundamental tasks.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-360	Madam President, I would like I think this was a bit of a tricky interpretation of Ebba Busch Thor. Some aspects of environmental policy, for example, were specifically referred to. Not least the e-bike premium – we have been highly critical of whether it is reasonable to spend that kind of money on that kind of effort in a functioning market where sales work very well in any case. It was this type of action, in particular, which was referred to in these statements. I do not think she specifically talked about environmental monitoring in this context. I can see that there was a great deal left to pursue an offensive, powerful environmental policy in Sweden even with the changes we made. Then I think that the Green Party itself should do a homework and look at the climate class properly. This has been criticised by both the National Audit Office and the Institute of Economic Development. It may have changed now – I have not been able to read in detail what changes to climate change are proposed in this budget – but that has been ineffective. It has not worked well enough. This has not led to the emission reductions that the Green Party has hoped for. One cannot pursue an inefficient policy with taxpayers' money. Then you need to reconsider it and see if you can do things better.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-364	Madam President, I would like We have the truth, because this budget went through in Parliament and had an impact last spring. It was clear that, for example, the environmental inspections carried out by the authorities were underfunded; they were no longer able to control companies in the way they did in the past. Scientists sounded the alarm that environmental monitoring was limping. That's what actually happened. The quote from Ebba Busch Thor is a quote. She described it as you had pulled down what was fun. There are obviously reasons to evaluate and streamline climate policy, and Climate change will change based on criticism from, among other things, the Swedish National Audit Office. It's a constant job. But it does not stand to use this as an excuse to slaughter what is the basis of environmental policy. It's about wanting to do less, not different.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-367	Madam President, I would like I think it is incredibly important that we have an effective and good climate policy and environmental policy. I can see that in the amending budget you changed some of the things that happened with the moderate and Christian-democratic budget. I thought that was good. That is exactly how an amending budget should work – you see that something did not turn out exactly as it was thought and wanted it to be, and then you change it when it is time for the amending budget. We would have done the same if we had the chance. We also matched several of the changes you proposed. Our ambition was to have a more effective policy and to remove a great deal of what you are now reintroducing, which has been condemned as ineffective to achieve climate goals. We will have to come back and see who can conduct a policy that is actually capable of doing so and which can do so effectively. We have very many needs, and we cannot afford to waste tax crowns on climate policy that does not work.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-370	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. History teaches us that it was entrepreneurs who built Swedish prosperity. It was entrepreneurs who built up internationally competitive companies. This is what has made our country's journey from a poor to a rich country possible. I grew up in Småland, Markaryd, along the E4. There lies the heat pump manufacturer Nibe, who competes on the world market and sells products on five continents. I live in Lund, which is my hometown for 20 years. It boasts many old and new companies that develop the best and most modern techniques to find on this planet. It is this spirit of enterprise, which has been complemented by hard work and people who have lived according to the destinies, do your duty, demand your right, who have built and made Sweden a rich country. History teaches us that it is when companies hire and grow that we build our common welfare. It is when children see the connection between Mom and Dad going to work in the morning and there is food on the table at night that the work line is transferred from one generation to the next. It is when people stand on their own feet and support themselves that freedom flourishes. That's how we build a modern welfare country. With this historical experience, it is serious that we see a number of worrying clouds in the Swedish sky that specifically applies in Sweden. One is that bnp per capita is growing slowly and that the economy is not as productive as we want it to be. Another concern is that between 2003 and 2014, business investment in research and development has fallen by more than 20%, corresponding to 20 billion less invested annually in the latest and latest technologies. These are not just statistics. We see this, for example, when it comes to 5G technology, the next generation of mobile telephony. These developments do not take place in Europe, but in the USA and Asia. That is where the expansion of the new technology takes place. This will affect Sweden in the long term. Madam President, I would like Global competition is fierce – Sweden is still running past other countries. In the same way that Swedish companies every day are thinking about how to be better than their Danish, German or British competitor, Landn Sverige AB needs to think about how we can have better economic conditions here than in competitor countries such as the USA, Germany and the UK. Sweden, as a small, open economy on the outskirts of northern Europe, must have better economic conditions than our competitor countries. We are a small, export-dependent country. Madam President, I would like In this budget, the Liberals have pushed through a policy that is precisely about companies being able to grow and employ. If we are to have the best conditions in the world, we can no longer have the world's highest marginal tax on labour. And in order to attract skills and to enable companies to invest in research and development, we increase the deductions that exist for this particular type of employee. We reduce the transfer tax by 2.4 billion, which makes the housing market work better and thus also the labour market. We are now taking steps to make the Swedish economy more competitive. And we are taking steps in this budget to also modernise the Swedish economy. We know that the climate issue is here and now and must be resolved with political initiatives, but the new technologies and business are the basis for solving the climate issue. In the budget, we have, among other things, pushed through an electrification commission that will speed up electrification of our roads and ensure that heavy traffic can become more sustainable. Swedish companies will develop the most modern technology available to solve the climate issue. That is our political vision. Madam President, I would like I feel a great frustration that no one is dealing with social problems. Politics gets caught up in long discussions and squabbles, and it is too much about political games and too little about solving the social problems we see in Sweden today. The role of liberals in Swedish politics is to drive Sweden in a liberal direction and ensure that we can now change the policy in order to be able to deal with these problems. Sweden is a country with incredible opportunities but also with great problems. If you, like me, live in Skåne, you can't escape how the criminal gangs not only get stronger but get deeper and deeper into increasingly larger parts of Swedish society. It is about Malmö, Kristianstad and Helsingborg, to take three examples where we see how cities are plagued by the criminal gangs' progress. During the summer we have been able to see how foreign theft leagues operate quite freely, steal things in Sweden and can leave our country without the authorities having powers or money to stop the introduction of weapons and drugs or the exit of what theft leagues take with them from our country. Madam President, I would like That is why it has been important for the Liberals in this budget to stand up for and strengthen the rule of law. Last winter, this House took a decision when the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats went through, which were indeed steps in the right direction with regard to the judiciary. A lot of money was then spent mainly on the police. That is the policy we are pursuing now. Liberals pushed for this policy to continue. And it is not only the police who receive more money, but also other authorities in the judiciary. It is spent up to 4 billion during the term of office of all the central authorities of the judiciary, because we have to break the progress of the criminal gangs. Security is also about the defense. A capricious Russia increases the risk of armed conflict in our geographical neighbourhood. The political majority that existed in the Defence Committee last spring has made money available in the budget for the Defence in accordance with the majority's proposal in the Defence Committee. It is a success, not for individual political parties, but for Sweden as a country, to ensure that we can stand up for security when it blows in our environment and when Russia becomes increasingly aggressive. Madam President, I would like I think the Swedish welfare state is something to be proud of. It gives all people or at least aims to give all people the same chances of life. It's about giving people security. It's about the state being there when you sometimes need the security of the state. There are therefore few things that concern me as much as when we now see that school results are at too low levels, that the teacher shortage is growing and that the municipalities have a tough and strained economy. Hundreds of thousands of young people live under honour-related violence and oppression, and people with disabilities today lose the support and freedom to which they are entitled. That's why the Liberals in the budget prioritise the school and efforts against honour-related violence and oppression. We do so because we mean and believe that the welfare state is something we should safeguard and protect, and political priorities are needed to do so. Madam President, I would like Sweden should be the country of opportunity. It should be a country where it does not really matter where you grew up or live, if it is in southern or northern Sweden, if you have roots in another country or are born here. It should be a country where it is possible to make class trips and where it matters less where you come from and more where you are going, a society where we do not see billionaires but poverty as the problem. The biggest gap is between the one who has a job and the one who does not have a job, and that is the gap we are going to tackle. A Sweden that is the country of opportunity is a Sweden where children should have rights and where we must break the inequality that exists after all – a society that focuses on the fact that it is more important where you are going than where you come from.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-393	Madam President, I would like Mats Persson! There are no free years. There's always someone else paying. It is a truth that applied when the first free years were in place in Sweden, and it is a truth that applies now. Now the government parties and support parties are trying to repackage this a little, but the fact remains that someone should take time off from work, do something completely different, develop themselves and someone else should pay the cost. I think that is an unreasonable priority for a great many reasons. On the other hand, it does not lead to more jobs, on the contrary, and it is unreasonable at a time when we have such big problems in Sweden. The Liberals held a press conference where they spoke about what Mats Persson is now talking about: big investments in the judiciary. I think it is good, and I said it then, that you are doing it and that you are continuing on the course that we have laid down. But no one can escape 120 million of the reform space going to the police. It also presented Nyamko Sabuni, party leader of the Liberals, at the press conference. Nor can you escape, if you compare the investment in the police and the investment in free years, that the investment in free years is greater. I think this is deeply problematic and would like to ask Mats Persson if he thinks it is a reasonable priority.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-396	Madam President, I would like If we Liberals had had government power ourselves, we would not have made such a priority. But now this is a compromise for which we take responsibility. As far as the police are concerned, I think it is important to say that over the next few years there will be an increase of 3.3 billion to the police. As I said in my speech, I think it is very good that the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, which went through in Parliament at the turn of the year, had such a great deal of effort on the police and that we can now complete that effort. And I think it is good that there is a great deal of agreement in the Swedish Parliament that we need to strengthen the police. The 3.3 billion will be very useful in police operations. We listen to the criticism that exists, and we see the problems and find it incredibly worrying that other authorities also find it difficult to fulfill their mission, such as the Customs Agency. Foreign theft leagues have this summer entered Sweden and stolen boat engines in ports, made house break-ins or burglaries in holiday homes. They leave Sweden without customs having the resources to stop them. And if Customs stops them, the police don't have the resources to take care of those that Customs has stopped. That thieves and foreign theft leagues can leave our country with what they have stolen is completely unreasonable. That is why we have also given priority to customs in the budget. The overall picture and direction of the policy is to look at the entire judiciary and all the authorities. The police are, of course, a very important part, but there are also other important authorities, and the Customs Agency is one of them.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-400	Madam President, I would like I thank Mats Persson for his answer. I fully share the view that the entire judiciary must have more resources, and so did it in 2019. In 2019, only the police received more resources than the entire judiciary received in the part of the reform space presented by the government and support parties. There is nothing strange about that; I totally agree – and we will make great efforts, bigger than the government. Mats Persson can also count on that. The worrying thing is that signals are being sent to Swedish taxpayers. Do they get currency for their tax dollars? Is it reasonable when nothing seems to work with regard to security issues? It's gang crime and sex crimes, and a lot of young people get robbed on their cell phones. Is it reasonable, then, to spend money on free years instead of further strengthening the police? I think many people feel that it is completely unreasonable to set the clock in the morning, go to work and pay for others to do something they want for a year. They can pay for that on their own.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-404	Madam President, I would like I can promise Elisabeth Svantesson that I have the same ideological basic view of freedom as you have. But this is a political compromise. The January agreement included the introduction of a free year. Now it is going to be at a much lower level than what has been discussed in the debate and as proposed by the State Investigator. However, this is not something that the Liberals have driven or want to pursue, but we respect and stand up for the compromise that exists. Does that mean we don't have to do more for the judiciary? That we're getting out of jail, is it taking so much money that we can't do things in the field of justice? It doesn't take that much money. That's 200 million in the next budget. What we are going to do now and which I hope the Moderates want to participate in is to expand the judiciary and give the police and other authorities not only money but digital tools and other tools to stop criminal gangs and foreign theft leagues.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-406	Madam President, I would like Djursholm Country Club is located in Djursholm. The club is supposed to be a gathering place for the district, they say, and they see themselves as a small collective. Even if they say it's not a club for anyone. The fee for participation is so high that it rather shows how far outside the community they live. The first year costs 300 000 SEK to attend. But imagine how happy they will be there under the chandeliers and the expensive art on the walls when they can raise their crystal glass in a bowl because they are protected from the treasure. They will not have to pay military tax to health care, school, preschool and care for the elderly. The almost only progressive tax Sweden has left is removed. The members of the Djursholm Country Club can now add another success to their past, and they send a big thank you to Mats Persson and the Liberals. Yes, they will send a small thank you also to Magdalena Andersson and the Social Democrats, who have helped to make this a reality. Madam President, I would like I myself may feel that the person who is chronically ill and has 10 700 kroner before tax should have been prioritised – or the assistant nurse who runs in and out of the old, worn out and with a salary of 25 000 kroner a month. So she is forced to work a whole year to raise 300 000 SEK, and that is before tax, to pay that membership fee. That is a very strange priority. You are giving 6 000 million to those who are absolutely the best in society and 100 million to school. I can readily admit that I would never have thought of prioritising them in the Djursholm Country Club. But Mats Persson has done it, and I wonder: Why is that?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-411	Madam President, I would like It is no secret to anyone that me and Ulla Andersson have two completely different images of which Sweden we want and what we think builds Sweden strong. I rarely hear Ulla Andersson talk about the importance of companies, but we do. We know that if companies do not grow and can employ, we have no welfare. Swedish companies operate in a fierce global competition, and then Sweden cannot have the world's highest marginal tax on labour. Ingvar Carlsson noted this already in 1990, and in 2019 we are discussing it as if it were really strange that Sweden should no longer have the world's highest marginal tax on labour. Does this mean that we cannot invest in welfare at the same time? Yes, it is clear that at the same time we can invest in welfare, and that is what this budget does. It is 5 billion in general grants, and it is targeted state subsidies of a few billion. It is 8 - 9 billion that goes directly to the core of welfare, precisely to ensure that we have a welfare state that provides equal chances of life to all. It is important to be able to do both: sometimes do what must be done in the short term here and now, like investing in welfare, and at the same time build conditions for Swedish companies long-term so that they get better and so that in the long run we can get more tax revenue and a bigger cake to distribute. It is this connection between business and welfare that I see but which I rarely hear Ulla Andersson describe in her speeches.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-415	Madam President, I would like Mats Persson says that it is about which Sweden we want and that we have different pictures of it. Yeah, I really have to say that. You are spending EUR 6 000 million on reducing taxes on those who are the best placed in society, the economic elite, the residents of Djursholm and Danderyd in particular. Moreover, a large majority of them are men. At the same time, you're spending $100 million on the school. That's a pretty distorted priority. There are many who would have needed that money better, not least the teachers at school – or the sick, who today may not even receive compensation or have an average sickness benefit of SEK 10 700 per month. In what way are the conditions for companies improved if Volvo CEO receives 2 1⁄2 million in reduced tax per year? It is very difficult to understand. It doesn't exactly make people buy more Volvos, does it? Is that what you expect?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-418	Madam President, I would like We are injecting EUR 8 billion into the welfare of this budget. We do this at the same time as abolishing the military tax and ensuring that Sweden no longer has the world's highest marginal tax on labour. This means that we will build Sweden much better in the long term, because with attractive conditions companies can grow, giving more tax money to our common welfare. I have a different ideological basic view from Ulla Andersson. I do not think that wealth is the problem; I think poverty is the problem. Ulla Andersson abuses that Sweden has many billionaires, but I honestly do not see the problem. The problem is not that we have billionaires in Sweden; the problem is that we have people who are poor in Sweden. We are going to do something about that, so that's why we're shooting 8 billion into welfare to make sure that the welfare state works and provides security.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-420	Madam President, I would like I very much appreciated Mats Persson's speech. It was a good analysis and exciting to listen to. He made me think about it, and I really appreciate it. Mats Persson has inherited the 73-point agreement and now get to take responsibility for it. We have decided and put the school first, was the Liberals' message to the voters in 2018. It's not that long ago. At the time Mats Persson was upset that the government did not invest enough in the school. The government had sacrificed the school when it spent as much money on the school as on electric boat engines, I think Mats Persson said. He said the Liberals wanted to invest 6 to 7 billion more than the government at school. Now there will be 100 million for school, as I also pointed out in my speech. There will be no 6-7 billion, as the Liberals demanded. The crime tax happens to cost the state 6 to 7 billion. I am well aware of the arguments put forward by Mats Persson for abolishing the military tax. I share them in large parts; we need to reduce marginal taxes. However, I believe more in doing what the Moderates and Christian Democrats did, namely lowering government income tax broadly for 11⁄2 million wage earners, to start at that end rather than abolishing the military tax in one stroke. We don't have to talk about it anymore. I am not asking Mats Persson to share my priority in tax policy. There are 100 million to school while three times more goes to solar cell subsidies and six times more to expand the building subsidies that I think also Mats Persson considers ineffective. Please tell us how the Liberals have reasoned when it comes to school versus the big investments that take place on other things.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-424	Madam President, I would like I thank Jakob Forssmed for his questions. They're of a nice character. I will therefore try to answer them in a nice way. In this budget, we are pushing for 1 billion to be allocated to teaching assistants. It is because we see that with the lack of teachers that we have today and with the low levels of admission that exist to get into teacher education, there are not enough teachers right now. That is why we need to give priority to what makes a difference in the classroom in the short term. It is that teachers are allowed to be teachers and that the administrative tasks are done by someone else, so that the too few teachers we have can, after all, spend all their time on the students. In addition, we will ensure that those who are currently working at school but who are not yet eligible are given the opportunity to read out this competence. Then Jakob Forssmed asks why there is so little money. This is largely due to the fact that several of the major reforms that we want to implement and that we wanted to implement in opposition take time to implement. We are taking a small step in this budget by allocating money to train teachers for the introduction of ten-year primary school. So far, there is no majority in Parliament to push through a ten-year primary school. However, it is included in the January agreement that such a bill should be submitted to Parliament during this term of office. That is the factual answer to why some of the major reforms that we went forward with in opposition are not included in this budget. It is simply because they cannot be implemented from one year to another. But our political priority and the political content remain. You can trust that, Jakob Forssmed.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-427	Madam President, I would like I have a long list of criticisms of this budget. I think it's too little for elderly care, nursing homes and elderly care staff. Mats Persson spoke of 8 billion to the local government sector in a previous change of line. Basically everything was already in the moderate and Christian-democratic budget. The new investment in welfare is very small. The courts don't get enough. These are a wide range of priorities that I think should be done instead of what is happening now. I'm not asking Mats Persson to share it. However, I think that the issue of school deserves some attention, because it has been such a clear priority from the Liberals – 25 billion in reform space, and 100 million in net investment at school now. Then I understand that there is no more work to be done. There are no reforms where you can spend more money, but you have to spend it on PV subsidies, building subsidies and so on. Is that how you're supposed to understand the answer?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-429	Madam President, I would like One should understand the answer in the following way: I can take as an example one of the major reforms that we want to implement and which is about more hours of teaching, especially in mathematics because children need to get better in math. The results in mathematics are falling in Swedish school. However, it is not possible to carry out more hours of teaching, because there are no trained teachers that we can hire for this. That's the harsh reality. This problem has been reinforced in recent years with a lack of teachers combined with the fact that we have not been able to increase the search pressure and quality of those applying for teacher training. And many of the reforms that we want to implement cannot be implemented from one year to another, such as the introduction of a ten-year primary school. But Jakob Forssmed can feel confident that the Liberals will always prioritise the school because we know that a good start in life starts with learning enough in school.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-432	Madam President, I would like A decent society is built not only on crowns and coins distributed in the state budget, but on values of democracy and humanity. Sweden is not in any way vaccinated against what is happening in our surrounding world. Conservative and xenophobic forces are taking power in more and more countries around us, and they are creeping ever closer. Since the 2018 elections, a number of southern Swedish municipalities have been governed by Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats in different constellations. The results of this are frightening. In Eslöv and Trelleborg, the transparency and room for manoeuvre of the opposition are being strangled. In Staffanstorp the municipality tries to prohibit children from wearing a veil. In Hässleholm, the municipality's activities are centralised to the urban area, and access to culture is drastically reduced. In Sölvesborg the pride flag is taken down, the free art is restricted and the municipality demands a law-worshiping refugee stop. What is happening in these southern Swedish municipalities is not happening in another political reality, but is happening here and now. It is a reminder of what can happen here on a national level if the same parties get government power. We must never forget that this is the second government option. The time of decency must be now. The January agreement gave Sweden a government where solidarity has a voice, but where racism has no voice. While some Moderates and Christian Democrats, together with Swedish democrats around municipalities, close communities and turn people against each other, we do the opposite. When they try to shut people out, we add more money to the work against racism. When they centralize, we build service offices in rural areas. When they limit the space of culture, we make the cultural school available to more people and increase support for journalism throughout the country. I don't want any politicians out of scrutiny. Madam President, I would like A decent society is where you need it. This means that the police answer when you call and come when you need the basics of a legal society. More police are needed in Sweden. But that's not enough. Customs, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the courts are now being given increased resources. The fact that the prison services and our state youth homes offer a rehabilitation worthy of the name is about preventing more and new crimes from being committed and about giving people a way back. We are now giving them the conditions to be able to carry out this activity. A policy of security is a policy that prevents new crimes. And it's not a contest about who can lock up the most. A decent society fights for every kid. Children and young people who injure themselves must be given something other than a patch and a queue. The means we now provide children's and young people's psychiatry will save lives. We have all seen figures on how mental illness is increasing. Behind each number there is someone who needs support and help, and it is up to us to create the conditions for every child to feel confident in the future. Madam President, I would like A decent society stands up for the right of asylum and creates the conditions for people who have come to Sweden to become part of our country. They should be given the opportunity to learn Swedish from day one. Combining studies with parental leave is not just an investment in people, it is an investment for the whole of society. People who have come to our country should meet with opportunities and not with walls. Madam President, I would like A decent society has learned not to take democracy for granted. We know that decency can in fact be easily negotiated away.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-443	Madam President, I would like I have a very brief and simple question for Karolina Skog. Will the tax on petrol be increased or reduced next year?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-444	Madam President, I would like It would have been easier to answer this question if the communication about the budget that went through the Riksdag in December had been a little more straightforward and clear, as this consists of several stages. There is an indexation of environmental taxes, which I see all parties actually seem to be behind because it is included in budgets regardless of who presents them. There is another indexation, which we can call KPI+2, which was developed by the previous Red-Green Government. It has been more debated. It is regulated by law and is firmly established. It has not been removed from any budget – nor from the budget that Elisabeth Svantesson put forward precisely because it is regulated by law. However, several budgets have been presented in a way that reduces other taxes on petrol by the same amount. It has been done by the previous government in the last parliamentary term, it was done in the budget presented by Elisabeth Svantesson and it is done again in this budget. The basic indexation will increase petrol tax by 15 cents this year. That was 17 cents last time. How much it is depends on inflation. The CPI indexation remains and is regulated by law, but there will also be an adjustment of the tax on the corresponding sum. The tax will also be reduced by approximately 900 million.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-446	Madam President, I would like That was a short question and a long answer. I think I heard there's going to be a tax increase, or at least a cost increase on petrol, at 15 cents. I thank you for your answer and get what I thought confirmed.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-447	Madam President, I would like This corresponds to the indexation that took place in the budget that Elisabeth Svantesson presented and got through. It is an adjustment that seems to be widely supported. The Green Party thinks it's too low. CO2 tax is by far the most effective instrument we have in climate policy, and that is why we would have liked to have used it more.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-448	Madam President, I would like To begin with, to the extent that there is any doubt whatsoever about this, I would like to emphasise that in every government of which the Christian Democrats belong, racism will have no place. That's what we said. I would like to add a little bit to Elisabeth Svantesson's question, but I might have a slightly different angle. I remember what it was like last winter when the moderate and Christian-democratic budget was voted through and the mouthpiece Isabella Lövin basically tried to claim that it ran the climate summit in Poland off the track. She then pointed out how it was clear to the outside world that the Swedish Parliament voted through a budget that made it cheaper to release carbon dioxide in the middle of the climate summit. She pointed out, among other things, that we paused the extra indexation. "It was received with dismay" said Isabella Lövin. She wrote articles about the history books and the children and all this. Karolina Skog himself commented on the paused extra indexing as follows: I want to sink through the ground. .....................................................
i-80023eee2165b2ed-451	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by welcoming this clarity. I very much hope that Jakob Forssmed is fully responsible for this. That would make me and many with me in Sweden much safer. It is above all about those who suffer from racism. It is not me who is threatened by racism in Sweden, but for those who do it it would be much safer if this message really stands. I represented Sweden in another role at the December climate summit. I can really testify that it was a major topic of conversation on the ground which government Sweden would have. Many people discussed this issue. It was about what role Sweden plays in the international climate work. It was discussed mainly from the environmental movement but also from other governments who asked what would happen. Many were worried about what would happen. There was also a great deal of discussion about what we should do with the CO2 tax, because it is in this area that we are best known and an example internationally. There are many who do not really get together that Sweden talks about the CO2 tax being effective but that the issue still obviously has weak support in the Riksdag when it comes to actually using it. It is clear that the Green Party is the party that stands itself in some parts when it comes to really standing up to use this tool to the full. I'm sorry about that. We have found a reasonable compromise in this budget, but I would like to make it very clear that the Green Party would have liked to have used the CO2 tax tool to the full.
i-80023eee2165b2ed-455	Madam President, I would like I had a bad watch, and I didn't have time to ask my question. I'm sorry about that. I note that Karolina Skog herself commented that she wanted to sink through the ground with direct reference to this extra indexation, and I note that she remains here in the Parliament's pulpit and does this herself. That's how it is. It is actually a tone discussion I want to have on this. I don't really want to nail Karolina Skog to what she wrote. I understand that Karolina Skog was upset at the time because the Green Party wanted a higher carbon tax. But I'm a little surprised that you're still in the government that's doing the same thing now, but twice as much as we did. We paused for six months. You're paused for a year. I don't think it's a disaster. Obviously, Karolina Skog does not either when she is in government, because otherwise I cannot understand why they are still in government. Now it is soon a new climate summit. Are you going there? Will they react with dismay? What's going to happen? Will Isabella Lövin even go to this climate summit and tell us how you have dealt with the issue of fuel taxation, or what will happen?
i-80023eee2165b2ed-459	Madam President, I would like It was said before that I gave a long answer, but I still didn't have time to explain everything. It's actually a rather complicated issue. The tax adjustment we are now making is linked to the reduction obligation, which means that we are increasing the share of biofuels in the fuel we all buy at the pump, and that is a reform that is going very well. As biofuels are more expensive, an adjustment to the tax is simply made which is linked to the reduction obligation precisely so that biofuels are not affected. Isabella Lövin, Sweden's Climate Minister, will be proud to go to New York, and she will be able to tell you that we have now restored Swedish environmental and climate policy and put the largest climate budget ever on the board of Parliament. We have the climate work on the track again through the budget that is now presented to Parliament, and we are very proud of that.
